ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Independence Party, Óli Björn Kárason, that Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, 5th. Witchest. "Be absent in the near future. So today, the Council of the 1st Presidency will be seated on the category list in the district Teitur Björn Einarsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u2	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Council of the Left Council of the Green Testimony, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, that Ingi In Guðbrandsson, 4th. We're out of here. "I can't attend next week. Today, therefore, at Arms II, a deputy of the district's list, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, while the first reliefist on the list has announced an incursion. At the request of the president, the national government has issued an announcement based on 1 mg. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! An election to Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been called upon to discuss the election and its integrity.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u3	V.E.G. President. The European Commission has received a report on the election of Ólafur Þór Þurns Gunnarsson of Gunns as the 2nd Specialist of the Left Motive (Ourf) Green Mission in the Southwestern District. The committee has found out about the election and the votes and the votes and recommends unanimously with confirmation of the vote of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u4	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends a unanimous resolution with confirmation of Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son and considered it acceptable without a vote if no objections are made. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u5	By letter, dated May 31, 2022, President has requested this, bri. 8th cycle 1.mg. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Parliaments, to the Commission and Control Committee, are reporting on a report by the National Reexamination Actression, Action and Work Costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u6	Borist has received a letter from a social and workforce minister asking for an invitation to provide an answer for a requested application. 952, of the mutual rights to the benets of social security, from the Árnadóttir Þóra Auradóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u7	Consider: Prime Minister, secretary of finance and economics, Minister of wood, Food Minister, Foreign Minister and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u8	Mr. President. ◯Vonin just died yesterday, told Steingrímsdóttir Steingrimur's daughter, an emergency nurse, in the morning after a difficult day at the emergency room. She describes a full waiting room all day, up to 100 patients, and some 30 of them should have been elsewhere in the overcrowded wards of the hospital. In some cases, there was a waiting period of more than five hours. Soffía is among the nurses who have given up on the situation that many have described in the same way. Another quote, with permission: the last few weeks have been worse than ever in the history of the emergency room, and others are waiting to be hospitaled at the same time as they are called out of the unit's staff, told the head of the department, Hjalti Már Björnsson. Of course, this situation is not a more acceptable, educated, and modern - day nation, Mr. President. According to the National Hospital's review of financial programs for the year 20233/42/2027, the hospital's pressures on the subject of Covid and the country's increasing age are highlighted. Because of persistent stress, the hospital's owner is a great carer, and it takes effort to work on a waiting list. But let us never forget that waiting are waiting for afflicted patients to get granted medical attention. The hospital's review also says, with permission: In the following two years, it will be estimated that land management hospitals will increase by 1% next year, 2% in the next two years, and 1.3% in the remaining years, it will not be able to meet the necessary resistance required by the COVAD-19 and will be very difficult to meet the major challenges facing the hospital. Such a conclusion would be most disappointing. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether there is good reason to review financial programs in view of the emergency situation at the Land Hospital and to consider more money for the hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u9	A respectable president. While this is certainly a very important matter for health care in the country, it is claimed that having the Land Hospital increase their financial resources will solve all our problems. I don't think it's that simple, I'm afraid. I've been talking about things like hors d'you know, but I've been talking about the past few years. For example, a senator, and perhaps a member of the United States in particular, would not necessarily be willing to do what could have been easy on the lists, looking to a greater variety of resources. This was called a manipulator. The man - made problem alone will not be solved with additional resources to the land hospital. Surely we can agree on that. Here was the situation at the emergency room. I thought we agreed that the conditions at the emergency room will be solved in a way that is not the only way to improve the design but also by making sure that people who are not supposed to lie in a tunnel will be in a safe space somewhere else. To do that, we've been opening up over the past few years of space, I mention what has been done at Vifils, and I mention what has been done at Landakot. Yet, we have not even been able to reach the room to remain open there. So the funding has been there, but we haven't been able to get people to take care of the space. These are facts. Therefore, I say: I'm sure for political purposes, it's a little tempting to make this simple, to ask the secretary of finance: Can't you just force money into the problem and then disappear? But I'm sorry, it's not like that. We have, for example. on the budget of this year's used investment documents for health care of about 3 billion. It contains a variety of organizational items, cooperation with the rural groups. [[The president calls.]] It hasn't really lacked the funding at all. [[The president calls.]] There are many other places where we need to attack the root cause. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u10	Mr. President. Of course, not all problems with extra money are solved, but there is no need, and I just refer to the national hospital's own review of financial plans. The Union has not handled health care issues in the country or the government's financial affairs in the past few years. It has the highest. Ministers made from 2013, usually as secretary of finance but also as prime minister. During that time, the government groups have established a cancer cell screens without any plans for what to take over. We are now going to discuss a report on the State Department's mental - health examination, a judgment against the government. We're losing our best people because of ignorance and lack of perspective. V.E.G. A minister of finance simply needs to look at himself because his governments have not been able to solve the problem he may point out as a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u11	A respectable president. No, of course, it is true that the United States has not been entrusted with these tribunal groups of voters in recent years, otherwise the League could have been at the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of State or elsewhere, which is why the Ministry of Directors could have been the case. But voters have not trusted them, have not believed in the policy that has been introduced. In mental - health matters, this government and the ruler of the last terms, the same categories, have been in a special campaign of mental health. We too are in a special effort to build more room for medical care, and of course this will remain a real challenge because people are getting older and their demands are increasing. We have a huge increase in funding for all the major health problems. I'm here to mention, for example, only from the time I've been in the Ministry of Economics, Drugs and Medicine. We probably have about 15◯18 billion higher donations each year to buy technical drugs, better ones, better to keep people in life that is struggling with severe illness, etc. But health matters are extremely challenging, and most of them are of great challenge. A senator here notes that there will be no release from the Ministry of finance alone with increasing financial contributions but will call for great coordination in the system as a whole. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u12	A respectable president. BHM points out in the news that it is incongruous in Icelandic society and that women are severely affected. In the years that follow, a business life and an entire organization need to work together as a social team, correcting the wrong values of women's work on the public market. At the same time, one must unite in stopping a dolphin's race that may result from such correction. However, in order to succeed, public and professional understanding of the systematic injustices that are practiced in the value of women's work in public markets is necessary. This is totally in harmony with the proposal adopted by the convention of 2017 and was later approved by the nationality of correcting the ideals of the 2018 women class. Four years ago. It has, apparently, little or nothing happened. No doubt the prime minister will come here and say that something has been done. Yet, we get news from a news story, day after day, we see the situation at the Land Hospital, we see this direct fact that there is subjugation, pressures have been multiplied, and this is a direct result of a lack of nursing in the community, and we do not look at the greater equal in the pay of the concerned women class within the public. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister because the window is open now. The government missed the ball and window at the last bargain deal, but now there's a bargain coming in and that's why I want to ask the highest level. Minister: Just what will a minister do in order to promote what we have been fighting for and as a remuneration organization like BHM are speaking for in order to correct the interests of women? The situation I had within my power at the Land Hospital is obvious that little or nothing has been done. Things are worse than ever before. [[The president calls.]] What will prime minister do to promote the rightness of women's classes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The facts are that in recent years, whether the public market or the public market, the gender's pay differences have been drawn. There we find that the difference is the least in rural society, then in state and highest in general markets. This applies to both uncorrected and correct remuneration. I'll take less of that. Because she was one of those with the leadership of measuring for the equally pay-authorization I've been assigned to introduce, it is now that the equally pay witness covers more than 100,000 employees, who are noteworthyly successful. I believe that when we look at this position in which the amount of pay has been progressively extended, we can, in many respects, thank the government's action. As we look at the amount of pay left, it is my conviction that he may explain mostly with this gender labour market at any given moment. A senator makes it a subject of his inquiry. There is now a special task force group that is just assigned to the workforce and to the government, both state and rural, seeing how we can deal with it, to correct the amount of pay that is between different kinds of articles; the female class, which are strong. A senator mentions this, and another class in the community. It's a lot of work, but it's a long way back to the task force. I've also been listening to the words of BHM chairman, and I'm happy to hear that if you can get along and understand the labour market that there's a need for action, we will achieve the ultimate goal of causing you to eliminate the sex pay. We've taken many steps, and we'll see as we look at the trend between years, 10 years back in time, that evolution has been in the right direction. Of course, the ultimate goal is to eliminate gender pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u14	A respectable president. This government wasn't taking over the administration just yesterday. For five years, little or nothing has happened in the public sector. And what conditions exist today? It's a call for society. One of our major problems in the health system is not just to add financial support; it requires more money into the health system, but it needs to be handled systematically and to take the lead in leveling sexual pay within the public. This is BHM calling, and this is a nurse who writes heartrending fistulas whether it's on social media or just talking into different groups, reporting. This need to be handled with the fact that this equality is one of the biggest welfare issues. I hope five years from now the prime minister understands this appeal. [[The president calls.]] Whether we're talking about health groups or other groups of women within the government, we have to deal with this exactly. [[The president calls.]] We need a national agreement to correct sexual favors within the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u15	Mr. President. Hv. A senator doesn't have to worry that I don't understand. I understand this well, and I have just been exerting myself vigorously for the induction of the same amount of pay that results. Hv. A senator says that the government did not earn anything, but this is simply not true. It has intertwined into a whole percentage of states, and about half a percent of rural communities. He's most dwindling in the state during the last terms and years. A senator can ask himself, " Is this a coincidence? ' I say it's not a coincidence. However, in the case of health care management, since there is certainly a need to be met with groups of women, I would like less. A senator does, for she did not mention it in her inquiry, that the contracts made about changing shifting arrangements may be one of the biggest steps taken to meet these large groups of women, something that has not changed for many years before this agreement was made. Is there more to do? Yes, and that's why I quoted a group of measures I've ordered and am at work, but I also remind that health - care systems are, unfortunately, not a special problem. [[The president calls.]] There we face the same challenges that many of our neighboring countries face, and they continue to face. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u16	...to be in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u17	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. Secretary of finance as chairman of the Independence Party and the largest government party in the government. In the government covenant, the president's permission is carried out under the current water issue: ▪ They will be appointed to map out the challenges and opportunities in fishing and related branches and to assess the national benefits of fishing. On May 31 of the past year, the highest report was made. Food minister on the order of committees, a significant number, where these factors are to be mapped, and some more. But what I would like to ask is the highest. The minister of finance, the chairman of the Independence Party, is the proposed list on May 31 on the announcement of the Food Minister, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ In a fishing field, a deep feeling of injustice is common among the common people. So says the President's permission: ▪ That feeling is largely due to two factors; compression of fishing warrants and the feeling that the profit of the common resource of the people of the country is not divided in a just way. Then it goes on to say: ▪ Pronounced final products of this work include new total fishing control laws I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: Is this the set up that was seen in the government covenant? Shares at the highest. Minister of this opinion. Food Ministers that there is a deep feeling among the public about injustice in the marine ecology system and that during the season of the election, there will be a new global law on the control of fish fish, such as the highest level. In the introduction to the order of these committees, the food minister made a comment?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u18	A respectable president. I like it. A senator may be wondering if I am familiar with the fact that the fishing business is often a cause for conflict and political debate in the community. I have to know now, and I have to know that there are quite different opinions even here at the council and in the community on how to play. I remember text that was once delivered and became popular. He even said so.: In the office, the bank robber sits and laughs, as the figure shows that there are more performances today than yesterday. I think these lines of Ice Bear's Bolby Morthen say quite amazingly much about a certain vision of the seabed at the time. Well, many years later, we are still discussing whether we can do better, whether we can create a system that makes more peace. In fact, from the time the text was written and sung, I believe, and the Book of Versailles refers to them as being an enormous improvement that has made a whole nation's preparation very well. We benefit from these changes by making money from the seaside resources as a nation, which helps us to care for our shared assignments. So, yes, I have to know what a food minister has said, that there is a wide feeling of injustice, that the profit may not be divided correctly, and there is often a conflict between settlements when the food is changing. And the free supply certainly caused great tension. But we are, I think, individually, the party here at council with our answer to exactly how to play. [[The president calls.]] This is an endless balance art, but I have emphasized in my approach that we do not lose this overall vision, the overall benefits of the nation's population from fishing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u19	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The financial secretary's answer, and I suspect that we are in some way agreeing on the fact that most of the country's success has been in having the fishing system practical for the benefit of the entire population. But I'd like to reiterate the question from earlier as high as possible. The minister did not respond, whether it was the position of the government and the Independence Party that the proposed final product of this cooperation was a new universal law on the control of fish. Are we looking into an ideal period where the government plans to establish a new global law on the control of fish fish? I don't care if it's a vision of the government, because it doesn't appear in the Law of the Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u20	A respectable president. I've told the Food Minister it's a very ambitious goal, and we'll see. The work is just beginning, and it may be possible. We've been trying to get close before by saying, "Let's throw the Internet wide." We did so at the Peace Committee, where we discussed it with all sorts of warnings and books making basic changes that could have resulted in new fishing laws. I shall not rule out that there will be a conclusion in this work, the work that is now started, but that in itself is not the goal as I see it, but that we will be able to evaluate the changes that have taken place in this article in the past few years, and perhaps more time in the past, ask ourselves: " Where are we now? Where can we look forward to an opportunity for the future? If we look at the fishing report that came out in the spring of 2021 and went this way just above the park and below because of other political issues, we're pointing out a lot of opportunities for nationalisation to increase the value of the country, and I'm most observing it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u21	A respectable president. Due to the huge increases in real estate evaluations reported last week, it can be noted that the Allied Economic and Business Committee has a bill that I, along with the people's group, submitted in December and moved to the council in March to stop the growth of real estate taxes with increasing real estate evaluations. The bill rests on the principle that taxes should never go up automatically but must always be discussed by the competent authorities, which, in turn, leads to a decision made by someone or someone who has political responsibility. That's not how real estate taxes are treated. It must be fundamental that politicians are responsible for the taxes placed in homes and businesses. It's been a pleasure hearing the highest language. Minister in the last few days, where he agrees with everything or whatever it takes to make this bill work, which is trapped in a financial and business committee. That bill would have solved a lot of what we're standing in front of today because of an increase in real estate assessment. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has often discussed the good property of the households, and it is clear that it will still improve with these increases. It looks fantastic on paper, but that's as far as it goes. These increases to tens of percent are not because people's income has increased or lost their debt. This is merely because the housing market is in total turmoil, not to be expressed, and the share has changed. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of the following questions: 1st Does a minister consider a general reexamination of the tax system to eliminate the automatic connections between taxes and public pay to non-elective legislatants who depend on the whims of the market? 2. Does a minister justify an increase of tens of percent of the budget for individuals and businesses without any increase in income gains? This question is always true, but especially in today's economic situation, where inflation and growth have increased dramatically and still does not provide the end. 3. A minister would consider increasing the decrease in interest of property interest levels to meet the increased declines otherwise resulting from a significant increase in real estate assessment over the next year, in terms of the failure of many in that group to increase over the general index increases? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u22	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator that this is a matter that has been brought up now because of the big changes in real estate values that are taking place and is important to me. Not to be overlooked is the fact that the government has the power to act, and to that extent I am a little reluctant to step in front of the government, which has its own independent earnings, their own jobs, but also has its own income companies. We cannot, when we feel that the income populations are developing in an abnormal way, just choosing when we will intervene, but having to have a conversation with the local government level if the meaning is to revise this aspect specifically. It would have to be part of an overall link between state and rural income groups. It doesn't make any difference to me that home and employment are unfair to take on a huge tax burden for what's going on in the market without income being involved, and I'm generally that way. That's why I have, for example. Resisting special taxes, they have actually presented the exact same argument. The taxes are then always justified by their moderateness, etc., but they work on the basis of it the same way as above. I notice that most rural communities seem to want to follow the prices, so it alone is a burden to those who don't have the income that comes with prices at the time. In that respect, it is important that we consider this matter. I can't answer the question that came first in a different way. In some cases it is inevitable that tax stocks are dependent on the commercial whim, both sides of which are involved. [[The president calls.]] When e.g. stock markets go up, they increase funding, but when they all go down, they turn down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank the secretary of finance for the answer. It's nice to agree, since we haven't often been. In terms of putting in front of local management - it's a lot more about homes and businesses. In fact, I'm going to talk more from homes that just don't handle what lies ahead. This is not the only rise facing the houses today. There is a natural tremendous increase in housing costs, just on loans and other items, apart from inflation. It's really something that doesn't work out. The situation did not work out for very many, and it did not work out at all when this may be added. I think this conversation with the local government needs to be conducted. I'm glad some towns have talked about lowering their percentages because they know it's important, but we don't know what's gonna come out of it in itself. So it's just something. [[The president calls.]] There's something else. This doesn't have a share. [[The president calls.]] Whether you owe 80% or 90% in your house or nothing or 10%, that's the same tax. [[The president calls.]] So these are just things that need to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u24	A respectable president. Yes, I continue to believe that this can be very damaging to homes and business partners, if that is the case. On the other hand, I think it may be more pronounced in income crisis that makes it so burdensome for the person to get in trouble, and there I feel that the rural communities have a responsibility to be careful that their income system is not being carried out so that people who live in that community are going directly into trouble. Then, too, the problem is right. A senator's combined efforts to bring up a lot of weight, rising housing costs, rising fuel prices, higher taxes in the rural areas that are not going to reexamine the percentage. Despite all of this and the fact that I agree with this, however, I'm going to be on my way to taking on a little bit of responsibility for how this is played because my responsibility is so clearly at rural management.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance planned a change in the law on supporting innovation companies. According to the bill, a special tax deduction directive for research and development costs should be extended but at the same time to reduce the ratio of deduction from 35% to 30% for smaller pioneers. The reduction would be most disappointing for the Icelandic innovation environment. According to the Synod Association, the change would decrease by 14%. The gaps this will take into account for spherical companies at high levels of research and development because they don't have the income flow to meet the loss. The tenacious firm assumes that the government's support will remain predictable and meet with its budgets. It is not enough to miss the needs of the rods but also to conflict with the government's government covenant. It says, by permission of the president: Achieving the increase in reimbursement rate due to the cost of research and development is permanent. Every month, every dollar is important in the management of sceptre companies. The Ministry of Economics knows just how well. Still, it shapes a financial program that allows the ratio to be totally reduced without consultation with innovation companies. The minister then gives a bill that changes law into unnecessary, contrary to the stated objective of the Treaty to ensure that the Ministry plan is met. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if he finds it advisable to adapt the law to a financial program at a time rather than to the other. Is the Ministry of Economics to have the final words on which laws can be carried out, as shown in the subsidies of psychology services, support for the movie sector, and now support for innovation companies, or in the Ministry of finance, not adapting the plan to the needs of the law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u26	A respectable president. First, let us resolve this last question first by saying that the funds are at the General Assembly and in itself when donations have been passed to specific categories, they tread on the financial program in a certain sense. But this is a bill that exists because at the end of the year, the provisional principle came out. This system is for a full reexamination, like what? A senator knows, and a bridge had to cover the gap between the last millennium and the completion of that overall review. That's why this bill appeared. I've noticed why. A senator's main concern is the procrastination business. Here is a principle that makes this support system work in a way that larger companies, even high - profited, also have the right to apply for reimbursement for research and development projects. This happens then, getting a discount on taxes that would have slipped into the state funds as income taxes. A company as a boy. A senator apparently burns in his business, getting an injection into the business, a financial payment, despite the loss. Now in the financial and business committee, I've been in contact with the head of the Committee, who has been reviewing the comments about the case with me and has brought attention to the debate as a matter of course. A senator is especially referring to. The matter is, of course, the custody of the council, and I have said that if the council wanted to make changes in this bill until we had reached the final conclusion in the overall review, I would rather agree that we should make changes in the aspects of the matter that turn to smaller companies, the prowes, and less likely to be drawn along with the more important corporations that are stronger than enjoy at the same time, because the change that turns to them is minor, but it makes us room to respond to the conclusion of the reassessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It's my hope to the highest. The Ministers and the Economic and Business Committee agree to hold this in 35% because if we don't keep this, we're going to lose our jobs. We will also lose jobs that would otherwise have been created here in the first place. Worse yet, this would have a negative impact on equality and how easy it is for women to collect funding for their procrastinators. Why do I say that? Yes, because index and investment funds are less used in the Women's Precautions, I'm afraid. It shows the data we have. It doesn't look like sex.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u28	A respectable president. I am like always positive for listening for indications that appear during therapy, and as I said before, this case is a matter of custody at the moment and I don't believe that the Committee will do well to process indications. I'd just like to say at the end of this, that the benefits of an enormously improved support for a innovation company in this regard, i.e. Because of reimbursement in the research and development or promotion of the competitive fund, Technological Development Fund, Research Fund, I could talk about other environmental issues, all of this has created a completely new environment for this region and the results, the results far exceed my expectations from the start. We have seen new sectors come into existence, the mind industry has become a major export, and hundreds of new jobs have become available. This is an incredibly exciting scene for young people to step in on, and we will do everything we can to keep the interest there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u29	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. A food secretary for speaking to me about the situation that we all face. If nothing has to be done, it is clear that for those who produce lamb and those who produce beef, there is a complete collapse this year and the next autumn if nothing has to be done and it is fast. Also, I would like to point out that there is also a very heavy position for those who produce pork. But I'd like to thank the highest. Ministers for their reactions, setting up a group of so - called rapids, which, within a few days, bring the counsel to the minister. But in this context, I still want to remind us of our progress towards the importance of looking into the provision of carnivores in the meat industry comparable to that of the milk industry, i.e. in cooperation and cooperation. It is estimated that sheep farmers need a 40% rise in their fall ports just to stand on a plain, and the same is true of the rest of the articles, i.e. beef and pork, and it tells itself that these increases we did not just stumble into the market in the condition we are today. Inflation is on its way, and we need to look to all factors. In this context, we also need to make sure that the public can do the same, and I will introduce it in my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up this serious situation. In effect, part of the problem has already been directed to this particular channel, referred to here as this group, which is under the name of the short window of time. The group is aimed at providing suggestions and selections because of the serious situation that has come up and is to submit these proposals now June 13, so that these are only days in the group. Of course, it's all up there, and I think it's just really important that we let this job run out before I comment on individual teams in that topic. The suggestions will be available immediately next week, and then we can take a deeper discussion on this subject. But as noted in the case of a man. That's what the senator's main focus is on the challenges that result from the rise in a milestone following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Of course, the situation has become more and less likely that these elevations will resolve in the months or even the years that follow. This trend will, for example, be totally unaltered by farmers' operations, including the U.S. Most sheep and cattle farms, and thus domestic products may be greatly contracted by the next effect on food safety. It's all hanging out. But as I've said before, it's important to start this work regardless of what's available and we need to go to a general analysis, which is about the basis of the next year's revision of the livestock contract. It is a bigger project, but it cannot be avoided to look beyond this urgent problem faced by domestic production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u31	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for her excellent answers. There's a way I'd like to direct a minister, so I hope it will bring it to the group that is worth looking at. Each year, or every fall, if we watch e.g. in sheep, we can see from the top of the device, a worthy tax is laid. I think it's a good idea that in this context, we look at the meats we're discussing here that we give them a reserve of the valuable tax, which comes as tax on the manufacturer, until two years of age, where they don't pay them taxes on their taxes, but, in turn, the tax returns, as it goes. There we can see that if it did so, we would see a completely different location for these articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u32	A respectable president. I think the idea that took place. A member of the congregation suggested that the discussion be well - thought - provoking. The wildebeest may already be the task force, and I will point out that this may be part of some temporary solution. But the group is naturally put together in an effort to grasp this rapidly and carefully. There are representatives of the Food Ministry to assist, and there is special attention, not just to the manufacture gate, but to consumer prices and interests, because it is all about this chain as it is available. I think we have to keep it up, despite all this discussion, that food production in Iceland is bright because we have a lot here to do well, even though we have to overcome the challenges common to our wars. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u33	Mr. President. This is just a week left of this council, and a subcommittee of citizens' rights has come up with a subcommittee designed to review the applications received to the Congress on Civil Rights that will be handed over before the end of the spring council. No comment has been received from the Foreign Institute this time, not one, for the Subcommittee to be completed before the assembly is completed. Many weeks ago, a General and Education Committee requested that it deliver data under the U.S. Civil Rights Act, as per law by the National Institute of State, to be given to the Parliament before the assembly met after the district elections. These data have not yet been received. Among these data is the testimony of a police officer who takes two weeks to collect. It is clear, therefore, that there are no applications on the board before the end of the council. A foreign agency has now acknowledged that the reason the Agency contains these data from the council is that the council is giving people citizens the rights that the Agency is not interested in. [[The president calls.]] This has been verified. This has nothing to do with work loads, it's got nothing to do with equalness, this has to do with the National Institute of Iceland, in the shelter of the U.S.A. Minister of Justice, he believes he can direct the work of the Generals and who are granted a citizen's rights from the Council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u34	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator, of course, that this is completely unacceptable. Even if you don't want to say it here, you're tempted to use a word like being made a fool of the Allied Council. Throughout the winter, we are prepared to try everything we can to obtain the data that we truly have the right to receive and to provide the committee for years and even decades. So for this, it's a rich tradition. It's a very sad day when the day of our assembly goes on leave if we don't get to give this citizen's rights. This has often been discussed that Mr. President is acting in some way on the case, and I must call for the president of the Generals, who is the president of all of us, and this is actually the unanimous opinion of all, I think, or most members of the General and Education Committee, very contrary to categories. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u35	President. This is happening. This also happened at the time of the New Year. There was also a complaint that said this was unacceptable. There was a mention of not messing this up again. But it's been screwed up again. I would love to know if the directors of the board are going to sign this kind of practice, whether the Karina Government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir is content to change it like this, that the council is being sued about the information it is supposed to receive according to the law. I'm speechless that this is happening. This is totally ridiculous. President. Please help us get to the bottom of this matter. What's going on?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u36	The Honorable President of the Generals. Here is the call for president to act as representatives of the Commission prevent the U.S. Council of Iceland from performing its legal function. It is quite clear in the law that the National Institutes of Iceland should provide specific information to the General for the treatment of Generals on Civil Rights that are legally administered from this site and as per local custom provided from now on twice a year. The situation that exists here is not acceptable to the general council and not to the Commission at all to the credit of it. I challenge the president of the council to assist the General for these data. If you change the arrangements, you will do so by law, not by conscious determination of specific executives in the European Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u37	Mr. President. I'm going to say what's been said here, it's getting a little bit urgent to get this thing out of the way, and time is running away from us. What is involved in this case are individuals of flesh and blood who could have all hopes in the world that cases would be handled in a certain way by the Generals. It is the establishment of the European Commission, which is truly and highly deliberate by means of the highest level. Minister of Justice to prevent the members of the Council from fulfilling this legal function. Two times a year is spoken of, and things are being arranged so that they can't be done now, apparently as they are now. We've been asked many times that the President of Generalis is using this case, and I'm going to challenge him again on another trip. We can't allow this to happen to the Council. It's not just about the respect of the council. It's also about the people out there who could have legitimate expectations as usual to be able to apply to the Generals and get the possible citizenship rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u38	A respectable president. I'm a member of the General and Education Committee, and I've been involved in this case and I have to say, just as it is, as a newly arrived member of the council, I'm amazed by this attitude of the Foreign Institute. In fact, I believe this case is so growing that we should simply give a citizen's right to a law without the comments of the National Institute of Iceland. We can easily do that, we're the law, we're the ones who put the law. We now have this year, since we do not receive this blessed statement recorded at 6 C.E. par., which is an important pre-explanatory tool according to Article 6. The law on civil rights, we're supposed to submit today a bill that decides we're going to give these citizens the citizenship rights this year. There is nothing that keeps us from doing that. We're the legislature, and we're supposed to. This performance by the Minister of the Foreign Institute is below all caves. It's completely cloudy. The applicant is applying for a citizen's right to the Generals, and this is the General Assembly that provides him with a review from the Foreign Institute. [[The president calls.]] I suggest that we do it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u39	A respectable president. It's completely pre-established that this is the highest. A minister and an agency under his command will try to tell the General of the Council what to do and thus violate the 100th - year tradition and law established by the Council. It's not just against the law, it's against the Council. I just don't believe that a respectable president won't take advantage of the fact that this tradition is not broken and that this disrespect is shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u40	Mr. President. This is not the first time we speak about the reluctance of the Foreign Institute to comply with the laws and help the General with the payment of citizens' rights applications. Last May, 18th, we were standing here in the Hall of Congress, and that was when we woke up. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdir, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, brought this up. President said he'd check it out. The president said he was going to look into the matter here in a speech chair. We noted that there was not much time left. It's been three weeks since May 18. It is very short of a council, so it is due to be completed in two days. So I'd like to ask you, how did the President investigate? How did the president use his power of justice so that the people who are being paid from the General for the summer won't have to wait outside the cold? What did the president do? How did the president use himself, as he said on May 18 that he would do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u41	A respectable president. Because of this matter, I can have a certain understanding of the frustration of members of Congress, and I can become upset with the situation myself. On the other hand, there is no one's mind that there is tremendous pressures at the Foreign Institute and its employees and even though we have increased there to cope with the pressures, they are certainly working at the pace that can be won. So it is with these, like others, that they work in the order in which they are received. The second point is that we need to change this arrangement. When they managed to complete the earlier applications in the fall, I recall that the figure was there somewhere near 170 applications. The General Assembly, if I recall correctly, did 19 citizens' rights of the number of people who applied. A lot of these are applications that are only in their normal process, they take time in the system, and people finally get citizenship. I have suggested that to speed up the situation, the Commission can select from the names of the applications it has full access to to to create less work for the Agency, which is processing from dozens of applications, even in another hundred. [[The president calls.]] Then there is just the opposite. A senator that the council has every right to review the applications that it has full access to self - esteem and to legalize citizens. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u42	A respectable president. I want to say the bottom line. Minister, we have every right to make a law about this. We're not breaking the already existing law, 6th. Look, we're just not doing it at all. And as for the comments of the Foreign Institute, it's not an administration in any sense, it's not a administrative therapy to prepare a administrative decision. It's a review to prepare lawyers. They're giving a review of a bill that's about the citizens' rights interest. A foreign agency seems to put it all in one pot and stir it together, por favors, civil rights granted by the Foreign Institute and Civil Rights of Law. I challenge the Council that this is how we give it now. At the same time, I challenge the President of the Generals to direct recommendations to the Ministers and Foreign Institutes to bring these blessed narratives that are missing, so we can finish this case. I feel that I am treated by the General for disrespect on the part of the Foreign Institute of Iceland by placing both citizens' rights under their decision and by law in the same pot. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the President of the Generals again, and I hope he accepts that challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u43	Mr. President. I've lost the number of the articles, the interview I've been to in the last two weeks to correct the mistranslations and outbacks of the highest level. Minister of Justice in Foreign Affairs. But here I am again. There's still the highest. Minister of Justice up in a pit, claiming that this has a workload at the National Institute of Iceland. Now it's just sorry, so we've got it confirmed from the Foreign Institute, both written and verbal, that this has nothing to do with work loads. A foreign agency disagrees that the General Assembly is giving people the civil rights that the Foreign Institute does not want a citizen's rights. It's confirmed. This isn't my idea, even if I thought I knew this before. I would like to direct a question to a respectable president: What can the General do when the government refuses to comply with the law? The common citizens can go into all kinds of emergency procedures and other activities. What can we do? Then I'd like to remind you to the highest. A government member of this council is part of the Council. I just want to ask, do we not see any responsibility? Do we see no responsibility in such disrespect for the Council? [[The president calls.]] The conduct of the Foreign Institute is the responsibility of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u44	President. V.E.G. The minister of justice spoke earlier that he was offering it to the council or to the Subcommittee that she would somehow select names from the list of people who are reaching out for civil rights to relieve stress. I just didn't know where I was going when I heard those words. Is the Minister of Justice really suggesting that the council take some form of privileged choice of who will be granted and not? Where Are We? I thought it was the highest. A minister would be so concerned about the equality in this process. Then comes the suggestion. What happened? Like what? paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir was explaining that this did not contain a stone on stone in the foreign languages of the government. We are constantly running into the government a bit of a mix-up that is done in that group. [[The president calls.]] What the hell is going on here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u45	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say, "Who can think of a Foreign Institute working in a way to have some opinion about who the General Parliament might grant citizenship and will not waive applications or grant no review of applications approved by the Agency or its conquistancy?" I'll show it to the Fathers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u46	...says it yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u47	Right away. A senator here says that the minister is talking about choosing from candidates, I'm talking about the cooperation that could take place between the Committee and the Foreign Institute for review of applications prior to the deep opinion, because it is obvious that many of these applications will never be obtained before the council. People who are in the normal process are having their system tested. But there are a lot of people with applications that are relevant to the council, and I'm calling because that cooperation may take place to ease this work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I redirected the percentage of applications to the Generals last was high to 170, if I recall correctly, and I think the Council has given 19 citizens the right to do it. [[The president calls.]] So it was well said of a second hundred applications to those who were put full of work, which were not obtained in the sight of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u48	Mr. President. I recommend the State Department of State for a proposal for the resolution of additional agreements at the Northern Atlantic Convention on the Member States of Finland and Sweden. The proposal is to verify the terms of two additional agreements with the Northern Atlantic Treaty from April 4, 1949, on the part of the national republic of Finland, and in the case of the State of Sweden. The committee discussed the matter and attended a visitor, as mentioned in the existing committee list. However, the unusual thing in this matter is that the committee visited Helsinki on May 18, the same day as the Member States' conventions of Finland and Sweden, when the Atlantic Community was formally submitted. Of course, the committee had observed a discussion in the two countries on possible applications for participation in NATO, but it was certainly a special and historical experience for us in Finland on this day to meet with the Finnish Commission of State and the Finland's Secretary of State Haavisto Pekka. The meetings covered changes in Europe's environment as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a new threat assessment won by the Finland government, and Finland's decision to disappear from decades of military alliances and to apply for involvement in the Atlantic Union. It was very informative to review the process and the careful work that the Finns were doing, leading to their application for participation in NATO. In order to improve the suggestion, it is necessary to minimize the role of NATO. The North Atlantic Convention is the basic agreement of NATO, which makes special addition agreements with it when new states are invited to the Atlantic Community, Finland and Sweden, as stated earlier on May 18 by formal letter to the European Commission of the Atlantic Community. As a result, the Convention's Council is requested to initiate discussions and evaporation of various aspects of the Member State and to eliminate the text of the agreements. The text of additional agreements on the part of Finland and Sweden is therefore not available, but the proposal provides a template that shows how additional agreements for Member States will likely appear in accordance with previous implementation. Because of the war in Ukraine and a serious position in Europe's security, it is important that additional agreements on Finland and Sweden should be valid for the Atlantic Community as soon as possible after formal signing. Therefore, it is requested that the Council concludes government warrants for signing prior to the signing of the additional agreements. Is this a variation from the Common Treatment of National Rights and, therefore, different from the procedure under confirmation of additional contracts with earlier increases in the Atlantic Community, last due to the North Macedonian Membership in 2020 and Montenegro in 2017. At that time, a concierge proposal was made to confirm agreements after they had been signed. The Foreign Affairs Committee is aware that the same procedure is held in Norway and Denmark, i.e. that proposals for a premeditation to confirm the prospective additional agreements of Finland and Sweden have been submitted to the Norwegian and Danish Parliament. The Danish Parliament agreed with this conclusion earlier today. The Norwegian Parliament plans to complete the 16th of June. This unusual process and speed, of course, reflects the firm support of the Norwegian NATO countries at the centre of Finland and Sweden to NATO. A federal committee stresses that the North countries are the closest member states of Iceland, and together they take care of the nobility of democracy and freedom, at the very beginning of the Atlantic Community. The Committee welcomes the applications of Finland and Sweden on involvement in the Atlantic Community and stresses that their membership will increase security and stability in northern Europe during critical times. It will then be part of the Community to promote international cooperation in security and protection. Furthermore, the Committee of Finland and Sweden believes that the Atlantic Community will support the focus of what Iceland has spoken for within the Community, such as the security and defenses of the North Atlantic, climate change and security, peaceful solutions of issues, disarmament issues, and implementing the conclusions of the United Nations Security Council No. 1325, women, peace, and security. The Commission stresses that the government will take the lead in the course of the Member States as rapidly as possible. It is the ambition of the three Norwegian NATO states to be one of the first states to confirm the expected additional agreements of Finland and Sweden on involvement in the Atlantic Community. This puts close friends and cousins in agreement and at the same time puts pressure on other alliances to confirm the agreement rapidly and effectively. The committee is a member of the Committee on the matter and, above all, the committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under the heading "Apprehensible " literature, as well as" here, " w. Senators Bjarni Jónsson, Birgis Þórarinsson, Mist Einarsdóttir Einarsdótir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Jóhann Friðriksson, Logi Einarsson and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. In addition, Rafn Rapon Ólafsson, an officer of the Committee, expressed his agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u49	Mr. President. It is a joy to see how much harmony there has been with the Committee on this proposal. I think it's because the northern nations are bringing valuable help in NATO if they are involved in the Swía and find something to do, there is no question about it. We are doing this to increase the number of nations within the Community that highlight an equal and just exchange in order to prevent the wars and conflicts of the nations, and who want to protect international commitments and agreements between nations that, of course, are of particular importance to us Icelanders. Sweden and Finns are already engaged in a number of defensive activities together with the nations of NATO, although they formally followed neutrality. There is no question that these nations are largely united with other European countries in ideological affairs, and they also embrace the same baseline values mentioned in the Community Convention on Democracy and Peace. That's why we in the United States support this proposal. As I said in my previous discussion, we'd like to pay for it to be done quickly and safely. While within our ranks in the United Nations, there are certainly many sincere military opposers and peace fighters, we are in the category of high officials that Iceland is involved in international cooperation, especially with European countries. Since the establishment of the United States, the Party has fought for the full involvement of Iceland towards the European Union, and to me it is closely linked. This doesn't replace the rest. It is not enough just to be in NATO, as some European opposers may claim. These know the directors of the Baltic nations, who have placed great emphasis on both alliances. During discussions with Sweden and find it so clear that these two application nations also believe that you need both, and others are not enough. Mr. President. At present, the greatest threat to peace in Europe is the rise of Russia and its illegal invasion in Ukraine. I believe that participation in NATO guarantees the security of the nations affected by this threat. This involvement is more likely to prevent warfare, not to increase its likelihood. In other words, it is a work that contributes to peace and security in these lands. How kind, then, to encourage the approval of this council arrangement!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u50	Mr. President. Now, when we see the war in Ukraine, a Russian invasion of Ukraine, we may not be able to reflect on just a few questions. What if the Western countries had welcomed Russia into a group of democratic nations and helped them build a powerful welfare community when the iron tent fell and so managed to spread human rights and democracy in Russia? You see, it didn't work. This failed because instead the wealthy class was set free to profit from the fall of the Soviet Union. It built up a super-rich ruling class that again fed Vladimír Pútín and the people around him to build up the states of Russia today. It's not a healthy community for people who live in Russia. It's not a healthy community for the people who live near Russia. That is what we have become too many. I want to write this in the Western countries as a mistake that cost me dearly. Let us not forget that the Icelanders were among the vultures. We know each other, for example. how to trace an empty part of the venture to Russia, which was used to build up a work that could be said to have, in part, contributed to the collapse of the bank at its time here. But then we have more recent examples, e.g. The prime attorney of Iceland, Belarus, Alexander Mosjenskís, is associated with the authorities there. It has been named the president Lúkasjenkór savings, which, in turn, is called the last European dictator, and is a very successful Vladimír Pútín. Russia can drop its power over to Belarus, thus having a bad effect on the area around her, and this district attorney of Iceland seems to have helped Icelandic companies avoid the commercial pressure set by Russia in Iceland following Iceland's involvement in commercial pressure because of the invasion of Crime. You can also ask: What if Europe hadn't been as asleep as ever? It is quite clear that the way to sleep in that area has helped Vladimír Pútín to maintain power because Europe has been so dependent on buying oil and gas from there. If the elves had been much quicker to switch to renewable green energy, Pútín wouldn't have had that rope on the fairy all these years. Then, after the attack and the reinvestment of Monster 2014, the reinstatement could have been taken even harder than that. In fact, if we go back six years, to the time when Russia invaded Georgia in 2008, it is thought - provoking how it was responded. This may not be the highest political example, but let us review it when the Ukrainian scene of Euroviation in the year after the invasion of Georgia wanted to share its text with Pútín. Then they were meant to participate because they were not allowed to tread politics into the European television stadiums. This was coercion with Russian governments at the time. It also appeared that two years after the invasion of Georgia, the Atlantic Alliance adopted long - term policy of the League of Russia. The land that two years earlier had invaded Georgia, his neighboring kingdom, was a member of NATO's team, and there was no material change until 2014 when the invasion and indentation of the Crimea became apparent. I think I'll be content with Pútín and his approach. For the status of Sweden and Finland, all of us must understand the structure that is taking place at government levels, i.e. to apply for participation in NATO. Nor should we overlook the fact that Sweden and Finland are both very powerful military powers. Sweden is one of the greatest manufacturers and exports in Europe and Finland, with one of the strongest military forces in Europe and though others were searched. These are countries that for decades chose to stand outside military alliances, but the main stream of discussion was changing in both countries in a moment of instant exposure. I think the members can thank Pútín. He moved great change of mind in both countries, so today, instead of counting his interests as the best city outside the military alliance, they have applied for membership in NATO. I must say that I regret that both countries of the states who have spoken what has been explained for peaceful solutions and global disarmament. They have done so in the strength of their position outside of military alliances. And although I am convinced that the governments of the country will not stop putting that force into the jury, the conditions of the reception are likely to change, that their voices of the international bison are getting weaker. And there's regret. There are, of course, details on how the discussion was conducted in Sweden and Finland, leading to the acceptance of both parties on both sides. Critics, who are always part of a natural democratic discussion, faced much more opposition than in a normal year's journey. For decades now, lovers of peace who have opened various shores claim that they had never met one. It would have been nice to place the matter in a national law to get the confirmation of national willingness that appeared well during surveys. However, we may have the best sense of what it can be for chronic wounds that come from applying for participation in NATO without going that way. But okay. The result is based on the democratic affairs of these countries, and it is clear and clear. Finland and Sweden want to enter NATO, and NATO has a policy that opens the door of the Community to those applying. This is what is known as the President's permission, or President, in English. Although Ukraine herself has experienced it in recent years, the doors are not always wide open. We must pause only for what the discussion has been since for the prospective cohesive nations of Find and Sweden after they decided to apply, and especially how the Turkish government has shown itself. When the first news was received from the application of Finland and Sweden, it was a reminder that these were lands that fit well into the coalition, in which they conformed to the democratic baselines established by the coalition for protection. What common democracies are centered on if President Erdogan Turkey can require violations of human rights on the part of the Swedish government to pay for the accession to NATO? Erdogan insists most seriously that the people of a nation who suffer much persecution in Turkey but who have been sheltered in Sweden will be turned back to Turkey. This he stated as one of the requirements that Turk would need to see if they were not to use their right to keep Sweden and Finnum outside NATO. To demand that the Kurds who have been sheltered will be given to Turkey in exchange for votes paid by entitlement, it is only sick, and it shows the instigation of such a speaker. I would have liked to hear the stronger criticisms of other alliances. I remember, for example. not after hearing such things from the ranks of the Ministers of the Icelandic government. The Icelandic government has to take a stand against these demands of Turkey, no matter how far - fetched and far - flud and unlikely they may seem. The Icelandic government has to take a stand against this and clearly state that these sisters of our countries do not have to give a discount on their human rights standards to join this club in Iceland. I'd like to mention one of these, just at the end, where Sweden has gone to the front. The United Nations Convention on Nuclear Prohibitions, for example, is currently one year, and later this month his first member body meeting in Vienna will be held. Swedish government has the very power to stand out of military alliances - let us not forget that NATO is not just a military alliance but is able to speak a nuclear alliance - could speak quite loudly against global nuclear war. When the present government was formed, one of the goals was to agree with a law on the fact that in Swedish suspects no nuclear weapons would be located. It is one of the priorities of the government's policy, and it will be interesting to see how Swedish governments are maintaining this clear and strong policy in stress towards the Atlantic Union. The experience in this country says it's a little hard to control these matters. A Cheflavour airport is being built so that it can be home ground for B2 bombers, which are the largest and most expensive U.S. Army bombers, and are mainly designed to transport nuclear weapons between parts of the world. In connection with this, I asked the highest. Secretary of State the other day, how governments will determine that nuclear weapons would not be placed in Iceland. Then I received the answer, by permission of the president: ▪ National Security Strategy for Iceland is definitive in terms of the policy of Iceland and Iceland as peace-free for nuclear weapons, taking into account international commitments. This declared policy of Iceland has been introduced and challenged by nuclear alliances. I believe, Mr. President, that this will shine through the minister's response that only the government has no tools to make sure that such weapons are not stored here on land and not go to an airport here on land. I hope Sweden has the best quality to make the knots better so that the nuclear service does not penetrate that border. Perhaps, since I am referring to this contract, to mention that this member body meeting, which will be held at the United Nations Convention, the ban on nuclear weapons, at the end of the month, representatives of all countries have been invited, whether they have validated the contract or not, and the state can send an audience. That's what Sweden will do, but it's also gonna be Norway and Germany, countries that are within the Nuclear Alliance of NATO. But it's not going to be Iceland, and again I want to ask the Icelandic government to come all the way and to have the conversation with the state about how we can do everything in our power to overcome nuclear compromise in the world. Although the NPT treats the main weight of the NPT deal in the battle against nuclear weapons, we must place our weight on every balance, each one and every one, although it may not be compatible with the narrow nuclear defenses of NATO. We have to stand by all these contracts because if there's anything we've learned from the Russian invasion of Ukraine, it's that we need to get rid of these lethal weapons from the hands of crazy people who are not going to move. Sadly, all too often the government gives it its full resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u51	Madam President. I come up here to reiterate the support of the Group of Groups of the United States to the proposal for a second discussion and to the involvement of Sweden and Finland into the Atlantic Community. For this reason, I would like to remind you in this context that the Atlantic Union is an alliance of militarized nations, i.e. All Member States, except Iceland, have had an army and have agreed to protect itself from invasion and to build on Article 5. The North Atlantic Convention, of course, is the key to NATO, the key to the security insurance involved in the Atlantic Community. It is very important to understand the significance of this, especially for military countries in the North Atlantic. I don't have much to add here in a committee party that has been identified. I'd like to review, because here are our friends and cousins, Sweden and Finland, most likely going to the Atlantic Union will be approved by the membersal attendance I expect to see that Finland and Sweden are not limited to them. Both of these countries have had close cooperation with other countries within the Atlantic Community and, of course, here in the north for years and in this regard, it is good to review a report by Stoltenberg, former minister of the State of Norway and, in fact, the father of the current European Commission of the Atlantic Community, returned to the North Country Council with 13 legal requirements, and has always been named the report of prideenberg, in 2009. It was, in fact, a turning point in the Norwegian cooperation of defense and security, and it opened up a new possibility for the closer cooperation of countries in this field and new thinking, including In that case, Finnar and Sweden could enter the air space guard they have also done. The fact that Sweden and Finnar value their interests in this way should not really be surprising, but it is also very important to realize that what triggers these events is, of course, an invasion of Pútín in Ukraine, an invasion of independent and sovereign Europe. Of course, we as an independent and sovereign nation and democracy cannot help but support Ukraine and other countries in their situation. Another point I wanted to mention here for this reason is a very important partnership between Iceland and all the Northern or Arctic countries, and that is the Council of North Pole. From the beginning of the Arctic Council, this has been a common understanding of the eight countries involved in the absence of the north, nor can it be the scene of a arms race or war. I think it's very important to review it in this context because, of course, at that important point, we're also discussing the most important security issues. We are discussing climate, their influence on the oceans and the environment of the north, their influence on people living in the northern regions that may sometimes be forgotten, and especially on native cultures. In the Arctic Council, there has been considerable integration and agreement over the work being there, and is most vulnerable to the fact that Iceland was in the prehumanity of the Council of North Pole in 2019◯2021 and, in my opinion, was very successful at this time in establishing policy ahead of the Arctic Council. Now, as members of Congress are expected to be aware, the fine treatment of the paralytic body, it would be best not to put it that way, because it took over 2021 Russians. I'm going to come up here to describe my hope that cooperation in the northern states, the eight states of the North Pole, will be able to continue at once on the foundation it has been. I think it's more important in Iceland than many people realize and it's very important to contribute to that. It was in fact no other thing I wanted to mention here, Madam President, but the United States' support for the expansion of the Atlantic Community and the necessity that we stand by independent sovereign nations against illegal invasion wars, such as the tragic wars we now face every day in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u52	Madam President. I'll keep this short to help with the Senate, which is quite an eating case we're discussing here. I wanted to take this opportunity to move. Thank you for the way she has conducted this matter, solved it rapidly and in great solidarity and harmony, and it would be a wish that such harmony would also appear on the part of the minister of the government, who was only lacking in it, as I mentioned in a previous talk about this proposal. Then a quote from John Maynard Keynes, the well - known economist, who said: "When the facts change, I changed my mind. What do you do, sir? Or perhaps in this case, what do you do, my lady? I would have thought that under the circumstances we face in Europe and, indeed, in the world today, it would be a reason to reexamine the views of Iceland's Member States and to show the same support for their membership, as we shall now show the Swedes and Finns in their membership. But this is a historical report. It will not be overlooked. When you learned about Finland for filming at the elementary school back in the day, I remember that it was explained that in Finland there were a lot of water, they produced plenty of paper, and they weren't in NATO. Now this is changing, but Finns still makes a lot of paper, and I use this opportunity to encourage the highest. A president to use more paper here at the General Assembly because it's good for the environment. Finns plant ten trees at least for each tree which is removed for paper production. But now I'm out of business, but I'm going to give you one other issue that's totally out there, but I'm gonna do it because it's in some weird way involved in this discussion about NATO, and that's European Union. The European Union has nothing to do with NATO's involvement. The European Union's defense stand has not been particularly successful in recent decades. For some 20 years, the relationship has talked about the importance of creating a common European army. This was always small in view when European member countries in the United States pointed out that the European Union was interested in warfare, and it was sometimes even reportedly that with EU involvement, Iceland is joining in some European army, but now all of a sudden it is referred to as one of the reasons why we need to join the EU, that they are taking up their own military service. The key point is that these issues are totally unrelated, aside from the remarkable news that is now entering Sweden and finding in NATO, and thus sharing in all the northern nations in that defense alliance. There is reason to rejoice and congratulate our neighbors and friends and cousins on this development, and I do not doubt that both countries will become very important and useful partners and allies in NATO. Finally, I thank the State Department and, indeed, the Congress for the way this case has been conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u53	A respectable president. I come up here to make our firm support of this proposal as soon as I sincerely want to thank the chairman of the Committee and the entire Commission for their excellent work, monotonousness and unambiguous solidarity in this matter. That's exactly what matters to me is that we send out this tone when we talk about something as important as this, when our friends have taken the stand of joining the NATO border. And because this has been said about peacemakers, I'd like to emphasize that in the Revolution, there are all peace lovers and including the rest of the city. Therefore, a firm support for the fact that the Icelanders are full participants in NATO. We are proud that we had seen prominent men in our time, in 1949, who, in my opinion, did not allow terror to make socialist distinctions from being a member and sitting at the table from the beginning of this, in my opinion, the Peace union of NATO. At that time, there was also a difference between the two groups. Comments that we may be missing a part of our sovereignty. What has happened? On the contrary, it has strengthened our sovereignty, with a full participation in NATO, by an opinion in NATO, by sharing in what we can do, as an armyless nation to which we are to remain, of course. We can contribute a number of things through civil service, civil work, whether through flight guidance or simply by civilian contributions, as we have shown over the years. Following the invasion of Russia in Ukraine, there is an entirely new political situation, and we can see this from a reaction to the North countries on which this proposal is going, which is very clear. So Danes have agreed on, and perhaps with even more things than many, including In this house, talking and assuming, it was 67% Dana who participated in the national law to enter full protection work in the European Union. Norway is called after further discussions on participation in EU Member States. People are discussing the European Union, normal, I'll get to it afterwards. It is not unusual for e.g. The head of the Central Party, a firm opponent of the European Union and our participation there, did not appreciate our linking with the United States. cooperation with the EU to strengthen and strengthen defenses. But I've described it before and told it before why I think it is so, and I'm gonna come in on it later. What have the Norwegian also done besides discussing further in the political field of participation in the EU? They have also taken steps toward strengthening their defenses, deepening cooperation with the United States in order to ensure, as they have said themselves, and can be read on the Norwegian, their sovereign, and their independence websites and ensure safety. None of this has been done here. What are we doing here? We are ensuring and participating in the minimal progress that Iceland and I can do when it comes to the invasion of Ukraine and its consequences, supporting our friends, Swía, and Finn, who are now applying for our membership in NATO. But what further initiative have we taken to strengthen our defenses? How have we been involved in further deepening our discussion of how we can trust our defenses here at home? I mention Internet attacks and extending to form the defense agreement with the United States in order to reach more stings than these traditional stings, which have been determined over the years and, of course, were shaped by the environment of 1951. Although he has been updated to some extent, I do not consider him to be the kind of person we see today. I would like to have seen the initiative on the part of the government to have a conversation with NATO about how we can expand our civil help and contributions within NATO, as well as how we can expand our defense agreement and how we can at least expand at least. has a discussion on how and whether membership in the EU can also trust our defenses of Iceland. But, of course, it's sensitive at the government table to discuss strengthening Iceland's defenses. I realize that it may not be appropriate for the government leadership party that our defenses will be strengthened and strengthened both through NATO and through the United States, when the direction of the left green is the way it is. I understand that it is delicate, but it is sobering to think that in the EU, all other countries are somehow strengthening their defenses by increasing communication and, especially, targeted cooperation within the EU, within the NATO or in the two - side agreements made with the Norwegian people. I would have chosen that initiative to come from the government. I would also like to see that our synopsis can be viewed as a means of strengthening our defenses. I would like to point out that at the time, after the fall of the defense team, a risk-benefit report was conducted which included a risk assessment report. stated that cooperation with the EU would strengthen our level of protection and security. In this cross-cutting assessment report, which the government made after the elimination of the defense team, the cooperation of Iceland with the European Union was specifically recommended, with risk factors for the country, similar to those in the EU safety policy. These references also apply today, and if anything is, they are much more relevant today. The vast majority of the North and European neighboring countries of Russia realize exactly this exact importance of the Union for democracy and human rights, which was originally founded to maintain peace. It was founded even. For the motivation and motivation of the United States, who said: NATO alone is not enough; nor must we see an alliance in Europe, where they take a little over things themselves to ensure peace. Then comes the natural peace even. Through economic cooperation, opening markets and more. But the basis for the European Union is to preserve peace in a fairy who knows far too much and tragic consequences of war. NATO and EU are in my mind two aspects of the same peace coin. This risk assessment report at the time showed that our safety would benefit from more active participation in both the EU and the national defence activities there. I was shocked earlier, and I reminded them that the major opponents of the European Union in their time made a big joke that the European Union was looking for an army. It was then a warning against going to the European Union because military cooperation had also become manifest. That's what they said at the council. It's been said at meetings and places. The country is now decommissioned. Clearly, people feel uncomfortable discussing these aspects of the European Union, not only the economic and social aspects, but also what it means for us to help protect these values that we believe are also an attack on in Ukraine. The attack on Ukraine was mainly an attack on the people of Ukraine, and this is a disaster for them, and we are experiencing a violation of human rights on the part of Russia every day. But it was also an attack on our value of freedom, peace, democracy, and human rights. Russia's neighbors respond to such an attack by turning to both NATO and the European Union. The Polish did so at the time with good results, as did the very clear attitude and response of the Baltic States who wanted to go that way. What I'm speaking for also in this matter, which is extremely important, and it's a pleasure to be here in the councilroom and to talk about supporting the entrance of Find and Swía in NATO, is that this proposal, at the same time, shows that there is no initiative on the part of the Icelandic government to take steps to further our defenses in Iceland and further strengthen our position in Europe. I am convinced that the situation of a small nation like Iceland is stronger in a strong society and an alliance of nations than it is to be alone. I think we just need to find out what movement is going on in Europe and at least get an opportunity, as we have very modestly said - we can be totally critical of ourselves when we don't say it right here and now, and we should apply for it right now. I'd like that. But I am aware of the situation in which the government is in, and I am also aware that we need to contribute to a further discussion of what the European Union and its involvement are. Therefore, we simply ask for a report, and it doesn't have to take long. Here's the highest. The minister of the environment in the hall, and I would like to commend him for the very thing, having promoted a so - called green environmental report, a very clear document that did not take long to work. Opportunities, benefits, and conditions in the environment in a so - called green report. We are simply making this point: Why can't we go and take the first step in evaluating what it means for an Icelandic nation to have a chance to become a member of the European Union? What does it not only mean in economic and social terms but also protectably and safely? The Danians have answered to some extent by wanting to become full - time participants. Russia's neighboring countries have made this very clear by wanting to be full of participants in both areas. I think we're supposed to follow a trail similar to that we're supposed to take it seriously, face it here at home by stepping forward, not just putting the pot lid on top of the discussion, the pot lid on the top of the position as it is today. In fact, I think it's a big deal for us Icelanders if we're not moving on one or any of 'cause the government is put together as it is right now. We know there's a sensitivity at the government table, as I used to know. I am convinced that we had seen more steps taken in defense, to form a partnership with the United States and NATO, if the combination of the government wasn't the way it is. It's just that way. To say that, I want to emphasize that there are challenges ahead. It's a challenge for us to move things in behalf of democracy, in behalf of freedom, in behalf of human rights and in behalf of our country's defenses. Then we need to continue to examine and evaluate the best ways for ourselves Icelanders in the field of defense and security and the best ways for us Icelanders in the economic and commercial sectors, the environment, the resources and to ensure civil rights. All of this we have to go over, but there's nothing to do with the government, except for this important proposal we're dealing with, this very special proposal that is here to strongly support the applications of Finn and Swaziy on membership in NATO. This application is certainly supported by restoration, for it is for the sake of peace, freedom, and democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u54	A respectable president. I believe this decision to establish an additional agreement with the Northern Atlantic Convention on Finland and Sweden's membership is a very important step to support the Atlantic Alliance, NATO. I also claim that both of these countries are seeking involvement in this important alliance. It will increase Norwegian cooperation in every way in defenses and the Norwegian dimension will penetrate the Atlantic Alliance. This will probably be approved by the Council, which is a cause for rejoicing. I'd like to remind you that this is the North Atlantic deal that's under here. Admittedly, much more part of Europe is there than there are two countries west of the sea, the United States, and Canada, with the United States as far as possible. In many ways, this is a contract where the United States guarantees safety in Europe. This also shows the importance of the defense agreement for us in every way. An example of the importance of the United States in this cooperation is that a state that is invited to send a confirmatory document to the U.S. government of America, to which it is absolutely possible. True, Europe's nations have been referred to as the importance of the European Union's security work, which is a cause for joy, but it has just been a problem of how small European countries have contributed. They haven't been on the 2% rule, i.e. Set 2% of its national spending for defense, and this has mainly been a criticism of Germany, the longest of Europe's countries. But it is hoped that something will change now following the invasion of Ukraine, and it will soon be replaced by other countries. But this is primarily a deal with the North Atlantic. And, yes, it is a matter of importance in the European Union, but it must not be overlooked that the United States is the longest state, and that is the ones responsible for our safety. It can also be pointed out that 5. G., all for one and all, that the attack on one state is an attack on all countries, including Iceland, has only once been activated in history, and after the attack on September 11, 2001. It was an attack on America. It was not an attack on Europe. We all know that story and how to react, and the Americans left Afghanistan after 20 years in that country. There is no need for a host of countries, Sweden and Finland. These are our great friends' countries and our closest member states of Iceland. Sweden, independent of state, has a powerful military force that has since 1814 since the Napoléon Wars, the powerful military industry, produced jets, submarines, and all kinds of weapons. Finns have a very powerful army, too. I saw some figures in a story that they could call in a crowd of 200,000. I also heard in the news that there is not going to be some military fortress in NATO's roads at any rate. They now have this insurance policy with NATO following the Russian attack in Ukraine. I think that attack will change the entire landscape in terms of national security, and we should hope that this case of the Turks who have been opposed to the involvement of these states by the Kurdur government of Finland and Sweden will soon be solved. Turkey is not in the European Union either. What I find interesting about the development of the defense agreement and the partnership with NATO are the Internet protection. Now we are living in the era of the information revolution, and I believe that this work has begun to promote Internet protection, and there may be a possibility that Iceland itself can contribute to an armyless nation. But I'm sure it's where Iceland's defenses are very important now and in the future. Then there should even be an added addition to the defense agreement, and I know that there is someone working in NATO on this thing that I don't know quite well enough. I would like to read from the opening opening opening of the Atlantic Convention, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ The parties of this contract reevaluate their devotion to the goals and principles of the United Nations covenant and their desire to live at peace with all nations and governments. They are determined to preserve the freedom of their nations, their common heritage and culture, on the principles of democracy, individual freedom, law, and right. They endeavor to promote balance and prosperity in the North Atlantic. They have decided to join together for common defenses and for a period of peace and security. So they've agreed on this North Atlantic deal. I don't think there's any reason to have this much further. The people's party welcomes this involvement, and we support it wholeheartedly. We believe this to show that the North American dimension will increase within the Atlantic Community and it will be informative to monitor the cooperation of the Northern countries in safety and protection within the NATO and here in the North Atlantic. I would like to point out that the northern countries are from Greenland, Canada, and Finland, which have a 1,300 km border on Russia. I suppose this is going to be an agreement, and it will be exciting to see the future with these powerful nations within the Atlantic Community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u55	A respectable president. Of course, I'm in favor of a council proposal. Minister of the Foreign Ministers of Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir Golfjord about confirmation of the presence of the Republic of Finland and the kingdom of Sweden in the Atlantic Community. Of course, this is a big deal, and we are living in history. Today, our friends, two of our closest associates in our Norwegian family, are entering the world's greatest defense alliance. This, however, is not good. This is because things have changed very quickly, which also does not occur because of anything. Things have naturally changed rapidly after Pútín took the step that everyone was hoping he would not step in, attacking in Ukraine. We are fortunate that the people who preceded us made sure that Iceland was founded on the Atlantic Alliance, but we also have a two - sided defense contract with the United States. Of course, it is much better when we feel no threat and when the discussion is small because it is peaceful in the world. At times, though, we may sense the importance of having strong defenses. It's important to note that in recent years we've never put more on the Union than we have in the past, and it's also been very long since Iceland's defenses have been so much put on the same level as in recent years. I know that very well about my former jobs, and that was done in my day. In terms of what we've been doing here, we've also been talking about the steps, for two years, taking part in a partnership that we haven't done before. This was a very sensible step in cooperation with both the Estonian, Helsinki, and NATO when it comes to such things. On the contrary, there has never been a greater part of the participation in the United States. I hope that the issue of security and defence will be higher here in Iceland because it has something to do with all of us. The serious thing is to see that there is so much evidence that history repeats itself again. Although I know that many people have. Senators would like to walk in the European Union then, I would not be linking these issues together, both of which have no material evidence, but on top of the above, the European Union has not done what is needed to bring about this matter. What am I referring to there? I'm specifically referring to Nord Stream 2 because it's a long way apart and there's nothing to tell but support in this, the European Union, the largest European Union, and the European Union certainly did nothing to stop it, it's a long way to stop it, it's a long way, it's nothing to tell you anything but support it, it's working to make itself dependent on Pútín and his economic activities when it comes to energy. Fortunately, these new gas pipes seem to have been canceled, enough. But I have to admit that in my day as a minister of foreign affairs, I often asked the critical question, How would anyone think of taking this journey? There wasn't much answers. But the point of the matter is that it is important now that everyone, not only in the northern nations, but all nations, who have the same values spoken in one voice and who give the same message to those who do not share the same values and have shown it by last attacking in Ukraine, the above, by attacking into Crime and Georgia, that we stay close together and do not let such things pass because this is the end of our lives here. I mention this gas pipeline and how Europe has got into this position, which is just horrible, because at the same time that humans have joined together in a highly forced operation against the Russian government, the funds to Russia are still pumping and as far as I know, they've never been more out of increasing energy prices for the war. It also tells us how important it is for us Icelanders, like others, to view energy as national security. Now that the world's nations are fighting high power prices, we feel less of it than other nations because we've had one and two energy exchanges, both with electricity and then with hot water. But better, if it's enough. It is not only economic wisdom, it is not only wise because of climate, environment, and competitiveness but also national security issues. I'm not going to spend a lot of words on it, but now that we're supposed to give a very clear message - which I hope everyone is asleep. Senators and I think most people who have not listened have done so - that we support our friends in Finland and Sweden on this decision, I don't know how men link these matters together and can get to the point of linking this to the possible involvement of Iceland in the European Union. I think it's always important to discuss involvement just to make it clear that it's unwise for us to walk in there, but if there's any evidence, that's definitely not because of the security and defense interest. A respectable president. I'm finally going to say that I think it really matters in this discussion that we're giving the message that we all agree that we admire the hero in Ukraine who's fighting the odds. Even if it went well, let's face it, we'll figure it out, and we'll be totally dependent on Western countries as much as possible to support them. Let us also bear in mind that these heroes, the Ukrainian people, are not just fighting for their lives and country. They're fighting for us, too. All nations, especially those nearby, naturally say that they are deeply concerned if Ukraine falls, they will be next. I think it's safe to say about the person who comes up with the idea of walking in the way that Pútín has made it really possible. You wanted the world to be completely different from what it is, but the world is the way it is. We, who are so fortunate, a smaller part of the world's population, to live in democracy, human rights, and the values we feel we must take care of. Of course, we must be in a very strong defense alliance, and we Icelanders must have these strong defenses through the defence agreement against the United States. We must support the people who are fighting for their lives and freedom. I'll take it that if we accept this proposal from the highest level. Foreign Minister, we are on our way to give a clear message about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u56	Madam President. I just wanted to thank you at the end of this discussion. Foreign Affairs for their jobs. She has done this work well, and I thank you for the efficiency and scope shown by the council. This is in my mind a very large day, to resolve the matter here hopefully in a very positive way in a moment, in which we are showing in action, not just in word, but in table, condent and support to our greatest friend-and-ass states who have made their decision in their own way to be members of the world's most powerful security and defense alliance. It is a good thing to be among the first to do so and to resolve the matter here on the same day that Denmark does the same. It is hoped that the matter will be settled successfully and that Finland and Sweden will become as soon as possible to the Atlantic Alliance. While that matter is at present at a very delicate stage, you cannot help but hope and virtually demand that it be fulfilled successfully. In my opinion, Finnum and Sweden had a fine record of reaching this conclusion. This may not be what the Russian president saw to it that the Atlantic Union would grow and expand, and it would join the coalition in a highly elevated state when it comes to upholding and living by the values that seem to threaten Russia's president. That's in my mind, too, a very positive message. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the Committee for a job well done, and I can't help saying that I'm looking forward to a vote right after this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u57	Madam President. Here, earlier today, it was a bad idea. paritaprevir Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinasdóttir of Gunnarsdóttir to a position once again in the General Education Committee, that the National Institute of Education refuses to submit information to the General Assembly which would be needed to replace requirements for citizenship. She asked the president what the General could do when the Ministry of Justice refuses to comply with the law. I asked the president of May 18, after the president said he was going to check it out, how did the president investigate it? How did President handle the Ministry? What did the president of the United States do in order to stop these people from becoming Icelanders, as if they were required by law? We didn't get any answers, Madam President, and that's why I'd like to reiterate this request: What did the President do? What will the president do, and what has the president done to remedy this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u58	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, requesting answers from the highest level. President. I'd also like to point out that as a dog. paritaprevir Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinasdótttir Gunnarsdóttir said earlier today that it has been very clear why the Foreign Institute of England refuses to present its council requests for civil rights. It has been shown in a written statement from the National Institute of Iceland that it is because the council is not sensitive to what the Foreign Institute says about what it feels right to do when it comes to citizens' rights. It's a very clear, respectable president. A foreign agency is going to stop working with the council because the U.S. National Institute is not at odds with decisions made by the Council on Civil Rights, the council that has legalized the law to provide citizens' rights. Of course, it is an unscrupulous, respectable president that the Ministry of Justice feels that they can be raised because they disagree with the decisions made by the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u59	Madam President. We here vote for Sweden and Finland's application to the Atlantic Alliance. I'd like to make a decision here that I have declared the clear stand of the government on this application based on the democratic conclusion of the councils of Sweden and Finland, nations that are among our closest friends in this world. The prime minister of Iceland, Norway, and Denmark, all within the Community, publicly declared it when these applications were submitted that we would pay for them in our countries. I have further described this view of my meetings with the presiding ministers of Sweden and Finland. So I will support these proposals that are about to be applied by these countries to the Atlantic Community and, in fact, I believe that these countries will work very closely with other states of the Atlantic Community, where we Iceland have spoken very clearly for peaceful solutions and disarmament. I believe that there the Norwegian states will speak in a very clear voice if it is understood to be the foreign policy of all these countries. Most importantly, this is the democratic outcome of our closest friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u60	Madam President. All of the members of the United States Group, all members of the United States, support this proposal. Especially do we rejoice that these good neighbors are being added to the alliance. They are well - known by stressing values similar to those of the Icelanders in the field of peace, democracy, and human rights, and I believe that the organization is particularly strengthened by the use of more terms in NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u61	A respectable president. During the time of world calamity, things change. Therefore, our good friends and neighbors, Finnar and Sweden, have made a decision to join us and other peoples in NATO. Of course, our forwardness supports it. We welcome them to serve in NATO, which will strengthen the Norwegian dimension of the Atlantic Alliance. I've presented these views to my sisters, and the last time I've had a meeting with a local minister in Sweden last week, where this case is more and less planned until it's over. I just want to come up here and say I'm really happy that Swedes and Finnar made that decision. Our respect for independence is their right. We can receive it especially well, and we do so today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u62	Madam President. It is clear to Find and Sweden to apply for participation in NATO. NATO has the decisive policy that the door of the Community will open its candidate countries. I respect the national autonomy, but I don't support the enlargement of military alliances, so I won't vote with this proposal. But with Porta's council, there are some opinions that allow me to assume that we'll be paraphrased. I can't refuse to mention here the outrageous request by President Erdogans Turkey to the Kurdar, who have been sheltered in Sweden, to be returned to Turkey in exchange for votes paid by the membership attendance. We cannot ignore such gross human rights requirements. The Icelandic government must take a clear stand against these requirements of Turkey and thus stand by the basic human rights that we share with our neighbors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u63	A respectable president. Here we vote on the Swedish independent decision and find that they took on the foundation of their sovereignty to join the NATO Peace and Defense union. The restoration is a strong support for the application of these friends. At the same time, I'd like to encourage the highest. Ministers of Foreign Affairs, as well as prime minister, to do all within its power to support as much as possible in Moldova and Georgia in their efforts to become a member of NATO. I would also like to agree with the words that have fallen upon Erdogan and Turkey, from the minister of foreign affairs, and from others here spoken of Turkey. It is important to show firmness to the preposterous requirements established by President Erdogan Turkeys in connection with the Swea and Find Member States. In support of this proposal, we see that this is the Swía's answer and find in defending its sovereignty. [[The president calls.]] They consider their interests to be better paid in cooperation and cooperation with others, such as in NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u64	Madam President. I'll be up here first and last to thank the highest. The Foreign Affairs Committee for her work and the scope shown by the Parliament in handling this matter as well as the effective treatments this case has received here. Those who hoped by their attack into the sovereign state to weaken the cooperation of our friends and of our alliances, the weakened Atlantic Union probably did not see that one of the most powerful states of our best friends and alliances when it comes to human rights, a strong democratic tradition and the values we are in general would now wish to become members of the Atlantic Alliance. It's happened. Then we will respect and warmly welcome them into the most powerful defense and security force in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u65	A respectable president. We in the people's Gang support the mind of taking steps between Find and Sweden to the Atlantic Alliance. The Atlantic Community is a defense alliance and confirmation of it is simply the entrance to Find. The Finns have a national boundaries of Russia and have been independent of countries for decades. Sweden has been independent from the 1814 Napoléon Wars. Why are they applying? Yes, because of the Ukraine invasion. They consider their security best spent in the defense of the Atlantic Community to ensure democracy, individual freedom, and their freedom, law and order, as stated in the opening words of the Atlantic Convention. We believe this is a very important deal, and we believe this will strengthen the Norwegian dimension and the national defence cooperation as shown here. It will be exciting to see how the priorities of the Northern countries on human rights and human kindness will be expressed by the Eastern Union in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u66	A respectable president. This is an historic occasion when we vote for a proposal at the highest level. Secretary of state. I believe it is of utmost importance that we send a clear message to these close friends of ours about solidarity from the Allied Parliament. It is sad to see that one member nation, in particular under the leadership of Erdogan, acts in a way that they do, and the more important that other nations, especially friendly peoples, find and Swedish peoples as we are, give a very clear signal that there is a solid solidarity in supporting them into the Atlantic Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u67	A respectable president. This in itself is a historical vote and a major milestone in foreign affairs that these close friends of us see reason to reach out for membership. To me, it is more than probably a matter of sharing and respecting their willingness to join the Atlantic Alliance. I can only see that it is very supportive here at the council. But these are, as I say, a major turning point that we must at the same time take as a basis for asking whether we are in all respects responding and evaluating the changes that will lead to these historical events. This is what awaits us. Until now, we have shown our support primarily in action and solidarity, but we must also let these events all cause us to look into them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u68	Madam President. We are living in a time of history, and this is a powerful vote today. This is a vote in which we support our friends' countries for safety in the North, for the Baltic Sea, and for the beginning of a new era in the cooperation of these nations that are in defense and security and other areas. I am truly happy to be here in this hall to vote on this important and large matter. It's time to celebrate this day and what it is creating.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u69	Madam President. I do not believe that world peace and security will be guaranteed through military alliances. However, I respect the self - determination of nations and Sweden and the Finns have come to the conclusion of applying for membership in NATO, the company I would most likely like to see the Icelanders walk out of, which is their decision to apply for it, so I do not vote with this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u70	Madam President. Hv. A report on mental health care and health care evaluations has been reviewed by the management and monitoring committee, brought up guests and discussed the coverage of the state accountant's work and its proposals for improvement. The Commission's opinion is on the subject. 1,1554, 723th case, and I believe that if they have not already read it, members of the council can consider themselves on the Web site of the Generals. So I don't intend to read it from word to word here today. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that after a management board and surveillance committee ended their discussion and that written the report went to the question. A well - being committee where it is being discussed and I expect that what is stated in the report that is extensive and good will be guided by a mental - health committee's management of mental health matters and the future services of the mental - health system. This time, I would like to briefly review suggestions for improvement made in a report by the National Review Board. Seven of them clearly shed light on the position of this important group of subjects and, unfortunately, show how much is lacking in service to those who have to seek medical treatment in the mental - health system here. It's a lot of crooked things. They involve both the system as such, its implementation, its planning, information collection, but also what I believe to be the peripherality of this group of languages, and then I mean peripheralization within the medical system, and I'm also referring to peripheralization in the general community. Our grand task is to counteract prejudice against those who face emotional challenges at some point in their life and to promote health care to those who need it when they need it. It must be our biggest project here as a financial authority, we who make policy-making decisions about how we want to set priorities within the systems and through the systems as well as within the health system. The first proposal for improvement by a government accountant is the need to improve the collection of information, analysis and extramarital resources. The group has no perspective, and this is made clear in the report. Among the things to be done, there is a legal uncertainty about obtaining data from an official surgeon, the formation of a central waiting list, and a list of the application procedures for the forced process. Also, unexpected events involving mental - health services and complaints related to them need to be better recorded. Finally, there is no small issue under the first team, identifying services and the needs of people in the health system, and increasing the perspective of the Ministry. Like what? The members of the council are expected to have been established, I believe, by the Department of Health for the Management of Care and Medical Management of the Health Department. In recent days, there are dozens of nurses in the medical system, one 50 I think may say. We haven't graduated or graduated a new mental - health specialist for about four years. It's a very serious situation. I believe that professionals, health ministers, and others in the government and, of course, also need to take up the discussion about how we attract people to study in these articles, young people, including older people, also those who want to change their place of work, such as, how we can manage them to pursue health education in the field and then, when people have gained the skills and education, thus living in the health system where the workplace is - there are, of course, dozens of places, if not hundreds - that people are able to live and work there and spend their energy in these important jobs. It must also call attention to the problems of obtaining information in the system. This must be done in an effort to eliminate legal uncertainty, and it is referred to by the Commission. It must be established in the legislation that health care professionals, individually functioning physicians, such as those not providing information to a surgeon, are not able to communicate it to the surgeon. We need to keep this system in perspective, and we need to know about the number of cases, diagnostics, and other options to provide better health care. In fact, a list of incidents does not have to have many words. It tells itself that it is absolutely necessary to record a serious incident. There are also reports to be recorded. Another suggestion is the vital task of ensuring continuous service to patients. There is far too much to suggest that the services do not communicate or that the systems do not communicate, the health and social systems usually but sometimes within the medical system, when services need to be performed. Of course, it is not the systems that are talking, but the people who are working in the carts. It is not to exchange information and is not to make sure that the patient is able to get out of one service to another, if needed. It needs to be examined here, according to a head-on-viewer, whether the protocols should be placed in the health and social systems to work together, and even to see if it is that some who need service, may be seriously ill, receive a painter, and are referred to in the ideologies of the successful legislation, and that the person can be followed by an individual and a painter will see to it that the individual receives the services he or she receives. Enlightenment to patients is very important, and we must just make it clear that the patient is always informed about why he is getting a service and how and that it is always certain that if it is agreed, it is informed consent. A third factor listed by the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures is called grey areas of mental - health care. The gray areas are the areas that individuals can land in if they do not receive the appropriate service. According to one estimate, these sites are well - known within the system, but they are difficult to reduce, and we need to do better. The reason for the failure to reduce the number is said to be that there is a difference between state and community costs, as well as an unexplained shift of responsibilities between health services levels. As noted, the switch between the first, second, and third degree of health care services has been established, and this is very important. However, it is not as clear where to render service at the first, second, and third steps under pressure. It is also very important here, and is, of course, a task that governments have completely failed to solve, solving differences in responsibilities and costs between the state and the community. There are too many cases that end up in the gray space between here and the individuals are forgotten, they don't get the service they need. They are trapped in waiting lists or even without any service in front of them. And what does that mean? This means that these same patients are actually responsible for their immediate but not in the health and welfare services of the health system. It needs to reduce the motivations expressed by the National Reconnaissance that are in the system, and I don't disagree with it, that difficult and costly things can be turned away from themselves or between systems. It should not be that way, either between a local partner or between a country or a community or within the medical system, but, unfortunately, it certainly does not occur too often that people are referred in the same direction because practical authorities simply realize that they cannot afford to carry out the ministry because of financial management. That's not how it can be. Fourth, bioavailability is indicated that mental health care, time-sustaining bioavailability using the defined waiting-time criteria. There's not much more important when people get sick, I don't talk about if they get seriously ill, and that they get a service right away. There must be a way to make sure that people aren't stuck in the lists for weeks and months, I don't talk about when we're talking about children and young people. It is totally unacceptable that our system is in this way. Mental - health services also need to be balanced in terms of the country. According to this, I would like to point out that waiting time is in some cases the longest in the capital area. It is not necessarily that there is a longer waiting period in the country, but there are certain activities in the medical service, where waiting is too long and that, of course, impairs the quality of life of those waiting for the ministry. It is not surprising that people who are seriously ill have to wait for weeks and months just to get past the threshold of the health system. Man and staff specialisation are the fifth indication. Of course, this may be a very long matter and discuss with regard to salary and dress, environment and housing conditions within the health system. Simply put, we need more professionals into our medical system. We need more people in our mental health system. We need more psychiatrists, mental - health professionals. We need more medical personnel who have expertise in these matters, and fortunately, it is possible to obtain additional training for medical staff at the University of Akureyri. We need more psychologists and social worker. To me, it is clear that the government's job is to attract people to study and work so that we can man the system and that we keep in there the best available knowledge and do not insist on staff in the medical system that they can't see how they can work there. Of course, pay is important, but work environment, work conditions, pressures, and other factors are also very important, so that I don't get into the discussion, which is actually not discussed here, about the need for new mental centres and adequate housing for mental centres, e.g. such as at the Land Hospital, a modern home that corresponds to the requirements for mental - health care in the 21st century. sixth, the existence of mental health needs to be ensured. It's, I think, totally undisputed, across all categories, that the mental health team of the country's health centres has come through, I'd like to say. They have at least answers very much need. This is shown in the numbers listed in this report, and we see that these are good examples of a good multicenter first - level mental - health service, an example of how to work. Of course, we are all, and the committee is also, agreeing to ensure their existence and funding for them, and we discussed, in fact, that such a professional service would have to be in place for children and young people. Of course, we need to see how the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures answers that question. It also contains weighty assignments. The Committee also discussed how to ensure this conversation, which we are always talking about between health and social services, is very important, and of course it is a public health care representative. It is good to mention this example of a success and a response to the need. The seventh point is on action plans and their follow-up, a very important point. In view of the fact that the council's discussion of mental - health services is until 2030, I'm going to say that we even have to look beyond it. We need to make a ten - year plan, but we also have to look beyond the age of 20 and as far as we can see about the changes we know to make in the composition of the nation, the incidence of mental illness, what we know, and what we've seen in foreign studies about what is going on in our time. I'd like to agree with the National Reexamination Recommendation... that measures must be followed and followed... and evaluate the effectiveness of the procedure. But in one sentence, we are here discussing that long - term vision, long - term policy, mental health care, and it is at the highest level of solidarity, so we agree to finance the measures to be taken. They don't exist as the situation is today. We need a precise strategy based on policy, which hopefully will soon be cleared up here. More important, representatives of the General Assembly need to remember that it takes political strength to make long - term changes. It takes political strength and determination to implement these realities, to ensure that we will be in 2030 or 2040, where we want to be in harmony with our policy and that we have had the political strength to finance the actions we must take. We must get together because this is one of the most important aspects of health care and social services held by the state and community. We know that if we are successful in mental - health service, we are improving not just the quality of life of patients but the quality of life in our community. We're developing a community, and we're giving people a lot more opportunities to make their dreams come true than we would if we didn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u71	A respectable president. We will discuss a report by Kingdom Review on Mental Health, a very necessary review, and a long time, but sadly black. One child waits for mental - health services is too much for one child. What should we say to a child who has waited for three years to get the necessary service, a child who may be starting school? Can it be said: You have to wait until you are 10 years old, 11 years old, or 12 years old? And the schooling, how does it end? We do not think things through to the end because at the same time we are playing with the child's life. We do not know what will happen to that child if he is not helped to attend school. The probability indicates that the child will land between parts of the system and that he will even land on disability. Will the government of that time then say, "Hey, we need to send the person to the resume?" Is it not better, then, to intervene immediately, to make sure that no child is on such a waiting list, that no child will have to go through the calamities of waiting perhaps two or three years for a service that is absolutely right, and right now? Then there's something else in this system, and that's the cost. As the situation is today, there's some gross discrimination going on. Those who can afford it can buy their way in line. Those who cannot afford it are left behind. The cost at one hour is at 20,000 bucks. Sadly, the cost is huge for many. I know that parents have made the decision to pay themselves more for the system than to wait one, two or three years after the service they know their child needs vitally, and they can make a big difference in the future. The waiting lists are extending, and it is far from acceptable. Let's go back to the General's Accounting Report. It shows that a person's mental - health system is an ongoing problem and lack of special staff. There are so - called gray areas in the system as well as problems, and too long a waiting list, as I already did. The access to national mental - health services is a endemic problem, and many still live with reduced access to national services. There's no better teamwork, cross-cutting, and intercooperative service. One of the main problems, in the opinion of the Kingdom Accounting, is a great lack of professional staff. It is the main source of mental health control. Because of a great lack of mental - health professional and mental - care professionals, it is very difficult to watch, especially where assignments have increased and are prolonged. Unfortunately, this is a kind of drop-off for the government of power and for those who are trying to restore this system. It is important to increase the number of educated people in the profession and the working conditions and the working environment so that they will draw people to work. Sadly, the fact is that we are creating a new system, bringing mental health care into the clinic. But this problem has been followed by a lack of staff. People are taking off some of the things they would most need to wear to work on the lists and to move to the clinic, and they need people. There's not enough new staff coming into the system. It's a problem we've known for a long time, but for some reason, it seems that no one has found a solution or has been systematically trying to see that we have enough educated people. According to Public Review, there are great weaknesses in the system, however, it is unclear who should render a certain service and combine it to another service if it should be interrupted. Also, the gray areas need to be eliminated, where people land between systems, and they will not receive the service they have the right to serve. I've had people who even did. inside the medical system is not the type of service that they need; somehow, it will land between them. There is no one who seems to be able to take part in helping the person with a mental disorder, e.g. to catch it in the process of getting it into the disability system or in the rehabilitation system, that a person has a permanent land, has some solid income, and has some potential. The system needs diagnostic, extramarital, integrated services, reduction in grey areas of the mental health system. Mental - health services need to be increased, and there is a need for practical action. It is amazing how hard government reexamination was to get the answer to the questions asked by the Ministry on Costs and to respond to a request for it. It has been said that the situation was that it seems that the systems do not talk to each other. It seems that it has not been defined and placed in such a way that you can go to one place and find out all the data. The conclusion is that the government lacks perspective on the mental health status of the country. There's a lack of information, analysis of it. There is no information on the number of people who have had mental illness in Iceland. There's a detailed list of mental disorders in Iceland, i.e. pooled data on the incidence of mental illness or mental disorders, though they meet laws on personal protection, on grammatical purposes and a moderate in the processing of personal information. It is unacceptable to see the details of forced and forced psychiatric services or standard records in such cases that they are not holding it. As we have come to know, the gray areas are one of the most amazing parts of this, i.e. the group that is falling in between these gray areas or between systems does not appear to have been successfully mapped. The committee was setting up a committee, but that comment was made to my committee that it was not known what had happened to them, whether they were working, or what is going on there. At any rate, I understand, which may be positive, that the work being done with children has been more professionally taking place in these gray areas. Here is a particular group that has multiple problems, and it seems that the more difficult the person has to deal with the problem, the more difficult he or she is, the more difficult it is to get someone to deal with the problem. Because of the cost of dealing with the problem, it seems that the systems somehow want to throw these individuals together. It tells us that there is something big that if we cannot guarantee financial support so that people do not have to refuse service or that they need to be pushed between systems because the cost is too high. Then there's the possibility of a person falling between systems and I'm talking from experience, that's serious. We are talking about a serious matter. We are talking about seriously ill people, and in no way can we justify their being in this situation. A government viewer set up seven things that he thought would require special consideration and that would be what needs to be focused on. He first mentioned the need for a stream of information and analysis and extramaritals, as I spoke of earlier. It is totally unacceptable that we are in this system that we cannot have all the information and that we cannot identify the problem or keep out of the system about how many are in the system, how many are in gray areas, or how many are dealing with many issues. Of course, it is extremely serious that we have not documented or recorded who are subject to pressure or forced care in our mental - health system. Of course, something is absurd, and it must be handled. Second, continuous service to the mentally ill must be guaranteed. I'm sure this should be a big deal. It is, in effect, incomprehensible that mental - health patients need to be written down to ensure continuous service. That is exactly what it takes, and that is exactly what will result in success. Third, the gray areas of health care that I have mentioned must be eliminated. It is vital to go to that work and make sure that that area is well defined. There is a system that needs to be built so that not one person has to face the miserable situation of becoming between these systems. I'm just saying, Guð helps someone there and the family. There is no good place to be, and it should not be necessary. Fourth, there is a need to improve the availability of mental - health services. Of course it has to be done, it should be of course. It should not be necessary to add the availability of all those in need of health care and especially to ensure that children receive the services they need without waiting. It's annoying, as I've been on, that there are 1,000 children on the waiting list for ADHD analysis and that we should have a three-year waiting period for them. For my part, I say, it's incomprehensible. Sadly, the number of people on the waiting list is increasing and the waiting time is getting longer. Still, it is always talking about creating a new system about catching children before, creating a system to work in ten years. It's too late for a large group of children. We have the large number of children needed to serve now. It should have been a very simple matter to deal with, but somehow it seems that it has been forgotten in the system. People seem to be moving from system to system, but there is no increase when a new system, such as the health care unit, is established. The existence of mental health needs to be ensured. This will be the best thing to do by making it possible for these teams to be human without having to take someone from anywhere else to solve that problem. The seventh point is that there is a need for strategy and follow-up. It's just that the fact that we need to be led to this tells us that the system is getting a function, unfortunately. We are never to accept a system in which there are not hundreds but thousands of them waiting, a system where people cannot afford the services they need, and children remain behind unless they have obtained parents, a system that says to someone, and especially to children: You are waiting for the next 36 months or more. One waiting child is too much. It's as simple as that. We are to take care of it once and for all, and it should be our priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u72	A respectable president. As the demand for mental - health services increases year after year, the report we discuss here is an extensive end of sufficient importance. The report gives evidence that mental - health efforts have been made, and some improvements have yielded good results. Yet, the difficulty in carrying out the ministry is greatly overshadowed by the results. An organization of mental - health services is in line with government policies that the right service should be performed in the right place. Although the report paints a dark picture, some measures have been improved, e.g. Healthcare providers in Stage 1, Second and Phase 3 service. However, it is specifically noted that the definition of the condition is lacking, and only in the second degree of health care. Unexplained boundaries between services can lead to waste, both time and money. Another positive procedure is the introduction of mental health, which has greatly increased the availability of psychological services at the clinic. For example, the number of clinics due to mental illness has increased by 91% at national level, but the number of hospitals dropped by 24% in the period. There is evidence that the more people are benefiting from the ministry, the closer they are to it. The report says that the lack of professional staff is a mental - health service for cleaning. It appeared to the committee that the human problem has not been diagnosed, and it must be a priority to consider more carefully the education of professionals in these classes. Newcomers must be secure all over the country. In addition to the need for human resources, care should be taken to ensure that work conditions and work environment attract people to a mental - health professional. A closer look at whether there is a basis for applying some kind of economic motivation for professionals to pursue a specific mental - health education and to make a complete analysis of the need for service, the human problem, and the situation of housing. The report says that the human problem is a leading cause of long waiting. So there is much work to do and the need to look for a year's problems to grow, and the availability of good health needs to be improved. It is a pleasure to relate that in the fall of this year, a master's course will begin at the University of Akureyri in cooperation with Iceland's University and the mental - health services of the National Hospital and the Akureyri Hospital, which will most likely promote mental health care throughout the country. Mental - health professionals play a vital role, especially in mental - health matters. In particular, a government view draws attention to the internal differences in the mental - health system and makes it clear that not everyone is at the same level. Such discrimination is required, but bioavailability is often determined by economy, habitat, and type of mental disorder. The differences are also included in the global gray areas of service. The gray areas are where there is uncertainty and responsibility. This applies both to the switch between the Department of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health and the switch between health institutions. Better conjunctions and coordination between service levels must be ensured. The core is that there should not be a vague limit to providing health care, but gray areas seem to be the most likely bite on individuals with chronic or multiple problems. A review of the mode of access to mental - health services to those dealing with addictions and mental disorders also caught my attention in the report. It further encourages the point in the report that the health system is poorly equipped to cope with multiple mental disorders. People in effective consumption are expelled from treatments, and mental - health teams are not dealing with people in effective consumption. IN THESE count of this outcome, it is evidence of prejudice that should be taken seriously. Gray areas are present. In some places, we know them, and it is vital that they be called upon to reduce their numbers. It is also shocking how badly our systems talk to each other. One of the State Review comments focuses on poor access to data and information. No specific information is available on the number of people with mental illness or mental illness in Iceland. Information and data, of course, are essential to targeted policies and quality of work. Government reviews strongly suggest that there will be an improvement in the availability of data on the incidence of psychiatric disorders in this country. Based on a review to the UK, the U.S.A. has collected data providing insight into the scope and nature of addictions used in research as well as on improved planning and quality of treatment. The Ministry of Health is now working on legislation that will wipe out legal uncertainty about the establishment of the European Commission on the well-being of the European Commission. Increasing unworkable because of mental disorders: The report shows that 8,300 individuals were in part uncooperative because of mental illness in 2020. It is important to improve the capacity for rehabilitation, not only to increase the employment of this group, but also to contribute to the active community involvement. It must also be viewed as different from the bioavailability of the rehabilitation strategy. The cause of the problem must be considered. The increase in the rate of mental disability or rehabilitation during a period of ten years or in 2010-2020 was 30%, during which time there was a 15% increase in population population in Iceland. It's a state reexamination that puts it in this remarkable context. Mental - health disorders are also identified as the primary causes of disability, or more than one third of the cases, in 2020. Without regard to mental disorders as the primary cause of disability increases the proportion to 60%. It's 60% that tick to a box has to deal with mental illness. The case is huge. This discussion has been prominent, but it may have been little or nothing. The cost of social security in microenergy and rehabilitation in the non-employment sector due to mental disorders was 26.6 billion. in 2020. I'd also like to pause for the problems of young people in this context. The incidence of disability is relatively high in this group and has seen light in recent months, but every tenth person in Iceland does not have a job or study. Young people's applications for rehabilitation also increase. This discussion must not only focus on increasing effectiveness rates or increased capacity for rehabilitation, although it is also the task of improving the quality of life of young people with impaired ability. The report shows that the Ministry of Health is working on the appropriate reimbursement of the cost of psychiatric services for the year 2022 to respond quickly to the urgent mental disorders of young people who have had to wait for service. We have much to do with the development of that project. For example, national analysis, counselling and education for children up to 18 years of age may be carried out by the Advisor and diagnostic centre. Much of the work involves mental health. The Agency is now under the Ministry of Education and Juvenile Affairs and Services, including the U.S. children with developmental impairment and disability. The vast amount of waiting lists remains for the ministry, or up to 18◯24 months. The same story applies to waiting for the BUDG service, which is less than nine months. We all know that each year in a child's life is important and unacceptable that the wait is so long. In this context and in this discussion about mental health and the relationship with the incidence of disability among young people and the waiting of children for service, I feel strongly that we also discuss preventive measures such as the establishment of mental health for children and young people and not only adults, that children also have access to school psychologists, that we put more emphasis on school education, prevention, and mental - health practices. I have high hopes that the head of the mental health management board will be improved in view of the President's comments in the report. A respectable president. This administrative process, taken by the State Accounting, sheds light on a problem that has grown greatly in recent years. The challenge is to tackle people who need help to get the help they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk on this very important subject. I agree with it. A senator said about the obstacles to mental - health services that reveal internal prejudices, unfortunately. A report by the National Review says that a degree of discrimination is built into the mental health system in Iceland and that not everyone sits at the same level. The availability of services is often determined by the economy, the type of mental disorder, and the habitat. Discrimination is also involved in the fact that certain groups land in so - called gray areas and are not eligible for services, including due to uncertain responsibilities and costs, lack of capital, design and resources, or other circumstances. I'd like to ask for this occasion. A senator for what has been approved here at the General Assembly, i.e. subsidies for the Psychological Service of Iceland's Medical Insurance. This is a case adopted here at a council several years ago, a bill, but unfortunately, this service has not been funded so that psychological services are subsidized. If you're to take groups that fall completely out of the table there, it's not interclasses that can draw support to their unions, it's just those outside the labour market, students who don't have unions to look for, and those who may be in the most vulnerable position. I want to ask you why. A senator will see how she feels about this and if we should not try to get along and finance this vital service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u74	President. I'd like to thank the senator for the answer. I would like to refer to a section of the National Reexamination Report that discusses the response of the Ministry of Health. This is exactly the agreement on the purchase of psychotherapy, and it is merely about a informal team that has been set up and the suggestions being made. I expect suggestions from the Ministry of Health as early as possible to deal with these urgent problems, especially for the young people who have prayed and for students, as one member noted. This is important, and there is, of course, a reason why more was involved here at the council. The voters agreed that this was important and that this case had to be attacked. If I had been at a council when it was approved, I would also have voted for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree that both are part of this essential mental - health service that we must have but also part of prevention. By interrupting sooner, before the problem is very deep - seated - now I am not saying that psychologists cannot work on a deep - seated problem, but they can handle less complex tasks and tools in a psychological service than they can take it right into the medical system. I think this section of prowess is extremely important. I think we have to get involved in this as an investment in people, not in expenses. We're investing in the human race, which will be so much less expensive at any other level of society. I'll take another ride in the report. It says, by permission of the president: However, concern over the difficulty in answering questions, providing costs, and responding to information requests within reasonable periods of time, shows that a decision to do research has been made to those who needed time to respond to the inquiry. The power of Our Kingdom Review waited for months for answers to certain questions, despite the challenges, but it was also difficult to find a meeting period. At the same time, government reviews feel that some of the Ministry's answers have been vague and unconvinced at the time they were finally received. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether this was discussed at a Kingdom Review meeting, what the answers may have been, and whether this is also one of the exorbitant prejudices against this type of health problem, i.e. That somehow we seem to have so little perspective on what we are doing in this group of subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u76	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. With regard to the prevention, I wholeheartedly agree that psychological services are part of a prophylaxis service that we should be doing on a broader foundation. We're going to school with an early intervention. We have screens for our younger children, and in recent years we are learning a little bit how we will expand our ministry to the future. We see this tremendous growth in disability as a result of mental illness, and this is an earlier development. I agree that the preemptive value of psychology services is also high. As to the comments of Our Public Review of Response, a pandemic was under way. Mental - health services are provided at so many levels and in many institutions that needed to be called for information. They were all divided in all ways and responded to the regulations for the cross-cutting regulations for Covid. An understanding is that the pandemic's answers have been received late. But it is also very serious that we do not have these details and the details. I find it very difficult for us to set our course and discuss a case when we do not have all the data, when all the information is not available. Something is being tackled and too important when it comes to molding a mental - health policy for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u77	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for an excellent speech, this was the finest review of the report. Actually, I didn't agree completely with what was said at the outset, i.e. that this was more of a policy development, that it was what was wrong. I think there's also some basic thought in the system that's not quite right. At least this report is dark, fully packed. I cut it at the end of the day. A member of the congregation went to the very chapter that I was going to make up the subject of a talk below. It points out what the National Reconnaissance says about the need for access to information on the rate of mental illness to be added in this country, and this must be an important basis for targeted policies and quality of work. In this way, the Agency is pointing out that for decades, a database that has been effectively tested has been maintained. It then contains information on the epidemiology of addictive diseases, providing insight into the extent and nature of addiction problems and has been used in research and to plan and control treatments that are available. This, of course, is an exemplary one. I know why. A senator is on the right side of life in this respect, and that is exactly what we are talking about a free organization. We're actually talking about a private enterprise, i.e. A FEW that builds up this service. What you find interesting about this is that this private business goes much further than the government does when it comes to these matters, when it comes to holding on to information and working out scientific research and other concerns. We are discussing this today, and in the news at a mbl.is today, we also see that private health care centres get a much better score for users according to a new survey of health insurance. During the last term, we saw a little present between the members of the administrations, the VG and the Independence Party, on health care just when it comes to personal business. I was going to ask you what. A member of the council whether this is just another reason why we should look for more in the private enterprise when it comes to health care, although with the conditions where the agreements are very clear and under control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u78	Mr. President. It is very important to deal with these data issues. It is not normal for legal complications to be a premise that a surgeon in the U.S. surgeon can call for data from the subsidiary institutions. It's a matter of work and adjustment. It's interesting to see that this project has not taken so long as to collect data from a new personal protection law, but it will still be from the government. This is an excellent point in talking about increasing the activity of personal health care. It's a pleasure to have a pleasant evening. A senator should talk about private health care business. I've just proposed a plagiarization proposal, where I suggest health - care ministers make health care insurance available for the Akureyri clinic. I want the way of private health care that most of it is available. I think it's very important that we rely on more hands in the system, and that's my clear stand in the matter of allowing others to come to the table. I just think that's a sign that we can trust others but only the public system for rendering this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for answering this inquiry from me. This is exactly the case, and this is what has been often pointed out. Yet, deaf ears are sometimes spoken. We must not be completely trapped in the thought that the beginning and the end of everything, when it comes to service to people, even to a more delicate service, would have to be that the pay card comes from the government, either from a state or from a community. It seems exactly that this report reveals that in some places it could be extended to a person who prefers to set up some type of private business over certain aspects of the ministry, and then, of course, by a preordained proposal that has always been made available to us in Recession, that there is a string of things that is strong enough to take care of it and that it is perfectly clear what is going to be bought and at what cost. Of course, that person could be Iceland's Medical Insurance. I refer to the clinics in this regard to the fact that those who use the ministry seem to agree that at least the ministry is no worse for those who are private than for the others. Commenting on this report, mental - health aid points to a wealth of information when it comes to making donations. In terms of health - care contributions, it is noted that 4.6% goes to mental health, while the level of mental health care in the system is 30%. We heard at the highest. The secretary of finance here is talking about this in unsubstantiated question period this morning that in itself the problem of the system could not be established as a financial problem, some of which would need to be looked at. Then I'm going to ask you what. A senator whether he feels that he is in harmony between, i.e. how little part of the total amount of money goes into mental - health services and whether there is a need to correct the error in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. I am very interested in discussing private health care matters. A 2019 service survey, I think, revealed that there was also much confidence in the private development system that may have surprised someone. I was not surprised, but I'm sure it was someone's surprise. The pleasure was also the highest, and I think we need to see if we would like to have more hands come to the table in the country. I think there's a lot of opportunities to let more people at the table. I think there's a demand for it too. It would be interesting to see if the health minister is interested in increasing private business in the system in the country. There is no need to look far into the country; Southnes can be seen with appeals for better service and varied service. As for the box and funding and all of that, I think it's all a matter of priority that goes on within the Ministry of Health. It is reasonable to ask ourselves, " Should I put more money on this than the other? ' But I think that we all agree a little bit, and the committee completely agreed that we want the best possible measure of our mental - health service. There must be a return to the system, the emphasis and the discussion that have taken place here at the Senate Hall by everyone. I have high hopes that effort will be made in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u81	A respectable president. We have here a report by a state accountant on the subject of mental health care. A management board has been discussed. The report contains the results of administrative decisions on mental health policy, its induction, its costs, and the achieving of established goals. The committee called visitors to get a clearer picture of the situation, and a discussion within the committee was helpful. According to Public Review, an organization of mental - health services is fundamental to government policy, while there are certain problems on the system that reduce the effectiveness of implementation. These include human resources and the lack of specialized staff, called gray areas and waiting lists that are endemic, as the report explains. The results of this report confirm that demand and the need for mental - health services increase year after year, not just because of population growth, but because of other conditions that increase demand. The recent pandemic may have a powerful effect, not only on such matters but also on the need for full - time mental - health care. Icelandic governments are advised to lack perspective on mental health status, since data on the incidence and development of mental illness are not available and neither are analyses of services and the need for people in this sector. The report points out the lack of detailed policies and planning in the field of mental health care that have previously been in general practice for Icelandic health care. The current health minister, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, has set out here at the General Assembly on Mental Health for the year 2030 and is on the committee. A government accountant's report is an appeal for us to be quick to settle this matter, although the basic criteria allow us to plan for five - year operations in agreement with the main stakeholders. The emphasis on improving mental - health policies depends on mental - health development, prevention, and the importance of overall health care. A key element of well - being is to nurture mental health throughout life. A respectable president. The report confirms that the mental - health system needs a future change. We need to act quickly. When the report was discussed on the Board of Directors and Control Committee, visitors came along to discuss the situation today and the future. Clearly, high hopes are linked to the arrangement for integrating child - care services, an arrangement that could improve people's well - being and emotional well - being for a longer time. The goal of the law is to create an overall perspective and a frame of service that is most important to successful children. The laws are multidisciplinary and include the services children enjoy in schools, within the health system, and in social services. It was noted that the laws of law could be extrapolated to integrated mental - health services. In this way, success laws stress that management and follow-up procedures are efficient and simple. That is certainly a plea within our mental - health system. This procedure could also reduce or even eliminate the gray areas mentioned in the report. A respectable president. Clearly, the focus must be applied especially to mental health. Mental health is the basis for the general well - being of us all. Many things have been accomplished, but this is especially the case today that needs to be directed to people's well - being. Many experience social isolation, which applies to people of all ages, people who experience loneliness. Loneliness is defined as the unpleasant feeling of experiencing a lack of social need. Research has shown that older people are often lonely, but there has been an increase in loneliness in all age groups. Studies show that loneliness is growing in young people 16◯24 years of age. The cost of society and individuals for loneliness is high and in many ways. Left unchecked, loneliness can develop into serious physical and mental illness. It was not specifically addressed in the report, but this is a point I would like to mention in this relationship. A respectable president. The committee reviewed the importance of developing mental - health eyes throughout the country and described the committee as being happy with their arrival. It is an enormous step in national equality in terms of access to health care and especially for mental health care. By means of the first phase of a mental - health service that has occurred in the past in hospitals and only until things have gone to a serious level. In the report and to the Department of Health, the Department of Health informed a government accountant that the need for the existence of mental health and the development of mental health. It is important to be built up for such services and to be expanded throughout the country, and such services must be integrated between health and social services. It is also important that a comparable team for children at a second stage of health care will be established, and hopefully it will become a reality soon. It has also been observed that by the processing of the report, the services of a mental - health team incarcerated were permanently secured by steady financial support. It's a pleasure, and I want to reiterate the importance of it being maintained. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to reiterate the importance of the establishment of the current health minister on a mental - health policy until 2030, now available at the council. Indeed, there is a national conflict that is needed in calling out. It's all about society that there's a great need for mental health care, and I think we're all here on the same level. Now, it is our job to show that we take the group seriously and for the sake of it. A mental - health policy to the year 2030, arranged by the health minister before the council, is an important step in the right direction. Improved organization, better service conversation, shorter repercussions, increased availability, and long - term mental - health thinking can increase long - term effectiveness, efficiency, and effectiveness in the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u82	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Lord's Halla, Signor SignýKristjánsdóttir for his excellent speech. The things I would like to have a conversation with you. This emphasis is presented by a senator. The senator said that when the report was considered, the members of the board and board had been discussed in the discussions of guests and others on the board of directors and monitoring committees. We have had a mental - health policy to 2020, which has been perturbing, and it is no secret that there are fixed emphasises that have not yet been completed. We then have a synonym, which includes a ten more years' policy, until 2030, and I agree that it's important that we finish that matter. But I say it without a responsibility, I haven't read it myself, so I can't say what changes I'd like to see there. But there's a hole between us. Hv. A senator was rightly informed about loneliness and anxiety and these factors, which are fundamental to mild depression and feelings of distress, which is called the first phase of symptoms and can lead to mental disorders, which certainly require assistance. However, the report we discuss puts more focus on the big, heavy issues, and again completely understandable. In view of the situation, it is impossible to avoid being overly concerned that when the emphasis comes on these big and heavy issues in the hospital, these difficult treatments, lacking resources, will be applied to those who work in this category from these mild points just mentioned by the senator. I wanted to start by asking: Is this something that was discussed at the committee meeting as part of the case? [[The president calls.]] The little thing I know about this new council arrangement is that they're also floundering on heavy issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u83	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for the answers. Yes, it was a very good discussion of the report and this and that of the committee. Mental - health issues are widespread, occurring at all levels of society from the cradle to the grave. I'm looking to the future in this speech, what we can change. The situation is serious today, I agree with that, and it came out fine. It was also found that the mental - health team has reduced the number of hospital admissions, the relief of that system. It was introduced into prejudice, e.g. has talked about consultation with users. These are all steps we have to take to improve today's situation. In the direction that I mentioned earlier in my speech, it speaks of consultations with users as well as equal to users in a state of mental health that we have not really had. That's why I'm always talking about these mental - health teams because in small places in the country, there was nothing. People didn't go to the family doctor with some depression, and Hansa only gave them a Band-Hansi. Many subjects were discussed, and much good discussion took place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. This is, naturally, an enormous, vast group of paintings, and I take to heart what the senator says about the need to look at the big movie and look at it for a long time. It's just that it's so often difficult to have political endurance when it comes to urgent emergency work short - term. That's when all the tensions come along. I'm sorry, for example. It's interesting to see in the report that there is no mention of the arrival of a victim. In fact, it is explained that the work under the health department is viewed as being carried out. The fact is, a victim's medical fund is the largest single fund that pays for those who are not in the system. By talking about this from this report, but apart from ours, we are already in this cell division. It contains, for example, being working full - time on individuals who need help with mild or minor depression, so I talk to a lot of professionals, mental disorders that grow and become more manageable if they're not doing it. But the emphasis is on these big issues. I hope so. A senator agrees with me that when we start talking about policy until the next eight years, the time goes by, we take all of this into, but we don't continue this compartment. We will not achieve the results that I think we will all agree that we want to achieve and that we need to study all of this and talk about things the way they really are.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree that we have to watch the big movie. Mental - health services are offered on a wide scale. Hv. A senator spoke of a victim. We can talk about a lot of groups and growth in the entire community. For example, we can name Stepamoth, all the tremendous help provided here and there by members of society, by people who have come together for a particular problem, by a smokeloaf, and elsewhere. The services of psychologists were discussed earlier. I was on that council arrangement, and we discussed that service with a great deal of the committee and other factors that I agree with. Senator about the fact that we have to watch. We need to remove our eyes and look very wide across the country, to all groups. We need to start earlier with an early intervention, just right away at the nursery. We can even see right away that something must be helped to bring a healthy person into life. It's so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. This report is so good because it can be recorded in so many places. Where it says it is far better than what you necessarily speak from your heart because there are facts there. I would like, with the permission of the president, to read from the report a little bit: ▪ The media regularly discusses patients who are referred to from a mental - health clinic without any service they might consider appropriate. [...] A regional study requested a number of references from the National Hospital Mental Services Hospital, but the hospital did not cover these statistics. [...] Thus, the evolution of such cases, the cause, the outcome of the individual or other cases cannot be considered. [...] In addition to reference reports, the previous issue discussed cases in which patients are trapped in the mental - health care of Land Hospital due to lack of appropriate measures. And it continues: In July 2021, the head of the jurist at the Platform said that rights were broken on a man who's been stuck there for years because of the lack of appropriate special measures. Man has been in a mental ward for four years, where there is no differentiation in the treatment of brain damage. Reykjavík City points to the state where security is not on the table of your local partner. Man's subject has been on the table of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but there is no solution, as there is controversy as to whether countries or rural groups should handle the costs of brain damage. The cost of health care is lost in this case, in one of the most expensive measures available. It is far more expensive to save patients in a judicial unit than in a community facility or about three to ten times more expensive according to the head physician. Now I assume that this was only discussed at the moment. A health committee or a management board, where possible. A senator sits. Isn't this something we need to react to because it's called waste, not investment?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for the answer. Here we go. A senator just mentioned a few things I've considered and had an interest in. I was sitting with what was. A member of the welfare committee last year, and we discussed these matters. That's right. There may be no early intervention. But these patients who have suffered pre-cerebral injury are a little out of the system, that's just a fact. This may not have been specifically discussed with the committee in connection with this report. But it's just a big hole. It's not a gray hole, it's a black hole in which these individuals are in. We know that this has been a bit of a bite in the Grey Book Committee, which is about a division between state and rural society, and there's no result. I've been talking to a doctor in psychology who's just hired at the University of Iceland who's starting a study about this and another approach, because the approach we've been using here and in the North countries may not be good enough for these individuals. But I agree that these individuals are in a very black place. Sadly, we are not putting our arms around the course that I quoted earlier. Rather, we need to put our personal concerns ahead of those individuals. Both are assigned from the Land Hospital and in many other places, and they may not be able to enter either.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree that it's not really a gray area, it's black. A public review agrees with us, with president's permission: ▪ An official review feels unacceptable that the situation can still be unclear as to who is responsible and the cost of a specific mental - health service although the problem has been known for a long time. Patient interests primarily as well as viewpoints on the practical management of patients require immediate solutions. I agree. We must respond. We don't have proper housing. Then I'd like to refer to our council hearing proposals in the United States, which we have submitted more than once, regarding the building of facilities for mental health care. As the situation is today, all the mental departments in the country that are in Akureyri Hospital are in a Hospital on the Ring Road and on the Kleep, in a house that is not acceptable, unfortunately. Today we received reports of people who are under compulsion and for the first 21 days of forced care for three whole weeks after forced care is performed, which is a very taxing and dramatic operation for individuals, the person cannot get out and receive oxygen. You've heard terrible stories about people who just try to breathe through a small opening of a window -- obviously they get oxygen in the room, but the descriptions of feeling so trapped are terrible. Then you think, " Wait, isn't it in 2022? ' Why don't we just put on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Improve access, improve housing, improve mental - health professionals - these are vital factors. I think this point, regarding housing, is nothing less important than anything else, I completely agree with that. We may continue to talk about the existence of grey areas and even black but by integrating local and state services, we may be able to talk about it, finding a solution to this problem. Our house - to - house problem is just as large as any, and we are now dealing with the same situation in more places as in our mental - health service. What's that? A senator in the condition of those in forced care - I believe it, and we just need to correct the situation. It's sad to hear such news. I hope we can fix this. It is also a case of future mice that we have to play for all of us and into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u90	Mr. President. I'm just going to say something about this report. It's a pretty big report, but it's got to be said right now. I'm also going to put forth an effort to emphasize certain aspects of the Bible by directly witnessing to it. There is a number of points in it that call for a strong discussion here at the Assembly Hall and, of course, continued government work in the years ahead, since the report is dark. Just hours ago, it was the highest. Secretary of finance in this chair responded to an unprepared inquiry. At that time, the problem of health care was heard once again that it was something far different from that of those who have been in control of the country for years and even decades. The problem of the system is, not those who have ruled the country, but some unexplained design problem that seems to have fallen into the hands of the government. It is sometimes spoken as if the government were some of the innocent victims of this series of events. Looks like some evil designer came from outer space. That's the big problem. As a result of such rationalizing, people are led to conclude that governments intend to get away from the responsibility of the case, that is simply some challenge. It is of serious concern to hear this explanation, for it is a serious responsibility. The work conditions that people live in at the hospital and in the health - care system are the responsibility of the government. If nurses, doctors, or after other classes do not want to cooperate with what they are designed to do because of stress or employment, they are responsible for the people who have developed and carried out their policies for years. This applies to the system as well as to the mental health care services we address here based on this marvelous report by the National Re-examination under the Commission and Control Committee, and the members of the Committee took it seriously to review it carefully. This is not a dark report or a black report. It's a pretty cool report. It is a total dropoff of governments and groups that have been controlled for years. Three groups have served together for five years, and advancement and independence have continued to continue. We know exactly where the responsibility lies, and therefore responsibilities are not available when we discuss this report. This is especially true of the so - called design problem. We're going to take a word in the report, with President's permission: ▪ Users of mental - health services have many in the ministry who are in tremendously reduced access to the ministry. Relations are endemic, and some are measured in years and years. A long wait for service with a lack of special staff and appropriate options may be reported, but there is also evidence that the system is an incentive to dismiss difficult matters and thus avoid costs. It is said that long waiting for service can add to the problems of people needing service and that the cost may be substantially higher, which may be contrary to what is supposed to be the case. The report makes it clear that there is a lack of psychiatric care, especially at the hospital, for cleaning, and that mental - health professionals are also severely lacking. According to informal assessment, and now I'm witnessing to the report, the hospital needs at least a mental - health service. The 50 status of nurses, ten trained mental - health professionals, and ten mental - health practitioners as well as more professionals. So the report is dark when the carpentry is severed. I'm going to repeat: The problem is the responsibility of those in charge over the past few years, in debt. It is the government's responsibility to create human conditions for staff, to provide environments that attract powerful people, that enable qualified people to work to help severely ill people with mental illness. There's no way out of this. Man's problem is nothing like a sudden, sudden, unexpected natural disaster. It is the work of the sons of men, and it is of prime importance, if we make matters better, that it be let go quickly, safely, and surely. I'm going to allow myself to be dramatic and say that human life is at stake and that the Icelandic public requires that the government at any given time not get a relapse in such a report. The report emphasizes that man - made design is a human problem and that humans are responsible for where the system is going, as is the case so closely revealed in the report. The report explains that there has been some unskilled government in these matters and especially when it comes to the education of health care professionals. It says, by permission of the president: A review of the medical profession suggests that the health department needs to consider more carefully the recruitment and education of professionals in these classes and that the working conditions and environment do not discourage people from working in these areas. At the same time, how to further use the powers of mental - health professionals should be considered, including with increased teamwork, advising services of independent functioning physicians and the growth of other professions that are mentally healthy. Of course, this underscores what I'm saying. The environment is created by people responsible for the system. But I'm not going to talk about my husband's problem anymore. I'm going to go over to something else and point back to an unprepared question period from earlier today. That's when they said the highest. The minister of finance that there had been a special campaign for mental health care over the years, and this is also what members of the Parliament and Ministers of the VG run very hard in the campaign last time, that there had been a special campaign in mental health care. Of course, the report we are discussing here today tells us very clearly that in spite of the beautiful promises and a great deal of generosity before elections, there is another conclusion. I'm going to list a few things quickly. According to the report, waiting lists are a so - called large gray region, with a problem not clear who is responsible for performing a certain type of service. There is much lack of information to gather and hold it in order to promote the possibility and analysis of the problem. In this regard, I would like to draw special attention to the lack of detailed information on the application of pressure and forced care in providing medical care. These data are not available and there is a lack of perspective on the group, there is one sentence in the report. If that is the case, you wonder, " How can I talk about some effort in the past? ' In this context, I also want to quote a word right into the opinion of the management and monitoring committee, which was a major step in their work, both the administrative and the administrative situation, when the report was discussed on the Committee. The demand and need for mental health care increase from year to year within the medical system. The government's ability to ensure the proper service depends on its expectations and is waiting for service in general, not on government goals. There is a lack of perspective in the case category and the necessary data are not available or unacceptable. At that time, there has been a decline in international policy policies and the effectiveness of a mental - health programme in 2016-2020. Under these publications, members of the board of directors, as do governmental opposers, who, of course, simply tell us that we have work to do. Of course, I can give an even longer talk about all the panels in the system than look to the future and get together for some kind of work that will benefit them from putting their arms around the group underneath that is in the system, since there are often cases of acutely ill people in a more sensitive position, much of which. The gray areas of this report are referred to in a little bit, which means that it is unclear who should perform a certain service and who should be uncertain about who to pay for it, and of course it is very serious. We are often creating certain concepts like gray areas, but that just means that sick people are not getting a proper service. This points to one another and the patient falls apart. Of course, if we put ourselves in the position of the weak who cannot be served, because the responsibility in the seminary and funding is not clear, we will see that all talk about gray areas is just a measure of beauty. Yet, this is a challenge. The report says: This is especially true in situations where there is a chronic need and where health and social resources need to be maintained at the same time as the need for more integrated services, e.g. in children with multiple problems and in people with congestive heart failure. This is one of the main weaknesses in the administrations of the seminary. Most people are familiar with the problem, but it's hard to solve. This is yet another highlight on the National Review that problems have been maintained in the system that has not been solved despite repeatedly being addressed, both in the community, by users, by stakeholders, and here at the council. They're not gonna make it to anyone who's been running the country for the last few years. A public review then says about this: It is important that the management of psychiatric and mental - health services is always thought - provoking from a cross-cutting point of view, ranging from policy to implementation. In this regard, health - care laws do not cover consultation or cooperation between health institutions with other health care providers, such as social services. The lack of cooperation and consultation with health institutions and social services is common, harmful to patients' interests and costly, with best results being considered for health and social factors in the context. Of course, reading that it is that individual units within the system do not seem to be appropriate. It means, of course, as I think it would be. Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir's been quite a while before, though, that people aren't talking to each other. It's not a system we can't handle. They're all people, and all they need is a policy and a setting that makes them talk to the people in these systems. If this does not happen, of course, it is the patient who suffers. It is also tragic to read that prejudice is built into the system, which is added to prejudices sometimes experienced by people with a mental disorder in the community. I've been addressing this before during a conference talk, and I have shown that this really means that there is a degree of discrimination in the health system. Not everyone sits at the same table. Access to services is poor, for example, due to farms, economics, and a type of mental disorder. This means that sick people are discriminated against, and since they are built into the mental health system, it is that this system ensures our people's discrimination. It doesn't guarantee equality, it ensures discrimination, it's built into the system. This must be taken into consideration as a result of this report. Although some of this may not have been known before, we need to make a thorough inspection, and of course, it is completely disturbing. I'd also like to mention that mental - health care is merely a review of statistics and how the information is kept in mind. Mental - health aid emphasizes the importance of increasing, improving, and maintaining good attention to data collection and communication when it comes to mental health. Of course, this is essential to evaluating progress and progress. Mental help has, e.g. Repeatedly call upon drug titration, forced titration, drug use, etc. which can be used to assess success in institutions that treat people with psychiatric challenges. A mental - health professional notes that it has taken State Review seven months to obtain data from the Ministry of Health, which indicates the level of improvement due to the collection and implementation of data in the seminary. It was only reviewed by a board of directors and patrols. It was difficult for a Government Accounting to get information when the report was being completed, and of course it's not good enough. A government accountant focused on the fact that, despite the fact that this was done during the Covid period, this was not an explanation for the late reporting. Of course, this need to be corrected. We all know that the work of the State Reexamination is under the invitation of the Generals, and this is a speculative surveillance of the European Commission which must be active. Whether the Ministry or the agencies under the council may respond late when this information is called. I would like to mention at the end, and perhaps I'll take a better look at it in a second talk, one of the biggest problems when it comes to mental - health issues. It is people who suffer from alcoholism or who are dealing with addiction. That problem is not only about those people but also about those who have to endure their consequences. It is a problem that reaches into other systems of society, social services, child protection, prisons, the justice system, law enforcement, and all of that. In my second speech, I may find it easier to do so. I just wanted to say at the end that we shouldn't forget about it - when we're putting up a report like this and we're dealing with the terms thrown out of it and we're supposed to explain some of the underlying problems - behind this all there are people. In many cases, there are very sick people. When we're talking about a system, when we're talking about gray areas, when we're talking about manpower problems or that the systems don't talk or something like that, there are people behind it, people who are probably in one of the most vulnerable positions of all who rely on community support. Of course, we should be very aware of this when we are going through this report, and we also consider it when we then discuss possible improvements based on it. I don't think there's anyone who's been through this report that there's a lot of work to do to get things straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u91	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for a nice talk. This is a significant offense, this report. I'm assuming the members of the Board of Directors and Control have covered it thoroughly, and there will be some discussion about this. That's what happened to you. Then a senator is the problem that is so difficult in so many ways. These people have had to contend with prejudice for a long time. The problem can be quite small, and likely there are mental health problems at times that can increase if people do not get attention and help early enough. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator quoted at the highest. The minister of finance, who blew up when asked about the challenges of design and financial problems of the health system, spoke of the application to mental health. Now it's like a pack of whales. A senator, along with other classes, was approved here as a pact proposal to subsidize psychology services, which is probably one of the first stages of failure to get into more trouble together. When the senator agrees with me that it's kind of hefty already. A minister speaks of a parish when the government has not even been able to grant the budget and desire for financial contributions as the entire Council, all members of Congress, and all the Ministers just adopted a few months ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the Logi of Einarsson's son. I'm glad that I can communicate with him. I cut this down in today's unprepared inquiry session at the highest level. Secretary of finance. It was spoken of this application in mental - health matters. I don't know how many events I had in the campaign with VG's candidates who were constantly talking about the application of mental health. Of course, we are looking at a report that takes a point position in how the system is at a certain time. But when groups that have been in power together - three for five years and two virtually uninterrupted since 2013 and more and less in power together or separately throughout the republican season - it is really strange how one is going to run away from the problem and start talking about some parish. Of course, this report is just a point position at a particular time and tells us that those who have been conducting mental health care in general have failed the test. Well, that's not the focus. You were right. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson pointed out that if people don't care for and promote psychological services, it'll create a problem later on. It's, for example. What mental - health help is a great deal to discuss in his review of this report. In the large context of this, there is too much money on psychiatric matters to the result, but very little in the cause, in health care and prevention, some early examination. A mental - health professional's appointments can prevent large expenditures in the system later on. I still can't understand how it is that it is so difficult to finance what the General Committee has approved here for not long to turn to psychological services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u93	Mr. President. That's right. The report is about this so - called application only. It speaks of the need and demand for mental - health services being increased each year. The report puts it this way: Despite what may be called a lawsuit, governments are able to ensure what is needed under the expectations. I guess that doesn't even mean you can't hold on to it. In traditional sports, running, and so forth, it may be difficult to interpret as a parish if the results were worse each year. The report also says that the Ministry of Health has not formally evaluated the effectiveness of programme 2011-2020. I ask, " Isn't this part of the problem? ' There's always committees and groups of consultations and other such things, and all of that sounds beautiful, plan of action can sound beautiful. But is the premise not to examine the effectiveness of the operation before making a decision as to what the next step should be? Because it's the highest. The secretary of finance also said this morning that it was the General Assembly to blame, that it was the General who gave the capital, that I would like to ask again for the Senate resolution of the psychiatric subsidies. Has a what? A senator saw that the General has any opportunity to make a change and have it approved in connection with the financial program? Does he think that there is any possibility that those in charge will come with us?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u94	A respectable president. Yeah, this communication is beginning to remind us of the radio in the old days, and the technology is picking us up, you know, when they pushed the wrong button somewhere. But as for that, as a matter of course. A senator comes in, you see, it's something special. Of course, it is not possible to blame the government for this. The General Assembly has the budget. If only the government knew someone at the council who could pull some strings and fix it. It's the responsibility fear I'm always talking about. There's no funding at all - you'll have to talk to the council, according to the Commission. A human problem - he just came to us somehow, and we are not responsible for it. Of course, this is the situation in which humans are in control of certain groups of people, not just for a year or two, but even for decades. V.E.G. The 2013 Ministry of finance that we witness in this country has been uninterrupted, apart from the fact that he spent a few months at the Ministry of Presidency, where I understand that men also have some authority. I can't say anything but that it's just the classic responsibility of those who can at least not explaining that they have been so short with the group that they will be given room for action. I hope that people will be content to fulfill the promises made by the Council to the people and the people in a more delicate position that psychological services will be supplied. It's certainly gonna cost some money, but as we were discussing earlier, there's no question that some sort of intervention will end up saving expenses later. I think that's sort of what everybody agrees on. In fact, there are a lot of things in this system of ours that, of course, responding sooner to an event reduces the cost that others would eventually fall to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u95	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson for a good introduction to this discussion. I decided that in his speech, he put it as if the so - called designer had not fallen from heaven. I couldn't agree more with the senator. It's been lying for years, and many times it's been pointed out, including. of trade unions below, whether it is nurses, midwives, psychiatrists, or other health - care professionals. There are also many who are studying and how many are on their way. I'd like to go inside. A member of the council, depending on whether he agrees that the government, the government, should use it to attract people to study articles that we know we need, e.g. In terms of health care groups working in the field of mental - health care so that we can unwind our design problems and ensure that new ones are needed, even if only because people are getting older and out of a job market. When I talk about willies, I may be discussing something that has to do with the student's education education and/or paid for it and what is done in our neighboring countries. We need to use ourselves to get people into this study and to get people to serve in the medical system. It should be so that the environment, ideal, and working conditions are attractive. If we can get more people to ourselves, I think it'll be easier to make the situation easier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u96	Mr. President. The short answer to ask why. A senator is too simply: Yes, I agree that it needs a good and thorough lie. I did this in my speech earlier. In the perfect world, we would have no need for any design or such. Then the people would just stream to where the need was most urgent. But we are here talking about health care, about mental - health care, which is a very important service. In my first speech, I reviewed that at least it is missing. The 50 status of nurses, ten trained mental - health professionals, and ten other health - care professionals - this is according to the informal assessment of Land Hospital and their lack of mental - health care. Of course, when this is the case, we need to consider some kind of reaction. If we do not ponder over a reaction, either nothing will change or the situation will simply get worse. Then we're, by making a decision not to think about some sort of injury or trying somehow to steer people in this direction, just a little to give up, I'd count. Of course, it would be most enjoyable to answer that question, if possible, if the world were perfect, in that they should not need any indiscretions, people will just find their way and everything will sort it out in some way. But it's just as it is, when it comes to construction and other factors, that we sometimes have to face some kind of effort to let something off the deck. And when we're talking about sensitive service, such as mental - health care, and there are dozens of people who need people who are very sick, I'm sure that I'm a total of them that can be used the systems and resources we have to try to attract people to study and then to work on these important mails.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u97	Mr. President. We'll discuss a report on mental health care examination, considered a greater part of the management and monitoring committee. Hv. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddottir, chairman of the Committee, have been reviewing the main points of the report. I'm not going to use my speech here in order to trace everything back, but there are some points that I would like to include in this discussion. First of all, I want to say that I consider a report by the National Retrospectives on Mental Health to be of enormous value. It is extensive and long, and it offers indications that I believe are important to those who smell on the system and the community at one time, and they have to consider the matter. Actually, it is to make up the department committees that have answered that they take their report to heart and examine it. It has been observed in the discussion that some feel that the report is a complete loss to Icelandic mental - health services. I don't think it is, though, that there is certainly much better to go. Happily, a discussion of the condition of mental health has changed. This applies to the professional services of health - care institutions and to those who need to use mental - health services but also to the vision of rural society and our social discussions, our estimates that build this community. Happily, our view of mental health has been changing. We are taking it seriously that mental health is important and that it is important that those who need appropriate service receive it. Of course, this means making adjustments in how we have done things, and there is also a need to correct things. This is explained in the report, and this is considered in the opinion of the National Reexamination Organization for Mental Health in accordance with government policies, but there are certain problems on the system that reduce the effectiveness of implementation. Then it's traced and listed where these major problems are, and I think it's important that we take these tips seriously and work on them. In addition, over the past few years, there have been some basic changes in mental - health care, which have proved to be well - tested, but there is still room for further improvement. It says that there have been improvements in legalization of health care for the first, second and third stages, but there is a greater need for a clearer understanding of the boundary between that level and any service, as well as the need for better coordination and coordination between service levels. Since it has been mentioned here in our discussion that we in the left green have wanted to be proud of what has been done in health care and health care, I believe that this is just one of the things that have been done, which is of utmost importance. A report published by the National Review Office will also discuss that the development of mental health problems as well as the growth of psychological services at health clinics is another fundamental change that has increased access to national - health services. This is something that we in the left green just stressed, and we are happy, of course, that for the Committee it was generally described as a general pleasure with the appearance of mental health and the cross-cutting approach that is being carried out in the pools, but it is certainly pointed out that they need further support. It is noted that social services should arrive at the table. I think it's important, and I believe this shows that markets were important policy. Rome was not built in one day, and this must be continued, but we have a good foundation that really matters. It is also important to take it positive from such a report and to build on it, just as it would be to take to heart what is suggested as to better off. A human being is one of the things mentioned, and I believe we here at the General Need even asking ourselves, " How can I deal with this? ' It is absolutely clear that there are other staff who are needed to work in the health care department. We talk very often about the lack of nurses, and he is there, but so are other professions. I think it is important that we think in solutions to making the work environment attractive for people to choose to be educated in these articles, as well as in ways where people are interested in working since what they have educated themselves. I think it's a good idea to have some kind of motivation for that system. This has also been discussed in the context of increasing the number of health - trained workers in the country. I think we should take this into consideration and make adjustments, and this is an important point. It was discussed in the report, and a significant discussion was made by a management and monitoring committee, the need to promote external and diagnostic, and even collection of information. Of course, it is important that statistics can be taken out of the data so that we know what the trend is when it comes to knowing who is looking for mental health care. At that time, I felt that it was just as important, as is the case with the lack of information on the use of force and forced care. It is natural that there is an enormous amount of intervention in people's lives, and, of course, when such dramatic delinquency is administered, it is a clear law regarding when to resort to some kind of pressure, as well as the fact that it is written. This has been discussed here, including in relation to observations made by the General Assembly agent on the basis of OPCAT, and bills have been submitted by health-care advisers at least two of them, but their treatment is not completed here at the council and has had to be performed even better. It was discussed on the committee that mental - health services and rules need to be in step with the human rights of people. This may not be directly discussed in the report, but I believe that we, as members of the Parliament, need to make sure things work together, that's something I think we should totally take to ourselves. It was also noted in committee discussions that despite the general enjoyment of mental - health jobs, as I did earlier, there is the motivation to dismiss difficult matters. It was an example of people with complex problems or those with developmental impairment that may have difficulty fitting into these mental - health teams. I think it's extremely important that we take care of this and that mental health teams will be strengthened in this regard. Of course, in line with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, disabled people get health care as much as others do. There are some things that are highlighted in the report, both the things that have been done well and better. I think we're just supposed to keep an eye on the fact that it will be done, because in the left movement, we've been talking about the nation's health in a broad sense and that it's the best interests of all of us to be people of health care, prevention, and mental health. So we should take the report seriously, continue to make sure that the work is done properly, and improve further. [[The president calls.]] But we should also take the critical points to heart and make sure that they do better. I guess my speech is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u98	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator before the talk, and he understood a talk. A senator, in spite of everything, felt that she was no longer so bad because so many things had been done on the watch of the left green. But, Madam President, it is clearly stated in this report that there is a lack of perspective on the whole level of the case, and there is a lack of analysis of services and human resources and financial needs and the actual cost of mental health care. When we are dealing with mental health care policies to 2030, which now exist on the welfare committee, it has also been reported that governments do not know the need for service, but it is clear that the problem is high and increasing, and as noted in the report, the number of people in microenergy or psychiatric rehabilitation has increased by about 30% since 2010•2020 during the growing population growth by 15%. It's a pretty smart indication that there's something going on that we need to look at. There are 8,300 individuals who are emotionally disabled or inaccessible. In 2020 we've talked about it, I think only every year I've been at a council that's now approaching 13, I think that that that's when we've talked about the big groups that have to trust in social security, disability benefits, they're the ones with psychiatric disorders or musculoskeletal problems. My question to why. A senator is: Have we not slept on our watch, and are governments really doing enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u99	Hv. 7. Smoke. n., Árnadóttir Thornadnadóttir. Madam President. In fact, I feel that I have been very critical in my speech about the need to do better in mental health, but I feel that it is also important to maintain the quality that has been done well in our last years so that we can continue to build on it and mention points just listed in a Kingdom report, a review, an end. I think, unfortunately, it's now that it's always possible to improve the community, and it's certainly possible to improve the system when it comes to finding jobs, and where I believe that the emphasis that is being involved now, which is about to be a part of being an adult and living in disability, is a part of being an adult and a community so it needs to improve systems. This calls for increasing rehabilitation, making sure that you get a job. It is now working at the Department of Social Affairs, Social Services, and the Department of Employment that makes me feel that it is just being reasonable, both in this report that we have to do better, and there are many but also to maintain the level that has been going well and building on top of it. There'll be an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u100	Yes, Madam President, I have only one minute, I understand, in this second answer. Today, the World Health Organization has talked about and is concerned that the next pandemic is cold from health care professionals, and it is being discussed in this report because there is no staff and education and opportunities as we know are not being offered. It is important to keep experienced people, and we need drastic measures, not both mental - health care but health care. The same day, I received an answer about those who make use of services, active, and new individuals from January 1, 2021/2021. April 2022. When it becomes evident that 16.3% or 446 people have 2739 health and social services, nursing and care, and are not? Well, maybe. A senator didn't agree with me that we need drastic measures to cope with both stress and then the need for service? That's when the answer to the second one will be respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u101	Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn Árnadóttir yearingóttir, and it has one minute, Madam President, and I actually brought it into my speech, that there is concern that there is a lack of staff in the medical sector. Not only are nurses lacking all kinds of health, education, staff, and I think there are also a number of highly educated, socially educated staff that are industrious, and more and more, they need to improve the work environment, I think, because it is important that people stay at work. These are often large women's classes, and they divide the current work and have actually been going on for a long time, but they are still working to reduce sexual satisfaction. It's just a big equation into this situation, so taking the remuneration is one of the factors involved. That's what it'll do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u102	Yes, Madam President, thank you. A senator is eager for the talk that I am about to take advantage of only the opportunity to answer that this is a question of how a person chooses his point of view. I couldn't hear any better at what I heard. A senator, but that the report was quite nice, would be there some indiscretions that would otherwise be pointed out to her would just be pretty good. I notice that the executives here are speaking a little about what he says in the report. In principle, a health - care organization is in accordance with government policies at three service levels and that the right service should be performed in the right place. Thus, there should be the tendency to promote success in the group of liters. There are, however, certain weaknesses on the system that reduce the effectiveness of implementation. On this point, men have made a little bit of a move, not the direction that is wrong with them. They may also be able to read other chapters of the report, such as to form a requirement and need for mental - health services in Iceland, each year increasing. Despite a class attendance, governments can ensure that the services needed to meet expectations and wait for service in general are too long and not in accordance with government goals. The Icelandic government lacks perspective on mental health status, but data on the incidence of psychiatric development are not available and there has not been a diagnosis of services and the need for human wasteland hospitals know how to maintain a central waiting list. There is no information on the need and the actual cost of available mental - health services. The figures of an unexpected incident involving mental - health services are not readily available, and this is also true of many complaints. A surgeon's office is not available for the implementation of the force of forcedness. It is also called the gray areas where individual resources are passed and where appropriate services are not provided. These areas have been known for a long time, but there is no use in reducing them, and then it is also said that despite the fact that humans have actually carried on that assignment, they have not really been able to find any place to report. It's incredibly dark, it's kind of a total carbon sentence for the groups that have taken control of these cases, so I'd like to ask the highest degree. Yeah. A senator whether he would agree that the divisions of the administrations during the last terms, all that came out, are not to be presented in this report on any other page.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u103	The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. Madam President. In my speech about the reports and opinions of the management and monitoring committee, I discussed the vast majority of the factors involved. A senator mentioned things that could be done better, so I'm not trying to cross over it unless, in fact, he admitted it. I didn't talk about gray areas. I simply didn't have time for that in my speech. It's certainly a place where we need to improve, and I specifically discussed the need to be careful when there's an indication of the Opcat operation. It is a task that is still in store for us. I don't know exactly what the purpose is to stand here in some debate over words, whether this is a coal - black report or a report that sent helpful tips on things that are extremely important to be delivered. There's definitely some things we need to make up for here. But as I have said many times before, there are also things that are working well, and I surely rejoice that discussions about mental health are increasing with better - quality products as a community to require better mental - health care. That would have been very good. Has this discussion been taken to this place ten years ago? If so, we would certainly have a better system, where I just say, " Let's take this report and work as long as it continues, both positive and positive, but, of course, with what needs to be done much better. '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u104	One or two. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson has a minute to do that. Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much. Of course, what kind of glasses we wear when we are reading this report simply because if we are going to be successful with the system and the policy in the next few years, we have to read it correctly. We need to evaluate these factors and examine them so that we can make some difficulty in saving ourselves rather than talking about the fact that these are just certain shortcomings that need to be corrected or something. It's so much deeper than then, and I didn't quite quite finish my dot here in my previous answer. Of course, this is so that when we have groups that are on the far right and the longest left on the political spectrum, dealing with a policy and system that is involved in providing health care, of course, the recipe is somehow from the whole thing somewhere between that it doesn't happen to any creation. And that's what we saw in our last term. And on account of that as a dog. A senator is here, and I fear that it will now be accomplished. Despite the fact that the new sect has now removed the other two classes from the snare by accepting the office of health - care ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u105	There's been a bit of a long time. paritaprevir Mr. President, the Steinunn of Árnadóttir's year's daughter. Excuse me at the Council. Well, that's just fine. Madam President. No, I don't think health services paid anything for the fact that different classes of government officials have simply been emphasised on this government on health matters, and during the last term, it was emphasised on promoting the public health system. That's fine. All I've seen is that I've been at the top of the world. A health minister wants to do well in these matters, so I don't really know what the problem is. A senator is trying to figure out that he is trying to create some sort of problem that I don't think is so profound because I've been able to see that all of us who have spoken here today in this discussion of mental health agree that this is an important case and that we need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u106	Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Madam President, thank you. A senator before the speech, and I would like to enter, because the Senator spoke of important mental health problems, spoke of policy and action in the last government, where the left of green had only the Ministry of Health to what is expressed in terms of the greater part of the management and monitoring committee only to legalize the transition of health care to three points as well as the transmission of mental health care, and then this immediately into the health care clinic which they have at this time to deal with these, second-order examples, further. The hospital is the first - level hospital hospital, and then it is the mental - health professionals with this level of mild, mental illness, trauma, anxiety, and other factors that are then about to think further if they are not met by people who wrestle with them, the challenges that are likely to grow and expand, and they have been shown here in various last respects by the court. paritaprevir For this reason, the daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir's new daughter is growing disability and how large its proportions are so that aging is to be drawn that way. For example, because this difficult situation in the hospital and in the service of the third degree of mental health benefits are now being made up of psychiatric problems, the treatment is getting a little heavier and the removal of the first phase of service. I would say that in view of the experience we now have Asia is a complete and complete approach, and in view of the fact that the report speaks of our lack of perspective, and that I must say, with the permission of Mrs. President, is nothing other than a sentence against us who are here and those who are in charge of a lack of any other perspective on the state of affairs. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator is concerned with me as to whether we're latering on funding within these three ladders so that this weaker service to mild mental illness will explode and it will explode further into our faces.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u107	Hv. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. Madam President. I think this is an important question. A member of the congregation is wondering if the ministry is being improved. I just don't really have the knowledge to know if it is. But I think, at any rate, based on what is currently available, there needs to be a further increase in the availability of psychological services within the health care department. It has been shown that the demand is greater than possible, well, more than what has been in or what has been achieved in the area than whether there is a laterage or whether there is an increase in the second phase of service because there is new treatments that are available to mental - health teams, I do not trust to say. But I think it's just a very worthy thing to observe because it's important that people get services at a suitable location and we often talk a lot about the importance of access to a psychological service that I agree with and I agree with. However, it has also been suggested that there are other classes that increase access to developing within the health care system that could also be of concern, too exactly, helping to get people help at this first stage of the ministry. So that's kind of the best answer I can give to each other. A member of the council here, however, believes that this is one of the very factors involved in paying attention to the importance of getting the service in the right place of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u108	It gives an answer to a second one. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson Madam President. I've got a minute now. I'm just gonna go grab a few. I thank you for the answer, and I just wanted to continue on the same path because if it turns out that the weight of the hospital moves on to the health care unit, it's taking care of those with the most difficult problems. That's understandable too. The result. Foreseeable results, based on warnings from the mental - health clinic, are that there is no room for attention. These are two options. There is going to be psychological services needed by psychologists in a town that is uncontracted or that people end up serving an active place that is doing a very good service. That's what they're doing. Then we have to be so fucked up that their activities in society have become so weak, so after all, and I might want to, we've come to the therapists who have no contract, and yet, in the report, "I'm looking out as well as I'm saying, "I'm so sorry, I don't have to deal with psychologists, so sorry." They do it, or rather, inadvertent with a cuter, can be said to do it so that I do it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because we don't always agree on the approach of experts to our system. It is to those who do not work in the government institutions. Does he not believe that these contracts will be concluded, and this psychologist with his knowledge and experience and education may come at full length into this project with us?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u109	The answer to the second time, what? paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra the Year's Árnadóttir. Madam President. Yes, although I and others in the left green have stressed public health systems and have been delighted that psychologists are working within the medical field. Of course, we believe that it is important that people also have access to psychological services in other parts of society and that it is only a fact that they have not been signed by independent psychologists, and I believe that it is important to work on them and reach them contracts. But as I said before, I also believe that as important as psychologists, they are not the only health profession in this, which is important for people to have paid access to. At times, it may be occupational therapists, physical therapists. There are other health - care groups that are important to come in from the common health, mental health, and prevention of all. This needs to be handled in a variety of ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u110	Madam President. The report we address here is that there can be no more than a judgment against how this class has been held. Under normal circumstances, it would be the first news report in all news periods, so anxiety is the result of this report. It is clear, then, that there was a basis for requesting this report and right to thank a former senator and a well - respected deputy of Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Avenger for having fought for this report, since this report is certainly not unnecessary. And to underscore the depth of the criticism, I'm going to first call attention to a few phrases from the text of The State's Review of the Work at this report, as this will tell me a story about the content and perhaps suggest why the sentence is the person it is but the Government's examination. A reexamination, with the permission of the president, says: "Surprisingly, the required answers and information from the Ministry of Health were received, as well as the obtaining of cost figures. A reexamination was required for months to be asked for answers to certain questions despite the narrations. Also, finding meeting hours was difficult. At the same time, government reviews feel that some of the ministry's answers have been blurred and unconvinced at the time they were finally received. This may well tell us a story about why the situation is as described in the report. This is a system problem, an extremely broad system problem if it's the right thing to do. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson described from now on as a system based on people, but it is the government's job to ensure that the system and people inside the assigned work and the system work for people who are working within the system, but the system also works for this service, those who need to rely on it. Three main topics of this report request No. 2 is what the main weaknesses are in the administration of the seminary. Of course, it was very detailed, but I would have wanted to take more care of the great problems that my opinion is lacking in prevention, lacking in considering that in time the problem of the system and, of course, the problem of its clients will be the one he has clearly become according to this report, and it will be discussed considerably about waiting time and not lacking need. In view of other health care services, the waiting period for the psychology service is 53/4/5 months for half a year afterwards in August 2021. This is also related to the importance of prevention because if you have to wait for six months to have time, of course it will not help you to improve the situation with the sooner you can cope and grab the more likely it will be to your success, and the obvious suffering of the person offering you a much smaller one, and it is also stated that mental health teams, mental health teams, East and West have about five months'wait. This reminds us of what has actually been discussed here at the council and in the community talk, the general state of mental health in the country. However, in spite of extensive discussion, the response has not been consistent with the extent of the problem and the waiting period for development and behavioural center 12◯24 months of 1◯2 years, and with a mean period of third degree health care, the average waiting months in July 2021 ADHD teams. They stop talking about a month, and they say the waiting period is at least three years. And what would happen at that time and what would have been a barrier or a tunnel to how much more could have been helped if the waiting period was not this. This d m team, 18◯20 months, depression and anxiety, group 6◯12 months, on-going eating-instructions of 18-520 months. The waiting time, some of these people, may simply be in danger of death. This government has been proud to have the best interests of the children without showing any significant results in this area some dissensions of institutions and their names have been attacked, even changed, and so on. But what is the result? We will see a report by Kingdom Review that the waiting period for the children and teenage department of the Land Hospital has increased and 7.4 months in 2017 for 8.7 months in 2020. In Akureyri, 24 people wait on the waiting list, and those who are looking for assistance there are in many cases people who are urgently in need of immediate assistance. There are 24 waiting lists of 24 vulnerable individuals and a National Reexamination point out that in September 2021, the mean waiting time for a treatment period in Vogi was 40 to 150 days. They are people who have made a big decision but have already made a decision to seek help because of an addiction problem, but the nature of a case may not be able to keep out without assistance for 40 in the past 50 days, and the risk that the person may withdraw or land further in such a way that it is all learned from the book. There is a big problem with a waiting list, and there seems to be a lack of either will or organization or both to deal with it, and even as in the case of the UYA, governments begin to attract those who perform this service, as in fact some other independent organizations, not to mention private business in the medical field, where at least During the last term, and I have not experienced a change in this terms, governments have actually become more distant from those who are independent of themselves in this field of health care, and I want to round the service together in the state that is out of control, and the State's review points to some key numbers and examples. that in 2011●2020 an average of 44,260 women and health - care professionals per year were affected by mental and behavioural disorders, with an increase of 91% during the national period while the service station increased by 81%. At the same time, however, the number of people in the long - range service of the Land Hospital increased by 3,930% during that period, 2011,2020. And, of course, it is normal for the increase to occur if these measures have been taken up at the beginning of the period but are beyond this period. This needs to be considered in the context of the increase at the same time in demand and need for other services, and members of the council have noted that the report shows that the increase in the number of people in the disability or rehabilitation for mental illness has taken 30 percent in the 1990 '90s,2020 at the same time as the population grew by 15%. Then we come back to this with preventatives and reasons, and we need to be more aware of the reason why the increase has been so great, because it cannot be found and will not be able to deal with the problem if people do not know why the problem is that he is and has grown so much, and all of this, of course, requires what he is. The cost of social, insurance, and health care as a result of mental illness in 2020 was 4,1.8 billion. and estimated cost of mental health care in 2021 13,83 billion. These are large amounts, but mostly a reminder of the importance of prevention and the timely intervention that it is inexpensively more practical. Of course, it is the people who need the ministry, and it seems to me that time is involved. But only in very limited ways was I able to study the key suggestions. I'm going to start by referring to the first thing, the first chapter of the proposals to improve the importance of improving information, analysis and extramarital activities, and actually all these chapters, in terms of improvement, all the chapters on the suggestion that improvement will be more and less that the system will not work properly and include a very strong criticism of the system and the importance of correcting it. But in the first part of information, it says that it needs to increase the collection of data and treatment of data and improve access to them and to eliminate legal uncertainty that has become a significant problem in this category and beyond, since by system coverage, as we have seen in Iceland during the past year and year, there is an increase in the ambiguous and legal uncertainty, and the result is going to be more detailed in the report. It's a gray area. They do not know for sure who's responsible, who's to handle the situation, and how the cost is divided, etc. and, at the same time, it is noted that there is a real problem with the needs of people and the lack of perspective on the cost and the amount of resources and how to deal with them. You cannot help but ask yourself, " Why has this not been done? ' Because this is not the first time we discuss the problem of this group. But the response, based on this judgment that the report has been very low. The defects of the arrangement and, in effect, the leadership of the government, the government of this class, continue to be identified, and they spoke of the need to ensure continuous service and to improve cooperation and coordination between institutions. There has been a very significant lack, and because of the lack of time, patients land between ships and docks, since the cooperation of the system is not working properly, and there are some proposed improvements or suggestions that I don't have time to trace, but clearly a full reason to engage in these fixations, allowing the system to function as a whole and patients not to be sent back and forth, or to get into some absolute uncertainty state in some gray areas. Madam President. I can see that I can't go far over the suggestions. In fact, this has been done in the discussion to date. I'm going to pray to the highest. President to put me back on the rosary, for there are a number of points here that I need special attention in this striking, review of how this case has been held, and there will be more suggestions for improvement than to be considered as a mental - health review of this report. There are important additional points that I think need to redesign here and, uh... As a result, things that I am deeply concerned about have not been taken in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u111	Madam President. I want to thank you. Gunnlaugsson I agree with his use of words here that went through the talk that this is, of course, just a judgment. It's a dark report, and it doesn't matter how you try to get up here in a speech chair, one after the other members of the board. You can't escape the fact that it's here. In recent years and even decades, this is an amazing award to those who have been responsible for this class. I'm going to say thank you. A senator brought here in the beginning because I could see that it was a whale. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir and members of the Central Party. Others and why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, who asked for this report in his day, is invaluable to have it to discuss now that we are about to enter only a new term. But, hey. A senator came in on a design problem. He only and I always think a little bit about it when it's being discussed that it was now referred to here at an unsubstantiated question period today, where they were talking about capitals that are missing from the system, and then they're referring to a design problem, and then it comes to the top. Secretary of finance up and talking. There is no need for funding into the system, and this is a microchip, like the macaroni problem is something that fell from the sky and is not a solution to the politics or the responsibility of the politicians who are in the government and have been done for a long time, and I was just going to go for a while. A senator by whether he will be or if he agrees with me in that there is a certain responsibility, always escapes when we are talking about the big movie in these cases, so whether it can be handled somehow, so he doesn't have to deal with it that much because it can't be solved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u112	A man named Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Madam President. Of course, these are likely close - to - choice people have more than most others to say about how successful they are in recruiting or how people are inciting people to take a certain course of study. They need to imagine that at a job that educates itself, this can be acceptable. But I think it's important to keep in mind that there are other factors involved in working conditions, and this was a significant matter, including of myself, talking about building with the Land Hospital on Ring Road. That's why you became very aware that among the general staff at the hospital, they wanted to go all the other way to improve the job. It didn't work out. But there's something else that has to do with this: competition, that these people have the option to work in more than one place, that they don't see that if you intend to or intend to work with what they've educated to do, there's only one place available. Was one of the workplace possible to improve the work environment and to offer a competitive wage, and that is why I have to say, in particular, the Independence Party, that everyone, including the State, has been in this government for five years, and actually the Ministry of finance, much longer, as before. A senator traced a speech earlier, not to the point of promoting the benefits, but to the contrary, let the left movement go completely with the green supply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u113	It gives an answer to a second one, what. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator is very, very, very special, and this is exactly the case. We have to be careful to build the system up so that not all will be sucked into one workplace. The system needs to be more broad on it, including certain aspects of it than it does to countries or rural groups. It can be a business organization or company, but with the premise that it is guaranteed that personal management is good and that it is clear what is involved in the price and price of any kind of service and all of it. Of course, this would make the work environment more attractive if there were any competition for this inside the system. But I also wanted to ask what. A member of Congress on the fact that when it comes to government thought to attract special attention to the fact that there is a degree of discrimination built into the mental health system in Iceland and realize that not everyone is sitting at the same table and that this is, of course, something we have to make from a farm, that access to services differs and that no one wants to have it that way. Yet, that is the case. However, it is also said in Government Accounting that this is also about the economy and the type of mental disorder, to be said. This is a distinction between economics, mental disorders, and habitats. Discrimination also involves the fact that certain groups end up in so - called gray areas, and they do not qualify for services, including Because of vague responsibilities and costs change, lack of capital, design, and resources, or other causes. I'm simply reading this text so that somehow we've built a system and we haven't intended for what really means that people are discriminated against. It's just the exact way the system works. Different differences are built into the system itself, and I was going to ask you why. A senator will see if he can read the same information from the report as I do with it. It's not only about the farm but also about what kind of person it is. This is the economy responsible. The switch between state and rural society makes it impossible for some to get service and so on the streets and to see if this is not a major concern in the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u114	Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Madam President. Hv. A member of this report considers a very significant point that I could not review in my brief speech. But it's how, as it is said, the system creates an endogenous discrepancy. In fact, we need to assume that the system is not intended to be designed or designed to create a discrepancy, whether computers that remain in their habitat or economy, or hopefully mental illness. But because the system doesn't work because the system is defective, this is the result. This is another example of an attack on legislation or policy on the part of the government that aims to explain the objectives, the package rather than the contents and the actual effects of what is being done. When you see that the real effects of this system problem are what they are. Then you have to change. The system has to be fixed, and several government ministers have recognized that this is not just a mental health problem but that health issues are generally a problem. But then nothing happens in fixing the system and then in danger of taking an extreme example in this context. But it's just to put things in perspective that the systems intended to achieve maximum equations, the systems of many Eastern European countries, e.g. For the fall of the wall. What did they get? They were returning the wrong result, away from stated goals. As a result, there was a rift between individuals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u115	Yes, Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk, and I want to agree with him when he speaks of this report as a judgment. It certainly is, and there may be me and the other. A senator does not agree on how to process the report, but it at least helps to determine what it is, what we actually have when it comes to mental health. It has been so that those who suffer from mental illness have not received guidance through the system. It may not be difficult to define the user through the system, and it may be understandable that it has not been difficult to do so because there are a lot of people offering services and people and those who are dealing with a mental disorder who may already have looked here and there before being instructed or landing on someone who can really help them. And so this is what I think can be that part of this problem is that health authorities don't have the perspective, they don't know what the service needs are, so it's gonna be hard to make contracts, and it's such a risk that those who want to sell the state's service, that it's those who define the needs, who come with the service contract, and say they know things well, and they're worth it. I just want to ask you what. A senator whether he cannot see that the system is a waste in this respect too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u116	Sigmundur President, although I am and am. Harðardóttir With all due Gunnlaugsson, the senator may not agree on everything. A senator with a very interesting point, which I think is that those who speak for increased service on the part of their own or personal members need to look into. You're absolutely right. This danger exists, but it is primarily because it lacks perspective on the government, as the report repeatedly shows, and this is why these gray areas, known as "the gray zones " and individuals, such as rich government reviews, are said to happen when people land in gray areas or in cross - resolutions. There is an increased risk of getting away with setting the needs aside. However, it also points to the need to ensure that, according to the definitions and criteria for waiting time, there is a need to ensure that there is a time for appropriate mental - health care services and that the only way to do so is to facilitate and equal access to mental - health services, including health care. by completing our contract with independent active psychiatrists and psychiatrists. And that hasn't been achieved by this government, and I don't think the will was there. So I'll tell you what. At that time, I can agree that the points mentioned are something that the State needs to look out for and keep in mind, but they do not prevent the government from taking advantage of those who are best qualified to do the work. However, there is also a need to know what the assignment is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u117	Second time back then. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir. Madam President. In his speech, there went agitation. A senator might well cover the waiting list that faces children in trouble. Childhood is only a set number of years, and it's barely enough for that. They'll get a solution. There is a need to wait for diagnosis, and then when the diagnosis has arrived, I have to wait for the ministry and the problem is growing, and I am deeply concerned about this situation in my children. But it is when it comes to mental health and health matters. It is generally said that early intervention is needed to ensure that the problem does not occur, and in proposal for a conjugal resolution of mental health policy to 2030, as a well - known health committee is now being developed in team one: mental development, prevention. Early measures will become the basis for individual mental health and special emphasis for the year 2030. to introduce fundamental aspects of action programmes, mental status, work, prevention and child support in play, basic and high school schools that are designated by health care. That sounds really good to me. But I'd like to ask why. A senator whether he has found the budget for this year and in the budget for the next five years how this strategy should be financed and whether we are not just having enough policy and beautiful words, whether it is not time to make time and financial action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u118	Then the answer to the second one answers, "What? " paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Madam President. Hv. A senator describes what I believe is the main problem of politics these days. It's all about packaging and declarations rather than content and content. Hv. A senator of the former financial minister and long worked on a financial committee, and work diligently to point out the importance of the importance of the funding of the promises and, of course, of course, that there is some action plan on how things should be carried out. It's got absolutely nothing to do with this, including of children's domain, of the affairs of this government, or at least part of her, has tried much to decorate. But then you start to look at yourself like a dog. A senator mentioned earlier, what's really happening? What's the money going on? What real changes take place? There is much to be found, for much of this has been about more than just the declarations of the Ministry as it changes something, generates an image, and is repeated introductory plans for this sect, especially after which nothing is followed. There is nothing complete, as if the aim was primarily to introduce the plans rather than to perform them. And we'll see that even. in this report we're discussing here, that this great child issue, that the government for its time has covered the state of the children and youth department of the Land Hospital, where waiting had become long but has grown very significant in the years that this government has served since 2017, from 7.4 months to 8.7 in 2001, 20. And I'm afraid the waiting lists might be even longer. After all, it's all on the same book. They've gotten longer and longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u119	South, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Madam President. Senators, members of administration and monitoring committees, revered and other members of the Parliament here at this report have done well and carefully reviewing the main points of this report is certainly sufficient to address. They have carefully considered the situation in general and expectations and suggestions for improvement. Of course, as we have seen, this is not necessarily the situation itself that this report describes as a surprise. To that end, we have simply heard an emergency call from the system as well as from the people working there. We know, it's a pot broken in many places, but there's a certain crisis in reality, this summary is so black in white, which is simply determined that it's just said that at the same time as the demand and need for mental - health services has been growing constantly between years, then the government can ensure the necessary service under expectations simply and wait too long, as it is a shock to see this confirmation of it striking. It is the fact that the government lacks perspective on the situation. We are again and again getting this grade when they are taking certain classes of issues that have to do with fires not merely offering resources, but they lack the perspective. The result, of course, is that action will not be determined. Time and again, we are even seeing that we lie under the leak in one place by injecting a hole elsewhere, so this is a system entry rather than actual improvements. It's just a result of the situation and the fact that it is so bent that it lacks this perspective that hopefully it will be there to learn. In view of the fact that material has been done well, I want to focus especially on what is called the primary kind of mental - health service, such as other health care services have been established by the laws of this stage of the ministry and the first phase of the service. It is a service to people with mild mental illness, anxiety, depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, even eating disorders, and it is a service that is mainly diseased by the medical clinic that has been added. Today, however, mental - health professionals also present themselves as volunteers for a multidisciplinary service that has been offered a second degree of mental - health care but also a third - degree mental - health intervention. It is certainly true that Government Accounting does not directly mention activeness in the report. It is known that it is the services of an active rehabilitation fund for individuals with impaired function due to health problems and the aim of increasing participation in the market. But there is no mention of active activity in the report, and it is, in effect, explained why in these words, by permission of presidents: Health and social services are considerably related, but it is decided that the content of the report was largely to the first factor, and it is the fact that active ones are linked to the Ministry of Social Affairs rather than the Ministry of Health and are linked to the work, but this natural service of nations as such. It's a fund, and as such, it carries the heat and weight of a career because of general mental illness, this so - called phase one. So it is possible that there is also a link between the absence of active activity and the service there in this case that the report primarily speaks about the languages, but perhaps less emphasis on these general mental disorders and again, as I mentioned in the past. It is understandable that since the problem is most serious, the problem is the most, the most urgent thing is to bring rocks, the focus. The problem, though, is that if we do not consider the first phase of our ministry, we are creating more difficult experiences in the near future. There are large sums of money that go to health care, and the largest service program there is just the psychological services needed for the sake of general and mild mental health. It is a feeling of anxiety and an average gain, depression, and posttraumatic stress disorder. It's a matter of serious weighting with the active and the health fund of the unions, and then it is. In the past three decades, the level of mental disorders has been the first reason for the rehabilitation of people. It has increased, so sometimes. It is sometimes claimed that mental illness is the new disability, so there is good reason to highlight this category, as well as every reason to warn that now and again it is a special challenge that is directed only on certain parts of the mental - health care program because in addition to the high health costs and pressures of the health system, this trend in recycling because it does not replace mild mental disorders, costs, and pressures on the health - care system that are highly unacceptable to the least increasing number of people in these positions of poor quality of life because it does not get the necessary help at previous levels. Hence, it was a great joy when just recently the number of psychologists within the medical facility was increasing in order to handle this group accurately. It is the mental - health team, the second - degree service, and the psychologists, so much as the joy of being employed by a special psychologist of psychological services, which was to ensure that they were new and practical and that they were the same between clinics today. On the other hand, because there is much pressure, great attendance in this service, long waiting lists, the hospital is being helped to carry out difficult tasks, the sky is taking them in some way, and evolution is also becoming the one that is, and I repeat: It's not cheap. This is understandable when we discuss that we cannot in our present circumstances provide all the services of this fanciful television with the weightiest. But it's just that it's such a wrong view. This is just so wrong to do this, pushing those who need this first level of service that would work, if I may use that word, critical therapy of psychologists, this timeless nothing seems, I don't know, five, ten, 15 times that's a lot in a system that's intertwining, but this solves people's case, so there's a certain concern. I refer to the Iceland's Psychological Association at the end of March to a declaration that expressed deep concern for these changes in mental - health care services, where the emphasis on critical psychological treatment and the coordinated service between health care centers for such things as watching, is being reduced, so if people who come and need this first degree of service are not to receive it. It is only a matter of rapid interviews and is then referred to psychologists in offices outside the state - driven system, such as actually outside the public system. While the agreement is not yet made, it is a very hard bite for very many, and second, the alternative is to stop working and enter into an active service there. So it's not a very appealing prospect, and I would've liked to see it this way more important. We're already experiencing people falling from public activity in the community because of their general mental health problems, and this gets heavier than we are on some other route and it would have been interesting to see if the government's response to this report would be really extending beyond the complete picture in which each of the three levels of mental - health services they need, but not in parallels to answer the loudest ones at every place. So the conclusion is, in effect, that this report requires us to use to get out of the tire tire - loss job of working out the long - term vision based on data and the money needed and risking action projects that are to lower the shouts, where they are at the highest rate each time. They can fully produce short-term results but long-term outcomes. She'll be even worse than she is now if we start developing these tactics. That's what I think is the lesson for me. 1 in this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u120	The answer is why. 8th yrs We're out of Suðvest. "Transun Sveinbjarnardóttir Þórunn. Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson for her part in the discussion. She concluded her talk with such a comment about it. that there was no need for and more initiative projects, and I could take my heart to that, since there is now a need for long - term dating, long - term vision, financed action, and solidarity in the need for political solidarity. However, the senator mentioned an active renewal in his case that is very important and important in the community, and it was so active, if I remember correctly, in 2008 or nine when the workforcers had actually given up to wait for the official instrument to operate properly, and therefore it was ASI, BSRB, KI, and BHM, SA, with financial agency, Reykjavíkurborg, the pay committees for active employment funds that operate as an autobetation agency and that are very important work in this country, but the matter is active and being employed as a work force. Of course, people who suffer from various health problems are welcomed. More often than not, it is because of circumstances in a job market that can, of course, be many and varied. But also because of other illnesses or traumas, or because of others. What I might want to point out in this context is, of course, how many can render that service. But such activities as the active one may not replace what the government needs to give.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u121	Senator Hanna Katrín Friðriksson Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir, and for the opposition, we are now very few in this room or in here at the council today who know this matter are very effective. A senator does in the light of his previous employment, and this is all. You're absolutely right. I wholeheartedly agree with that role as active. This may be what I was rather pointing to, in view of this figure, how working responsibly because of mental problems is being a major part of the help and the rehabilitation that takes place within the active range, then linking it with the fact that individuals have difficulty getting help at the early stages of health care that this connection is real. If we look at what I like, for example. Psychologists and other members, too, are also pointing out that there is a negative result or that they somehow begin to reduce this coordinated treatment, the first phase of health care services there because of taking other measures. Then there are actually, turning people in two kinds of resources, one if they're looking at them, and they're getting psychological services from non-contracted psychologists, or looking for active activity. Yeah, that was kind of the point, okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u122	It gives an answer to a second one, what. paritaprevir Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir. Madam President. Yes, I may just have misunderstood. In his speech earlier, a senator spoke. But, of course, it is as follows that the active force has also filled into voids because of that, like the cot. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson points out that the availability of a first-degree service is not as it should be. Not only is there not enough supply, but there are also restrictions and restrictions because people cannot afford to seek the services of independent and specialists and pay them fully. And it's absolutely true that here is an active job repetitive. But that's what's so sad about it that often when people finally go to active places or get there, because not everyone needs to be assessed by each person, unfortunately, they are often in one day. People have even become unworkable, exhausted. They face many mental challenges, challenges, as well as musculoskeletal problems. And what I find is that 70% of those who go to work and receive services there are women who are often overwhelmed, not just by the pressures of work, but by other pressures in society, second and third shifts, and all that comes with them, and this society makes sick people. It's just that way. It causes sickness, the pressures e.g. Normal women live in a job market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u123	Then the answer to the second one answers, "What? " paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson President. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. A senator's concern. Therefore, the debate over this series of issues must be considerably greater than what we are doing here. We are certainly discussing the ability of the health system to respond. It's a bad score we get there. But when we look for ways to improve, we must need to expand our perspective. I may now have to say, in the context of the possibility that it would have been wishful to consult here with the government to renew the government vows, it might have involved understanding this subject rather than allowing us to stand here and discuss a report of the Kingdom Accounting on Mental Health, which explains the lack of social support because it is a matter that affects the labour market. I also have to say that I think it's very difficult to admit that we're over and over looking at some challenge and the first thing that always comes up is: we don't have a perspective, I just don't realize how we can accept this position in the tens of millions of communities, 100 million, but it's not really possible anymore. We will receive some resources in order to reach the bigger picture and to focus our energy on how we face a global convention in which we live on this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u124	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator before the talk, and I would like to continue with this discussion only on the subject. As mentioned earlier in the discussion today, I received answers from a social and workforce minister during the days on which new individuals have enrolled in active service in the year 2021. It is from January 1 of 2021 / 22021. April 2022. It was of great interest to me that of the 2739 new registrations at this time, 446 or 16.3% were health care professionals or workers working in social services, such as nursing, care or treatment, and we know that it's human state, that it is in control of the whole system, and also in terms of mental health matters, and it's a lot of stress, and it's important to try somehow to keep people with experience while trying to encourage new people to come in, and of course, the education that's really important, and it's not necessary to be forced. It takes time to educate people, and they haven't always been available, e.g. as shown in this report, for example, a master's study for nurses. But I'd like to ask why. A senator sees the need to include some other impulse into the system to attract people to health care, perhaps especially mental - health care, as we are doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u125	Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Friðriksson Friduk's son joined in a fight. Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a new Oddný Harðardóttir for the counter-sponsored. These are striking numbers that answer the percentage of health care professionals in these new registrations, it hurts to see it so black in white. While the tendency has been deep down, we know exactly what the pressure is on staff, and I had a meeting with a group of staff across the hospital, just to mention in this and was that way discussing the situation on the pole and it shone through such profound disappointments that after the inhuman pressures of this time, they should somehow have nothing easy, they just looking forward to the same race again and fighting to dissipate some other day without being disturbed and etc. CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Yeah, me, of course. First, a competitive pay is required by natural people according to other classes. These are professionals who have worked hard to get to where they are. There we can naturally dust the dust of ideas that I know we're doing. A senator agrees, and it is the ideal for women's classes to be corrected, born again, and again we bring women into this situation in our society, how we live, to live in them. Of course, work conditions are also motivated, and we are not in a specific situation. No one wants to go to the expensive, costly, long - term study just to be placed in a situation that cannot even fulfill duty. They want people to feel hurt because they're waiting for them or because they're making some mistake, so it's a very difficult situation. I think it's perfectly clear that there's some particular job that needs to be done to solve this and get the representatives of these classes involved in looking at this for a long time. But I'm going to say only at the end, too, because this report is the source of the reports, so to speak. But it struck me when I realized that, for example. with the nurses. That study has just not been available for a certain amount of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u126	Hv. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir. Madam President. I'd like to talk only about social security and pensions and when talking about and talking about when we've been talking over the years about the growth of disability, they've somehow been talking about it and the discussion about it as if it were a microchip to accuse them of growing. But of course it isn't like that, and we know that big, and we've known for a long time, that the big groups that are getting here and micro-energy pensions and microenergy payments are, or they're those who deal with the musculoskeletal problems and those who have mental health problems, and the responses I've always been with the government. This: We just have to change our energy food. We have to look at what we can do, but we don't look at what we can do, but we don't see what we can't somehow kill things on suspension instead of saying, "Hey, wait a minute, there's a lot of people here with musculoskeletal problems. " If so, we must improve the quality of our work protection. Then there is the great crowd of mental health problems. Then, of course, we will be improving our mental - health service so as to prevent new incidences. Today, this report shows that those who are inaccessible in part or in part because of mental disorders in 2020 are 8,300 people, and it is a real waste to try not to help the people and to get them to work. The pension pay for types paid to people with psychiatric disorders is up to 26.6 billion a year, and the increase has been 30% in the population of 15%. Then the action of the government must be to prevent this problem and to help those who struggle with it, preventing more sickness than discussion. The discussion is always distributed somehow, as is any form of paper that is convenient for changing all the skills you have. Everything will be much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u127	Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson Mr. President. You see, it's an interesting approach. paritaprevir It's a whole new Oddný Harðardóttir. For years now we have learned to talk about the importance of human health on days, making much of it, creating policies as well as talking about the possibility that we should even put some money into it, understand these matters, and now we are confronted with the two major categories that force people to be forced to go into rehabs being closely related to public health, musculoskeletal problems, and these are mental disorders that are at work in many respects because of some environmentally related factors. So, of course, all of us wisely say, we trees outside just human kindness in this matter. All sense is telling us that this is where the emphasis is. I often think that's the way people talk. But when it comes to testing, and I've sometimes wondered whether we're there watching this classic problem of politics, that some patches on one side are something that can happen with the next election or for the next break or for the next meeting, what it is while some real action that aims to make such knots that people, in particular, women because they say they're made up here by the market of the market of day's work, that when it's up on the soul and body of life with it, it's broken down and I's definitely not with the answers. But I have a very strong feeling that we're not working that way to find the answers on that side of the ridge, as if we should do everything we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u128	To answer that question, what do you think? 5th a.m. That's the north side. " President Jón Einarsson will discuss a report on mental health care, and many of the reports have been made that have been forgotten as a result of a discussion, which is the nature of which we cannot allow ourselves to do so. I'm not now on the board and surveillance committee, since this has been the most discussed. Besides, I'm not on a welfare committee where this will definitely be discussed, but this is a matter of the way that I thought it would not be necessary to say a few words, although it won't be a long talk because we're actually talking about a problem of judgment that will probably affect all the homes in the country if people haven't found it on their own skin, at least has a sibling, a loved one, a friend who has been struggling with this problem. Of course, serious words can be said. However, this is serious, and this is one of the things that we need to discuss earlier, the more likely we are not to become a big problem later, and of course it is a thing that is primarily involved in the quality of life. But this is also an economic issue because the costs of failing to do this are, of course, enormous, and they bite on other things that can then cause a problem again, and in effect, it can be said that the real nation, the evil of this business, is and that governments are unable to cope with the problem. We're talking about some very sensitive things that have not been so long ago, and a group of people with mental problems have just been a target of Icelandic language that they refer to this group in a humiliating way, which, of course, makes it still difficult and then natural, most of which are not always visible. He doesn't always show up on people, and it may be hard to realize when you need to get help so that they are very important that they're all awake over this, especially when you're having children or young people, and we Icelanders can be a bit ambiguous and push things away from you and may not always want to face the situation the way she is, and probably everyone knows that you've met a friend or a coworker on the street and the message is always there. How is it? And the answer is always the same. The answer: Always fine, there's nothing else to say. Of course, it's all right to be sad, angry, or so swinging by the day without being carrying it into the public square. However, they need to take quite seriously when people really feel bad, and they need to feel that they can tell them without any shame, and they need to be able to tell about it and be sure that they are taken seriously and that people will be taken into custody, often very mild at first, that can lead people over it. I'm going to talk about the cost, like after that, though he's obviously an additional thing, as I said. Of course, the important thing is that people live under good living conditions and good public health. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson mentioned earlier. However, this report we are discussing here is a very serious judgment, and despite the fact that individual government officials have spoken of it as being not so bad, all of us are not really critical of this class and we have to take it seriously, and government reviews are reaching out in a very basic way just to put the core of what we're talking about here. But it says in one report, with the permission of a president: the problem is most people are familiar, but it's not working well and it's basically possible to use this sentence as the motto of the Government's policy in general on health because it's usually the problem, most of which know, but it's just having trouble solving, but this huge problem, it grows by year. In spite of this, governments are calling on their efforts to deal with it in enough decisive ways, so it is important that they either make no time to place more money or not trust in changing the valuable division in society and obtain the money needed to finance the group. So much to help people in need. Here, though, we are discussing a fundamental issue that must relate to all other issues in the community. How are we going to finance this? Who Can Help? They all depend on the general tax system, taxation, and fishing costs for the large fishing industry and all of that. However, according to this report, in quite a way, national mental health values are quite different, and these, of course, are primarily affected by the patients whom many do not receive the services they need or simply do not have to wait on the list. Of course, this includes the entire environment of the patient. This takes on families and loved ones. These people also experience great grief at seeing sickness, loved ones, and the greater, perhaps when they have been told from the start that they could have intervened and helped. But the wait for the first interview took a month or a year, and then, at last, when it is possible to provide resources, in some cases it may be too late, and then, in most cases, it takes a bit of the community with very many expense, whether it is a matter of working patients' activities or too expensive and unsolved resources. As mentioned in the report, I also feel that in one place or another, this band is put in pretty good place. But it says, with the permission of the President: A number of gray areas have been defined, but failure to reduce their numbers, including the number of gray areas. Because of the unclear responsibilities of the health service, state and community, and conflict over who should be at the expense of appropriate measures. The consequences include: that people may not always receive appropriate service or that they are not given the right level of service. It is difficult for the system to interfere, it may be necessary to distribute people to appropriate resources, and it is often prolonged in expensive resources but is needed. Intensification of practices also reduces efficiency and prolongs the duration of the waiting process. This problem is made clear where there is a need for a specific psychiatric service that no one thinks is to provide. Some patients have been waiting in an expensive facility that is not suitable for them for years. Patient interests and practical considerations require immediate solutions. This is quite clear, but along with these gray areas, there are only other problems that we face because Our National Relations also speaks of the fact that it is defined in the basic sense. This is the three - service phase, the right level for the ministry, the right place for it to be given, and the right to give. But with these gray areas, they can be added to this population. And now, Madam President, I'm just going to take a break because it says here that I only have 16 seconds, traced in five minutes plus because he was made a mess, the file as another. This is certainly my first speech in the matter. Yeah, cannibals and I were here this morning talking to the highest. A secretary of finance who did not recognize any financial needs in the system and talked about the problem and did not realize that there is now much connection between them. So there are some things to consider. And most important, I want to come to realize that in this system, there is a single manifestation of inequities that are not very beautiful and that it seems to be as if people have different services and can have lost and services depending on the economics of ACER, depending on the mental problems they face and on where they live in the country. And all of this is a huge project that we must, Madam President, try to fix somehow. The report says that there is no formal assessment of how the government's policy strategy has been implemented prior to 2016-2020. It's usually very serious if we're doing a strategy and we don't follow up on what they're doing because how we're going to do the next strategy, and now it's just one thing to do. It said that there was an emphasis on the advancement of the godship of a basic living environment, prevention and early intervention but all follow-up. This was unremarkable, and there is a lack of consultation, and it is the National Reunion Assessment's assessment that the result of policy management is inadequate. It's just a drop score, as is said in the gentle official language, which is often in such a report, but we cannot call it anything other than a federal judgment against the government. Finally, Madam President, I'd like to discuss only the cost of such an event, but there must be some research on what we Iceland is close to evaluating the necessities and finding out the real cost, not counting the cost of the problem and instead not caring for the prevention or support, for example. Inexpensive psychological services, which the council has concluded when power is limited and manageable, and I think of how building costs are just measured by the expense of design and then, while most civilized nations around us calculate the design, design, and business to 50 years. Then there is the actual cost of a meeting, and of course we should do the same when it comes to health care. We must calculate the cost of not resorting to the resources needed to prevent people from getting into trouble. And then I reiterate, because there's not much left of this speech, but, of course, even though the money here and it can save a lot of money, we're primarily talking about people, not little things like glass, steel, concrete. That is why we need to associate with the subject. We cannot save in relatively simple, efficient, and effective measures, judging small children or young people in marvelously caused age and life because we do not have enough forethought.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. Logi A Einarsson's talk. I wanted to do one thing to talk about here right now when we're discussing this report. For one thing, it is naturally quite valuable to discuss this report as long as it has been so short of the election season, and I'm going to challenge it to the highest level. Government to take this report seriously, I actually have no tremendous hope that it will be done to a large extent because I've felt that men were slightly missing it, some council members, at least how serious the report is, but I was actually going to bring up a subject. That is what a National Accounting survey is to draw special attention to the report, and this is what is covered in a fine box in the report. Certain discrimination is built into the mental health system in Iceland and it is clear that not all sit at the same level, access to the services of the district, often the economy, the species of mental illness, and the habitat. Discrimination also involves the fact that certain groups end up in so - called gray areas, and they do not qualify for services, including Because of vague responsibilities and costs, lack of capital, design options, or other factors. I can't get any better reading. She's calling for some people to value this with me, at least. I can't better see that this chapter tells us that the system, without us building it up so that there's discrimination, is just trapped in the system. The system has become such that it is universally different people, knowing this about their habitat, and probably sometimes a bit of shoulder over it, difficult to deal with it from their home. But we also have a mental disorder underneath. We're doing it under there. We're all the problems that arise from the gray areas and other things, and I just wanted to ask you why. A senator as to whether he agrees that this is being brought to the attention of the Government's decision, it's just that our system is built up, so the difference has become inevitable in and more than one and more than two and three areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u130	The stage answers the question. 5th a.m. That's the north side. "L Michael Logi Einarsson. Yes, Madam President. No, I don't think there's any discrimination at all, but it's there, and if there's discrimination, there's a particular need to be taken care of. Of course, it can be a challenge to ensure the same service in a specific field here on the capital and in many parts of the country, and we may not be able to quite equal it. But at least we can. Take action to reduce this imbalance. But, of course, there are many other forms of inequities, such as. ... givemea problem. I know something like that. A woman who was a good friend of mine, and when she was young, she needed spiritual help. She could not afford it, so she spread herself into alcohol therapy because she got at least one drink. some interviews, counseling, and other matters, perhaps solving some of her problems without perhaps dealing with addictions that she at least may be dealing with. It seemed that he had to solve that way himself. However, this was the possibility that she could have had because she did not have 17,500. every week to consult a psychologist. That is why, naturally, there is one way to eliminate this discrimination. Indeed, a senator points out, making the solemn promise of the council that the government eagerly gave to pay off the psychological services. It's, for example. one easy step that could be taken, and I'm not sure that it will cost more than it will save for the long future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u131	It gives an answer to a second one, what. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Sigmar Guðmundsson. Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer to the Logi of Einarsson's son. You're absolutely right. We've had a lot of senators on this thing with the Psychological Service and just this point, that by intervening in there, there may be saving something at the other end. I might also remember a few things: I want to mention here one thing, and it's how the scope of my mental - health service has increased completely, but the financial resources are not in proportion. Of course, this is just a problem that we know, not just the mental health issue, but other parts of the government. But this is a bit dramatic because mental - health aid and other people have been calling for a good map, and I know that mental help thought that donations to mental health were 12%, but this report reveals that they are 4.6%. That's the size of the problem. Of course, the mental health problem in the system is 30%, but the funds are 4.6%, and the gap between them is known, but they are so great, something that even surprised mental - health workers. I'd like to ask you what. When we have this report that describes the details of things that are not right and that need to be fixed, and at the same time, we have this difference between the level of mental health care and the financial resources involved. How do we solve this? Is there any way that this can be solved by some kind of decomposition on the system, or do we need to add to the system for any reason that we have billions of dollars to level? To answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u132	Between them, the answer to the second one answers the question. 5th a.m. That's the north side. "Lil Logi Einarsson, yes, Madam President. Perhaps it is somehow a continuation of a previous question. A senator and now I may understand better, I don't think there's always a way to add it. In the same system, it is so defective that it is more costly than it needs to be. I think we need to focus more on these early things and grab on a little bit earlier, so we save at the other end how to solve it. I think that's the best thing to do with the extensive consultation of all classes, but we'll see it in my day, if I remember correctly. According to the report, health - care expenses are at a rate of 13.8 billion. But money provided by a insurance agency is paying off from the system because of accidents and the disability of pensions that are 26.6, so it says itself that every dollar saved in the second amount by spending a little in the early stages. It must have worked us a lot, and, of course, it's no greater science than the example I mentioned in my speech on the calculated construction cost. But somehow it just seems easier because it's about dead things and freezing food. But here we are discussing much more serious things and matters that concern so greatly the lives of individuals and their families that we must dig deeply into them, summon all parties, all specialists, people in different organizations because we cannot go on like this. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u133	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for a report on mental health care, which is being discussed and as I review this well - worked report, many of which are very important, and many things are more important and need to be considered in this language. I'm sorry. Then we have not been doing what we should, and I really hope that we take this report seriously, as has been mentioned here. There is a full need for this, and we are already taking action on the improvements presented in the report and the suggestions that Government Accounting has for improvement in this important issue. In this speech, Madam President, I would like to look to a mental - health service that is extremely important to children and adolescents, and it is now that children have the right to have the best health available and therefore need to be able to provide access to professional services in all areas of health care. Of this, there is also a difference between the two groups. The WHO concluded that up to 20% of children and teenagers, president of the United States, feeling unwell or depressed, and a number of people who have this problem are likely to be more than studies do not tell all children when they feel unwell and need to increase knowledge of children and parents and emotional disorders so that they can seek help if they experience symptoms. This is very important, and it has been shown to be the importance of prevention and its so - called early intervention to promote the mental health of children. The definition of prevention is that it is an intervention that can prevent a particular situation that might reduce or prevent the worsening of the situation, and this is very important in this category. That's why they're the guys mentioned here, I think it was a reason. paritaprevir In his speech, the Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson was just saying that it is extremely important that we take action and destroy these lists. However, it is important to find children or adolescents who are experiencing emotional distress and do not report it and who do not seek help and who need to have access to resources and services for children who suffer from ill feelings or mental disorders. Preservation is probably a major factor. It must then be considered using the term such as the setting above, focusing more on power and specific preventive measures, focusing on these early interventions, interrupting the situation or before it gets worse and may lead to serious consequences, and so on, for example. Health care professionals focus more on general prevention. This is illustrated in a fine article by Kristinn Inga Grímsdóttir of mental - health nurses, whom I encourage members of Parliaments to study in this regard a fine woman who knows very well this category and by caring for children and their families through preventive care, increased and conforming to services to children with distress and mental well - being. Is it more likely that a child who feels unwell will be admitted? We need to do better in this regard, Madam President, because it is of utmost importance. We watch children and young people deal with these problems, even a great deal of their lives or even a lifetime, and if we only go back into this waiting wait for a child in Iceland with a mental illness, this wait is way too long. This is totally unacceptable, as mentioned in a speech I mentioned earlier, that waiting time may be up to three years, and that is totally unacceptable. I would like to encourage the health - care minister to take this matter seriously and not give up on that matter, it takes boldness on the part of the executives and courage to handle it and I encourage it, as I say, to be sure to do so. It may be clear that there is a greater need for resources and increased services in Iceland that are involved in promoting the mental health of young people. According to a report published by the National Review Board, the demand and need for mental health care is increasing each year from the medical system each year, and we are still in this place we now have this long waiting list and this report of the Kingdom Accounting that we accept is really a review of, and we need to respond to the indications presented there. Now the government can ensure necessary service, is prepared and is waiting for services, as I said, in general, and not according to government goals. There is a lack of perspective in this series, and there is no need for information, it is unacceptable. This is quite serious, and we must take it seriously, and when it comes to the success of our mental - health organization, of course, our country's small size is important. Ours is a short channel, and it should be easy to establish a clearer structure and structure within and between institutions. I think we should keep this in mind about the work we have to do. This is not to be a great case, for, in many respects, we are a small people and have good workers and good workers, though more are needed. There are all the willing types in this health, sector, health care, to do their part, and therefore it should be very easy to respond to certain comments in this report, and I think we have to look for a work-in and very many practical suggestions. I welcome the initiative involved in this report, and it's presented here. I think I've been a little bit of a boy. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolbröndóttir, who is the founder of this report, is here for the council and I'm celebrating it in particular, and I'm also going to only enter the General Assembly's approval from 2016 on mental health issues until 2020, and I see that my time is running out, so I'm going to go over it further, or can I be put back on the rosary? I am grateful for this, but it showed that there was an increased need for prevention in order to promote the mental health of young people, to promote the services and consultations of the health professionals, and to shorten a waiting list in a walk department to promote the mental health of young people. So it is agreed on in the IIal Mental Health Programme in 2016-2020, and I'm going to take part in my next talk. So much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u134	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For his talk, the Birgir of Þórarinsson's offer begins with a complete concern about what he was about to come on. It is this waiting art and state of mental health that must scream at us from this report, and it will be there, for example. Until the ADHD team is 36 months and today the Land Hospital team has a total of 18 months, depression and anxiety, the group 12 months, the eating team over 18 months, and the development and behavioral center, which is 24 months. We're talking about an amazing number of children, and it must also be a warning because this list, though set aside, is not correct, it's giving them to Keiss two, and I'll say one third. One of the waiting lists seems to be in order to name the third list of which you will arrive and what the situation is in the system. Now's the time. Senator on board. How does he figure it out? Because somehow it's been, he said, based everything on quicksand. It's not being handled. He hasn't been dealing with the problem. They're creating some system that's supposed to work in the future, but while it's not on a waiting list, this system doesn't work. And how does he see it possible to solve a man's design first? Because it's also a mess, and I don't see how this government is going to solve in the next few years. I had been thinking and how this will affect the children inside this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u135	That'll answer the question. 9th. South, Birgir Þórarinsson. Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for a very good inquiry, and there comes a why. A senator will consider a very important aspect that is basically a fundamental factor in what we are dealing with. It is this Lucky, these long models and designs, in part, to say that the reason for the long list of waitings is even greater. Because it is difficult for humans to find these special positions, just too few experts who can receive patients and then accumulate. This waiting list is one interesting thing to consider in conjunction with this publication of Kingdom Review in 2017. Then the surgeon general met with me at a meeting on mental health issues of young people, and there's a lot of interesting evidence, and I'm amazed. A senator to study this report of this meeting if he has not already done so because he has an excellent knowledge of this series of subjects. I can see what I can do in this design problem. We just need to have this conversation with these professions, mental - health professionals, and specialists in this field, and we need people with us to find ways to increase the number of workers in this sector with expertise. I don't have the solutions per, I'm sure there's somewhere in there, salary, chicken business, situation, work loads and stuff like that. It's all playing. But this would make me feel at first to try to start this job, to reduce the problem of design, and to reduce the long wait list. It gives an answer to a second one.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u136	Answering the second time. 9th. We're out of Suðvest. "Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. A respectable president. A very secret person believes that Þórarinsson has an answer and, yes, I also need to discuss these matters clearly, and visitors who came from Kingdom Accounting Committee members who were passing through the report on the welfare committee. Then it clearly appeared anywhere. The most amazing thing about this system is that when we started making mental health care, people who were sucked out of the system and out of the system were not really new people coming in so much as they could. The result is the one that was reached in the clinic. He disappeared from causing it to remain in another part of the system. So the question is that, also, there's a shadow area in this system that doesn't seem to be a map. I'm most concerned that we're somehow chasing our tails, just a whole new solution that everyone could ever find.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u137	The answer to the second one's question is what? 9th. South, Birgir Þórarinsson. Madam President. I want to thank you. Senator. I think his mind is set with him that it needs to be. There must be a new approach in trying to solve this problem, and that is one part of being political when politicians must be so original when trying to solve problems and activate them, such as in a legal case, so that this legal group, which is responsible for health - care ministers, he the minister, must seek every way to find out the solutions that could help solve this problem. But I still think it's very important to have this cooperation with those in this sector that I mentioned earlier, and it's quite certain that those who work for these and mental - health professionals and others have ideas of how to increase the number of staff members and those with expertise. This is a thing that we must never forget to work together and consult with those who are familiar with the article, so we might work on this serious problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u138	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for a good speech and a sincere position on these matters. This is a very tricky group of subjects, and I thought it would be good to hear such marked evidence of his concern for children who are dealing with mental challenges because if we are going to try to start somewhere to grab or get leaks in this category, we'll probably have to start there and work out when I don't know. And that may be what I left behind in conversation. The senator is celebrating the report, and I certainly do also that this is a very careful report on the part of a government accountant who was in trouble getting information from the system. But then what? Because the list of waitings has never been as long as they are now, and as shown in the report, the proportion of children who value their spiritual health is also growing smaller as you think: Is it because of their own mental disorders, or may it be also because of what parents are dealing with, that if parents do not receive a service that is looked for in the mental health system, the child would naturally feel it? And it's so strange because I talk about this underlying systematic prejudice against this group of patients who are not necessarily aware, it's just there. It makes me feel short when someone is dealing with mental challenges. At that time, it seems that there is no Internet and that the family seizes the children of the parent or of the sibling. I just wanted to hear a little bit about what happened. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u139	That'll answer the question. 9th. South, Birgir Þórarinsson, yes. Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this fine reflection, and I agree with it. A senator that it is of utmost importance that we cherish children and young men and I personally believe that this class's position should be adjusted first, and I've said it here in a speech, and more of them are completely unacceptable, and if something is, they have only the longest. I also wrote earlier in my speech that it would be interesting to consider a report from 2017 that included the land of the surgeons'landscape for a meeting on mental, health issues of children, and youths. In this regard, it is interesting to note that there is a great threat to health care efficiency that there is no regard for the financial situation of the State as a single entity. Rather, economic management may involve institutions or reduce services, though pressures increase in other and even costly areas. It's a very good point, and it's me. That is why I have been speaking of this report while reading the state reexamination report that it is one of these important points that could be taken right away by the executives and that would be of great benefit, and there is also another reason that there is a great organization threatening that various resources and services are strengthened and the existence of cases wanting to be shown funding, e.g. Based on the interests of Ministers rather than on the overall policy development and best knowledge. I may not be able to answer this differently than I can so I'll take my whole mind with my mouth. A senator needs this net. They're pulling their arms around the families. When perhaps one family with a child has a problem, the whole family needs to be caught. It's part of solving these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u140	It gives an answer to a second one, what. 4th, including Smoke. N., Helga Vala Helgadóttir. Madam President. Thank you. A senator's appreciation for the answer, and yes, by also viewing it as an investment, not an investment. We may be able to get out of being always trapped in these boxes, to render service here if there was anything else that might need to be done. Then the parties start fighting over who's going to pay, and of course we'll see it in many places and like, for example. Just with what we talked about earlier tonight about putting money in that psychological services and then in health insurance, which are such a part of the prevention system, as well as part of the welfare system, but can clearly ease the pressures of Congress, part of the mental health system, without doubt, and by pulling in there you'll be relieved of the social security system, the justice system, etc. etc. So, in reality, we need to view this vastly complete investment as more than an investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u141	Then the answer to the second one answers, "What? " 9th. South, Birgir Þórarinsson, yes. Madam President. I'll take my whole mind off it with you. A senator that we need to look at this whole thing, and that is, I think that what can also be read from this report by a state accountant, and it is totally underestimated, and it also came out in a speech earlier tonight, the cost of having this long list of waitings has these design problems, unable to perform this service sufficiently. All of this means the cost of society. We've seen it, and I think there's some information that those who get new into disability, young people in very many cases, have some sort of mental problems, and that's why this is taking an early approach to these problems, very important because they can then become even bigger problems and with the health costs, etc., so I'll take my mind off this at a moment. Senator. There's a lot of pot broken in this suit, unfortunately. The report tells us, and we must respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u142	Madam President. I thank you for a fine speech, and I thought it was a bad night. A senator would agree with many of us here that this is a real problem that needs to be handled. I'd like to ask, because you're right next to it. A member of the council said that it was then a member of the congregation, Hans Anna Kolb Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, who offered this in his day and in her company, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson. A senator said that the report was just a sentence in our system that I wanted to ask if the senator agrees with it so strong that it is a sentence against our system. Hv. A senator also spoke of the need for us to have a conversation with a special job and to get it along and adapt the person's condition. But does the senator think that it will be possible to do so without the offer of a mental - health study because many years have not been offered a mental - health study? And finally, I'd like to ask the senator if he thinks we can actually make short-term improvements, at least. without any further funding to the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u143	That'll answer the question. 9th. South, Birgir Þórarinsson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator and I believe it is quite safe to say that what is presented in this report is a very serious indication. I think I'll totally agree, I think we all will. But it may not be that there is hope for a mental - health service in Iceland. It is not that, and over the past few years, considerable money has been put on the job of improving this service, and now we are looking forward to the fact that there is a psychological service at the clinic, which is a positive but a public school. A public review is there with an excellent suggestion for improvement in seven teams that we must take seriously. And if we are going to have real success, real success next to it, mental health needs, and I'm looking especially at children and young people to be subjects in all government policies, both government and local society, and we need to promote a work order that is characterized by cross-cutting cooperation among all members of this vital issue. I'll agree with that. I welcome this report very much and in the case of design, that the problem has been established, e.g. for the director of a Icelandic nurse's club, that the language is part of it. People with this training are learning in other jobs. We need to get it back into this sector, and of course we should be here with an education suitable for this class. Then we are talking about education in a nurse. Well, that's what he'll give.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u144	It gives an answer to a second one, what. 5th a.m. That's the north side. "L Michael Logi Einarsson. Madam President. I feel that the exchanges that take place here and the talks that take place in different categories and set them in the World Council indicate that it is fully possible for us to achieve a good harmony in this category because, despite the different priorities in the individual community and the need for well - being of children and teenagers and, of course, of course, of all people. That's something we have in common. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator, even though it may be difficult to answer such matters, reports the report that we spend some 13.8 billion in mental - health services. We are paying 26.6 million from an insurance institution because of premature disability, or because people cannot work because of spiritual illness and possibly feel weak. Senator: Count back. A senator that by raising the money in the first place with young ones we can save on the other side.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u145	Then the answer to the second one answers, "What? " 9th. South, Birgir Þórarinsson. Madam President. Thank you. I'm a senator. Yeah, I totally believe that if we take it seriously, we'll work on these lists, destroy them, and we'll sort it out as soon as possible. Then it's a benefit to the whole community. My mind is set on this subject, and I think that this has been demonstrated both in speech and in literature, by those who know the best of the language. According to a 2017 landscape report, if we take these individuals from the start, well - trained young people who have signs of spiritual problems, to act on it immediately, it is important that we have to wait for three years, it is totally unacceptable. This may mean that the person may even end up as an individual on disability and not be able to work at work, etc. All of this requires society and, above all, an effort must be made to care for these individuals so that they can lead a normal life.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u146	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the report of the National Institutes of Mental Health, Policy, Organization, cost and progress, and the review of the Commission on the May 30 of the past, and I want to be the head of the Department of Health and the head of the Management Board to focus on the upcoming matter for all matters related to it, whether it is related to the Management Board's Committee, the Council's Council, or any other topic. So I can see that the report can become a kind of guide and the criteria for the health care committee at least ... inthisest term. It is the most intimate to mention mental health policy until the year 2030, which is now being discussed on the welfare committee and it is reasonable to reflect the proposal in the report, and particularly to evaluate the course as presented in the light of the seven points emphasized by the State's Accounting Research. Seven points have already been repeated in this discussion. The report explains some aspects of the need for a solution, and it is a valuable part of the development of health care services in which major changes are taking place in both the country and the international health care services, and I consider to some extent that the report is actually included in the changes that have been taking place and must take place in the near future. A respectable president. This may be what I came here primarily to tell how a welfare committee can apply this report and how I stress that a health committee will apply the report. But I'd like to bring in other things, as we have time here. I may have made significant changes in mental - health services within a short period of time and at the same time in her association with other health care providers. Many are on the right track, many are requiring further improvement, but as they progress, such new challenges are published. I can see that, for example. which is very positive, and the report says that the first - grade service would have been increased as there is a service in the health - care field closer to those in the service. However, at the same time, more jobs in the first degree of service have drawn to those who worked in the previous phase 3 service with people with special knowledge, who have moved from service in the third degree to serve at the first level, which also makes unnecessary care, but in the same way, it is also noted that they may have reduced the need to serve at a different level and, of course, to perform better service in the first degree and, of course, they are always the goal. Also noted are telecommunications, growth, and careful use of services as early as possible. It is an additional opportunity for health care professionals to take a collective measure of mental health and physical health care from people who seek the assistance of the health system but still lack a specific social interaction there, as well as a greater improvement in cooperation between systems, and as it has been repeated, the emphasis is on bringing the success of the law and thereby the change in child service. One thing that has been repeatedly observed by a health - care committee now is that it is very important for people who have to wait for another service, or perhaps more recently, a first-stage service or second-stage service while waiting for the specialist, as appears to at least occasionally to be a dedicated fence. On the contrary. At times, we may forget in our discussion of mental - health care that organization is important, that there are different needs for those who have a long - term need for mental health care and those who are temporarily in need of support for their mental health at some point in life, often with them for a short period of time. Often, though, we are talking about either but not whether or not, perhaps not different ways. However, as we have so far seen, specific measures are needed to increase learning space and, as I traced to the transfer of people from a service stage to increase the education of professionals in different classes, which is a cause of great joy, that from the end of the fall, the master school is going to be an open school available to the University of Akureyri, and this project is a common degree from the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri and the University of Akureyri. It will highlight the clinical knowledge and skills of students and professional and research, skills. This is an extremely important step in improving the design of mental - health goals at all levels and by taking steps. There are already more enrolled in the study than there are at first hours, so we cannot expect a mental - health nurse to multiply. Yes, it may be important, as mentioned in the report, that is a number of projects. Development projects have been conducted with a number of assessments over the past few years and with a improvement in action programme. But it is important to watch the overall picture all along because the individual subjects are solved, and this link, of course, is, as it may be. I was most surprised. The report contains this lack of information and organized collection of information, treatment of data, and blurred accounts, as there is, of course, a basis for us to know that we have a map of what is happening so that we know where to go and then, of course, as I have come in. The strategy matters, however, as much as the targeted strategy for the process, which is important to me that I consider important and we take into account a discussion here at the council, and that will be started, this circle, the policy action and the assessment of how it works and then improving. I just wanted to mention one of the priorities of this policy, which is now under consideration by a well-being committee, an emphasis on user agreements and advice in which governments, professionals, users and caregivers deal with the seminary of developing policies and continuing reforms. Of course, it's just a very important matter, and I'd like to introduce it to a little bit. Hv. The members of Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddottir and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson discussed it earlier and discussed it in advance, but I think it is very important that we also have access to information on a number of national policies, often in partnerships, rural communities, and even with the presence of the State. However, these are resources that are short - term and long - term uses and are of great importance. But in the end, I'd like to agree with the Honorable Chairman of the Board of Directors and Commission, The Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir. It takes political endurance and patience to conform to such improvements as those taking place today in health care. The task will not be solved by one report or by a brief discussion. These are long-term projects anyway. We're thinking of building up human resources, ensuring scattered services throughout society and cooperation across the network or cooperation across the network.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u147	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I'd like to ask her if she's not worried with me because I know from the experience that before then there were people who had problems in the school system with true ADHD or anyone but didn't get it. They were people, kids who were called just toss, caught up in harassment and all kinds of trouble, and I know that these people and I know how to get into the micropower system. Now we have thousands of 1,000 children in this situation, and we may have children who may have to wait three years, and they are starting school. They may be disturbed by their study, and they may be creating an assembly of children in the future's disability system, which would provide the solution to remake some well - being, trying to rehabilitate. We know that these individuals today may cost tens of thousands, even hundreds of thousands. But every single person who gets into the whole system, we're talking about millions now, I don't see how the government is going to solve this case because, as I say, this waiting list has been discussed since I got into Congress. I think that at the beginning, when I first spoke of a waiting list, e.g. a d d the charge, was 700 children on the waiting list of 1,000. So I ask. A senator whether she sees any solution in this case so that it can be solved, mainly, that we are not risking these children who are on the waiting side of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u148	He's back. 4th, including That's the north side. "Linekika Anna Sævarsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. This is a very important case that we should find ways to resolve and are very important. On the other hand, I just want to give an example of 25 years. now that I first came to work in a elementary school in Iceland. Then a psychologist visited three times a year, and he came from another part of the country and visited a few schools and services or perhaps three students. Since then, much water has flowed to the sea, and much more information among school workers is available on how to meet different people because the professional person who has come to the analysis is certainly involved, which also involves the information services to the workers of school has been provided so much more in school who may encounter individuals with hyperactivity, attention deficits, and hyperactivity, etc., in many ways I have become less concerned about each individual than before. However, it is important that all can gain access to the experts and the support they need, and that, of course, is the course of success. The law even has laws. to make things right, that any who may be able to provide support in their schools or in their health care and perhaps fewer people may need to consult more specialized resources than they can get access to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u149	One or two. 9th. We're out of here. "Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the council before and deeply agrees. But I have to point out this, too. The school system is so high that we need analysis of the system to make things work, and I can just do that is a recent example I know of. Was it what parents faced that they had to wait 18 months to get into with children, enter the system, or go outside the system and pay some tens of thousands of dollars? They chose to exit the system even though they felt they could not afford it. They felt that it was in the best interests of the child. I ask myself, when we have such a system that can pass by, if you have money, that what the consequences are for those who do not have this possibility, and if it is unfair that we should be in this situation, parents usually in a position to choose. He must not be able to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u150	Answering the second time. 4th, including That's the north side. "Linekika Anna Sævarsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer. Of course, all of us should always have access to the ministry they need. However, I would also like to say that because there is more knowledge in school, it is possible to perform many services without a diagnosis because there is much evidence to suggest that a student needs this type of service. But there's not exactly how he gets an analysis. Of course, there are isolated cases and available that may not be available within the school, and it is very important to get help from outside the school and guidance on how that student gets to be the best. He will be the best slave.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u151	Yes, Madam President. I thank you for the talk, and I wanted to discuss a particular subject that appears in the report regarding discrimination. It is said that there is a difference between a number of areas and that there are economic differences between mental disorders. Probably playing various features there, but then the bulimia is protected, and I know why. A senator lives on Austjörður and knows until it is a long way to cross a large area, to travel between, and because I know that throughout the years, there has been a very difficult situation, especially for psychology and mental - health services for young people on Eastern Europe. This may have improved to some extent by the cohesive practices of the Eastern Institute of Health, but they are still far from what is available at larger urban areas in the capital area and even in Akureyri and elsewhere. I just wanted to hear a little bit of it. A senator how she feels and if she doesn't agree with me that this might be something that has to be addressed specifically because, of course, such specific measures can never be handled by humans as well as on land, if that is not necessary, at least. to pay particular attention to this and to do the best that can be improved considerably from now on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u152	We're gonna go for a second. 4th, including That's the north side. "Linekika Anna Sævarsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. Einarsson The answer to that question is, Of course, that there are different privileges of service based on where people live. In some ways, we can never solve everything. But there are a lot of things that can be done to improve telecommunications in a number of areas, although only in order to deliver information and advice and can be of great importance. But what I've had conversations with, including... this year just with people working in the community services of these large rural communities now or those two bigger in the East, there is a problem that no one seems to have the direct role of caring for minors with multiple problems, it does not seem to be clear whether or not. A roof or a team here in the capital area that has this defined role, in part, because the services of these two are built up so that they need to be in the arrangement. The people who are enjoying it need to be in a relative position or not too far away. But it's just a solution that needs to be solved. There's no question about that. Fortunately, they are psychologists, and they may have grown like this. If we look at the last two decades, more psychologists have settled in the East, where there is a more continuous and better service. But there may be no one who exactly treats. They're the ones giving their diagnosis and counselling to like school.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u153	It gives an answer to a second one, what. 5th a.m. That's the north side. "Lampi Logi Einarsson, yes, Madam President, whatever. A senator actually brings in where the responsibility lies. The report also discussed this gray region in which it is not clear whether countries, rural areas, individual institutions, or others should care for it. I ask them, though, is it not the most obvious? A member of the body of health care, a member of the Parliament, is responsible and must be made payable to explain where the responsibility is at any given time? I want to, too, because of what. A senator spoke of the need for a research organization, information collection, data, and so forth, and referred to a mental - health policy. The report says that the Health Minister has not evaluated the programme 2011-03/020. That's what I'm talking about. A senator believes that the course we are making in the future will be good enough? If it is not even evaluated, what has been done? That's when an answer's answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u154	Senator of the Northeast District, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator later answers, and perhaps just because I was going to introduce it in the previous year, with different mental disorders and discriminations as a result. It surprised me very much that we didn't have better statistics about, for example. with a little mental disorder. As far as policy is concerned, the situation looks the same. It's all true and right. A senator went over here, a little bit on that we're at a new zero point and so forth here by policy, and it's even. The role of a welfare committee as it deals with this policy, to get clear information on how and information from the Ministry and Minister on how it is being performed, how it will be followed, how it will be followed and how it would be evaluated so that we are getting off this circle that we want to have in policy and action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u155	Madam President. Like what? A senator noted that there is a lack of professional staff who perform mental - health services for cleaning. The lack of nurses and mental - health professionals has been severe, and it has been difficult to watch a person's shift at the same time as health - care programs have increased but, unfortunately, not confined to a mental - health field. However, it seems that it is not desirable to specialize in this area and to ask whether the government does not need to examine the work environment as such. The pay and attention of the health care provider to attract people. It is just not to be overlooked that these factors are extremely important and that if they ever were possible, it is no longer possible to rely on professionals, work under unsatisfactory circumstances, and a poor salary of the ideals alone. Hv. One senator noted that in the fall of this year, mental health studies, which are truly good, are expected to be on at least A four - year study is a major problem today. A report by the administration and monitoring committees says that it is important to think more carefully about the recruits and education of professional persons in these classes and to ensure that working conditions, attracting people to mental - health services. Many health care professionals are not working in medical institutions because they have just given up on the pay. How are we to make sure that when these graduates, they return to work? How can we make these jobs attractive and desirable? They're asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u156	That'll answer the question. 4th, including That's the north side. "Linekika Anna Sævarsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. I'll take the answer from a senator and I'll find some points I'd like to mention. I think a little over a year ago a professional and a designer and an education that went into business is very important about the prospect of caring for health care, and that is, of course, showing that there is not necessarily a lack of interest but a lack of study space. This has not been an incentive for such training, such as. to be a mental - health worker, who was not a student of space, and we received information at a meeting of the health committee last week that this study applies to the University of Akureyri, a master school at a two - year school to nursing school, is really attending. So it's a double match for students who are available, so they won't be interested, and of course it'll take all of this time and though there's only two years, which is probably the worst time in their lives here, it's gonna be a turning point, and hopefully it won't be one year, but it'll be available, but it might not be invited, not taking a new group every year because it's going to take some time to go through this. But we have also seen that it has been in recent years to increase the number of study space in this country in for doctors and for nurses in 2 articles. I don't need the attendance, so I think we're on the right track. But it takes time, and patience is needed to endure and keep adding space and creating new people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u157	The faith of Lóa Þórsdóttir. Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer and this with a practical advice on design and education. It's just the best thing completely. Yet, it is with a lack of study space when the need is as great as it really is. Then there's a question that may only increase the sense that it would be possible and offer this also in the south of the country, such as in Reykjavík, as in Akureyri, but I'm also concerned about what happens after graduation. That is what they are interested in, and often when people want to work with something. Then there are the circumstances in the ministry and other activities that may make people give up. That's all we got. There are too many classes that have faced health care professionals. I can name teachers and others, so I'm just like this wondering if there's a need to make this more attractive work environment before it comes up and answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u158	Just for the second time. 4th, including That's the north side. "Linekika Anna Sævarsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator later answers. Yeah, the whole study thing. It's about the place at the university, but mostly about the space in the hospital, and it's also natural, of course, it's a capital, limiting factor, but also just how many people are being treated in each field that way, but mostly when we move on and on and perhaps, so that's perfectly clear. This year's study is being held outside the University of Akureyri, but there's nothing attached to Akureyri, that's the cooperation of Iceland's University, and that's just the health system. At the University of Akureyri, I just fell off and came next time. But what I wanted to stress too is that there are, of course, people with, like... The nurse. Education and teachers are simply a sought - after employee in many parts of the community, and at times I feel that this education is too much for the community, even though it is used in non - medical and educational places.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u159	Helgadóttir, Madam President. I would like to begin by celebrating very much the discussion that is taking place here today, and also rejoicing that Government Accounting has done this professional report, the administration of mental health care that we are doing here today because we are allowed to see black in this report how badly we have cultivated this important minor service, which somehow became an mylanchot of any other medical system. I don't know why this patient group, this group, and these measures are so much left up in the Icelandic medical system and such a low understanding that governments seem to have the scope of the budget and the need for a planned future vision. Yes, a report is well administrative, incredibly important, but I. I can't let it say how important it is that it follows such a big project, as we see now from Government Accounting, some follow-up that there's really cutting up this system, and I'm not gonna let myself say, "Uh, roll with each rock 'cause we need anything other than we have to put a heart into this job because I think, in spite of all of it, that's what we want. For one thing, I'd like to make it a matter of putting our primary emphasis on the fact that we're spending so much on this category and starting to think more of ourselves as investing in people, investing in human resources when we put the necessary financial resources for the people of this country who face mental challenges at any stage of life. It's a huge waste to do bad things. What a waste it is to feed our health with money, human resources, and a vision to the future! Sadly, though, when it comes to the mental health system, it is what we are looking at every day, and it confirms this administrative system produced in black - and - white Kingdom Accounting. We remember that long, the largest growth in disability has come from mental - health people. That is where the increase is located. In the past, there were individuals with systemic problems, and now there are individuals with psychiatric challenges. And what are we doing about it? Where's the trident? There's no trident, Madam President. What would it cost us to lock people in a system where they have entered disability and that people can't really try anything? It's not a very smart solution to these subjects. Every week, Madam President, we get reports of an unannounced situation, now last day, when we read that forced persons in the National Institute of Mental Health, on the Ring Road, and at Akureyri Hospital are not getting adequate out. We received news today that in the Department of Mental Hospital at the Ring Road Hospital, under no circumstances will be allowed to go anywhere for 21 days, for the first 21 days, his stay on the other roundway. Klepp, Ring Road, and Akureyri are places that have been offered for years. Therefore, in the United States, we have repeatedly suggested proposals for the construction of mental facilities to ensure at least that at least Improve situations for these mental conditions. We have suggested that a team of professionals and stakeholders be appointed, including those of the service that are being conducted in observation and need analysis so that this project can be addressed because it is amazing to report that the new structure at the Land Hospital is not expected to be a mental ward. She was left behind. Sadly, this proposal of ours has not been established, but we will continue to suggest it, of course. However, once again the report National Review points to the importance of having some statistics over the services being provided to provide a summary of various measures for individuals, such as drugs, forces, drug use, and other factors, to assess results and also to draw a summary of those when entering a suicide risk. And what about them, and we've discussed them here in the winter? How can you assess the benefits of medical treatment and other forms of treatment and how you can monitor institutions that treat people with psychological challenges under these State Reviews? One of the points points is the National Institute of Psychiatry. According to a report published by the National Review Office, the budget for mental health problems is less than 5% of the total government's contribution to health. The subject of the seminary, however, is 30% of the total. Granted, the use of similar expensive equipment for the treatment and analysis of this class is not as expensive, but it is still a howling discrepancy that actually shows us how neglected this class is in the overall context. Health services. Because I mentioned drugs, pressures, and forcedness earlier, I can't afford to mention the subject as high as anything else. Because of complete lack of consultation with patients, the health minister blessed the regression of this council. It concerned the patients' rights and the authority to use patients, to force them, and to be forced, in which cases e.g. no database on how often patients are being used. There is nothing to be forced or forced about how often this is done. Why is it that the surgeon's office is not to keep such an intervention in people's lives? There is no such thing, and there are no resources for individuals who wished to use non-medical mental health services in Iceland, but under the supervision of health care professionals, such resources are known around the world and truly in the North countries. If someone with psychiatric problems feels that he is able to recover from his illness without medication, invasive but wants to enjoy such a protected environment and under the care of health care professionals. Then it's just not possible in Iceland. It seems so big. Somehow overconfidence that medication is too much for a doctor and that the patient cannot personally assess and perform an experiment and try everything he can to get through his illness without medication. We must, Madam President, because there is so little time left, to bring services to people with modern mental challenges. We have to change houses because it is completely unsurpassed that long-term or shorter-term people can't enjoy going into the world to enjoy going out and moving but because they're miserable. The house is locked up for days and weeks. We must listen much, much more to users of the ministry. We must listen more to the family of those who are dealing with mental challenges. We need a triencing to respond to the huge number of suicides each year, and we need to recognize that this is a modern - day disease that must react with modern solutions rather than with some past solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u160	Yes, Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. For an excellent talk, I'll tell you this one more trip, it's amazing to be able to discuss this report right now when the first winter of this season is over and I'll make up what I've told you before. It is imperative that we all take this report a little bit carefully and there will be some improvements, and you don't really know exactly where to start, of course, that this is a long list of projects. No other report can be identified, but the outcome is determined. A senator spoke a little about the facilities, and it is mentioned in the report that the facilities for mental - health care have been widely discussed in the media, but it is that it is in the opinion of a representative of the Hospital that this facility is inhibited and that the operation is a threat. We need to pause at such key points here and there in the report that may at times not be too critical. What does it mean to have people in our facilities that are a threat to our activity? It is old, it is out - of - date, and there is a great demand for short - term, but in the long run, a new home would be needed, and I would suffer the penalty. A senator came into this and mentioned that her party, the Conspiracy, had let herself have these issues, or had a bit of these matters involved, and I wondered that as long as I've observed community affairs, there's been talk about the building in this relationship, that it's just appropriate for the operation, not in any way, and then you wonder about it after all these reports, all this time, all this time, inquiry, and all the things that have been directed to the government. That's what I'm talking about. A senator's optimistic view of the fact that this situation is going to happen? I mean, as was being mentioned here, this is not expected in these new big, big projects, let alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u161	That'll answer the question. 4th, including Smoke. N., Helga Vala Helgadóttir. Madam President. Thank you. I just want to talk about people somehow, but sometimes I need to talk about housing, and it's amazing to see here on page 65 of the Government Accounting report. The situation has been discussed for a long time, but it says: In 2014, a surgeon's assessment of the quality and safety of services in the mental field of Lands Hospital in 2014 showed the following: The two - point status of the psychiatric facility is widely lacking and does not always meet today's demands. It was 2014. Then come the next thing that happens. In this case, there is 2020. At the General Assembly, proposals were proposed for the resolution of a mental hospital in the capital area and called for a health minister to start working to secure better facilities for the hospital's mental field. For life's sake. I didn't propose to assume that this is our suggestion in the United States. 2001 Department of Health has announced that the country's mental - health services of Land Hospital would be guaranteed, provided adequate housing at the time of the start of the new hospital treatment core. This is an announcement from the then health minister a few days before the election last fall. There's nothing to ask about this, but it's so fun to talk about a second report these days that contains a secretary's promise in the process of election and what it cost because it's no joke when there's a state of emergency housing about psychiatric services that ministers allow themselves to make such declarations before elections, and then there's no home in Akureyri that's completely unacceptable. That's all we know.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u162	Yes, Madam President, thank you. The senator is very impressed with the fact that this is, of course, totally unacceptable and is, of course, just one example of many in this report that is pointing to things that have been being discussed in the system, even for decades over and over and over and over, and seeing somehow, in the right direction. But I also wanted to ask you what. The senator, because there was only this comment on this report about this report, was an excellent entry into this discussion, and I've stopped a bit from the report that's talking about contributions to the health care and share, how the funds to mental health are in relation to the overall concern of the health system itself, and they're being referred to as a factor of 30% of the whole system. But the budget is only 4.6%. So I understand that Psychiatry thought that this rate was considerably higher, well higher 12%, then only about 4.6%. In fact, it is stated that there may be some clumps in this. But this is at least tells us a story about what is missing, and I've asked more members of the council because I feel that this, of course, makes us position that we need to think about the balance, the level of mental health care that is growing, and the financial resources are not involved. How are we going to close this gap? What can we do to achieve this so that there is some balance between the size of the system and the amount of money that enters it? This must require some substantial ambiguity and change of viewpoint when we examine the whole system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u163	Hv. 4th, including Smoke. N., Helga Vala Helgadóttir. Madam President. Thank you. The senator is very much concerned with this second question. Today, the question was, why? Senator and chairman of the Conspiracy, Logi Einar Einarsson. A financial minister was only able to finance the health - care system and received a back answer that it was not about money. It was about something else, and most of it was that the Conspiracy was likely against anything else. I don't quite understand the answer, but it's clear to me that this system and system, which has been funded for a decade, has been clearly seen as mental - health aid is also involved. The need for major health benefits and preventive measures is to respond to this report. It is not just standing below the falls and trying to catch those who have fallen. You go to the cause end and you ask exactly what it's like to grab children like that. in homes where a parent is dealing with mental problems? What's going on in there? Where's a team that grabs that baby? What happened? I'd like to mention an enormous amount of wisdom and an evaluation that has dealt with this in fact in terms of a good documentary called save often gray, by permission of a president. Where he goes, he goes all over the world, including the rest of the world. Talk to prisoners, ask these individuals, " What happened to you, and we need a lot more to ask, don't we? ' What's wrong with you? What happened to you?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u164	Madam President. There is a wide pot broken in a mental - health service in Iceland in 2022. According to a report by the Government Accounting, governments are able to ensure the necessary services for their expectations and to wait for service too long and not according to government goals. It also explains that there is a lack of perspective in the case and that there is no necessary information as well as the lack and failure of policy makers. This report is a heavy judgment and clear that action must be taken without delay. Among the findings of the Government Accounting, there are individuals and lacks in specialized personnel, so - called gray areas, waitings for reduced access to the ministry, especially in the country, responsibilities and role modalities between services, not well defined and contributing to the need for better cooperation, cross-border, professional work practices, and services. Reading this report gives you a lot of pressure. Sadly, human health disorders are not bound to mental health, but it seems that even less desirable to specialize in this area and to ask whether the government does not need to examine the working environment, such as the need for a work environment. Remuneration and the status of mental - health workers in order to attract people. No longer can it be overlooked that these factors are extremely important and that if they ever were possible, they can no longer be trusted in professionals, working under unsatisfactory circumstances, and paying poorly on the ideal alone. The so - called gray areas are frightening, that we are still in 2022 denying people the vital services they are entitled to because state and rural society are arguing over who has the cost, and that the service employers simply dismiss difficult and costly matters, not reaching any point of disregard for people, individuals who have a considerable foot set in life, who are so wrapped up in the cost of no other direction. This is where the people have to dress up and put the individuals in first place. Shut up, you gotta get the service. That's no. 1/2, and three, and the financial debates may be and should never be prevented. Another problem that no one has, so it seems that the list is going to take rather than the list itself. Waiting lists are bad everywhere and are usually there. In our health system, we are shamed. Developmental aid spoke of the lack of resources for people with developmental disorders, with autistic disorder, and with a specific problem. They said that complex matters were frequently turned away, and somehow a case between ships and docks and no equipment or responsibility arose. Also referred to Developmental Help for People with Special Psychiatric Disorders, are often dismissed even if they were merely seeking help because of more common disorders, such as feeling anxious. No other way to view such a view as a serious prejudice against those with developmental difficulties is simply not to listen to those individuals. These are examples of prejudice that we need to eliminate, especially from health care. Then there are the children and the services to them. In a report on mental health care for children, a report by president: Bugl gives children and adolescents complex and combined mental disorders or severe mental symptoms of many services. In the rest of the walk department, an emergency team is assigned to a team, to the eating team, to a trans, to a team, and to a nervous team. While there is no open emergency receptions, outside the hours of work and team involvement, children in the immediate crisis of the Ring's Children's Hospital and in the emergency department at Fosvöl when a child's service and special care department or in the walking department is not enough to be met by children and families who need temporary admissions. The majority of high school and older children are in need of admissions. The main problems of those who commit suicide are thoughts of suicide, and attempts to get severe depression, and anxiety at school gives a quote to overmood disease. I would like to repeat that these young people's greatest problems are thoughts of suicide and attempts by severe depression and anxiety, school museums, psychosis, and mood swings. I've tried to put myself in the child's shoes with a child in my own self, a sweet child who can't get help for his baby. Isn't it? I just can't imagine how they feel so that they don't feel about the feelings of a child in this place. Letting a child wait is not acceptable. Every year in a child's life is enormously expensive, since childhood is short. We cannot accept that inside and out of high school are children who need help and who don't get it to the extent necessary because they don't have money that comes unless there's an analysis. There's also a place to work with school, and maybe people who have their children for hours a day, because I haven't yet met a teacher who's surprised and the diagnosis that a child receives. The reality of the home school and the child living in is the same, whether the lawman has put it on the table or not. The plunger will usually come only after a cloth and a plate, and then precious time will have been lost, and the damage may even be greatly increased. The median time to recovery was 17.9 months in 2020/2021 and had then decreased from 20.1 months, which is certainly an improvement but is not acceptable at all. I would like to encourage the growth of mental - health services with young ones. If plans for early intervention are something more than the words are empty, the intervention must take place in basic and practical schools and should be listened to what experts who work with their children all day long, teachers themselves say, and give financial assistance to a class with the child, although the clock from the other experts is missing so that the school can actually provide the student with the help and help that is needed without it affecting the training and service that other students in their class. What remains is that there are many pots broken and the need for action, especially in the affairs of young people who have mental disorders. We certainly need to put our clothes on a chest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u165	It gives an answer to a what. 8th yrs We're out of here. "Transun Sveinbjarnardóttir Þórunn. Madam President. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Þórsdóttir And I hope that in the harmony that I have heard in this discussion today we will use this opportunity and that we will use this fine assessment of Government Review to set aside the time set and financed the services, mental health care, and that we will be able to see instead of our financial work and any other work is available to finance our mental - health care. How sad that is! I've been windowing back and forth in the report today under this discussion, including Shows up and supports it. There was a senator. There is a 2015 action programme for integrated and continuous services to people with psychiatric disorders and their families and they are in red light in the report. It is as follows: There has been no success in this integration. I think it's part of the problem. Of course, it is a problem not only for families with children but also for young ones who are facing emotional challenges. But it is equally important when talking about integrated service to families where, for example, there is a need for family members. An adult mother or suffering from an illness. The children at home suffer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u166	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þórunn of the Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter for the counter-sponsored. Yes, children and teenagers, both those with some mental disorder or some form of mental disorder, need to be taken into account, but also those who live in homes where the parent is caring for a person, suffers from a mental disorder. I think school needs to be really developed in this context because, as I mentioned in my talk earlier, you need to start listening to the people in the neighborhood of your children, maybe not family, but as I say, in school, in the teachers, and in school and staff who are with these children and who are not well aware of what is going on. They need to listen. This is not only a yes, it will be considered when the problem gets worse, and then the child may be exposed to some form of waiting list or some form of black hole because the child - welfare committees know and no one will know what will happen after that. These matters need to be worked on in some way through school, and in my opinion, there's a little more to trust in as professionals there. The teachers say: "Because of my deep respect for psychologists and others involved in these matters. It often takes too long to take action because it is not yet, as I put it, the child's plunger, and the while the frame is tense to draw, so that it is not fixed, perhaps into school and the child is walletary. So yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u167	Feel what. 8th yrs We're out of here. "Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddottir, yes, Madam President. That is a sobering thought. A senator's point is to point out, and this is one of the positive and well - beings of the nine mental - health teams who thus need a team with children outside the home, young people when it comes to their mental well - being. I realize that successful bills, or laws, will forgive or deal in some way with this, but we have to grab the children in our own environment. Sometimes parents simply cannot provide the needed help. Then. Of course, children's protection involves what is so sad when professionals working with children, whether in schools, schools, elementary schools, sports, or other leisure activities, feel that a child needs help if he does not accept them properly, for example in child - care walks and teenage activities, if that's what it takes, or if it's a way to serve another service, family treatment, or anything else that could be offered but taking months of long years of waiting and that's kind. This is heavier than tears. I don't know how to put it differently because the social waste under these circumstances is so devastating. We are talking about much of the development of a child and a young person who can make a difference in his life, make a difference in his ability to reach health, or control family problems. The fact that we're offering this waiting is actually unforgivable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u168	Jollycous, Aussie Ásthildur Þórsdóttir. Yes, Madam President. I want to thank you again. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, it's really expensive not to interrupt. It's just a waste, it's a good word for those that can happen there. The point is that when child - care or social services are called in, a huge number of things have been done. It's just really late in the excuse of their ass to get them to do something. There's always something like this, and somehow it's wind. Somehow it takes so much to get this extra help, and I'm its spokesman, and I've been in the school system so much that we're putting more on maybe the children who may just have to help over some hair that needs to be helped before things get serious, and it's just the same with mental health issues as when children have a mental problem, that they can be taken care of right away. But it's not well, there's a teacher with 24, 5 children, maybe trying to deal with the problem with all the other problems, and perhaps some small support that comes. But there is no money until the plunger has arrived, and as we all know, schools are not such as these. Much more is needed and is more sensitive to the staff of the school. They're experts. There's been a bit of a burning when things have gone further, like social services and child care committees, they're just like this, they don't need to talk to them, they're just outside, and other experts are here, and they don't talk to school anymore, except in the form of some kind of questionnaire that needs to be filled out. That's not good enough. They need to be increased there, paying attention to the fact that they are not just teachers because they don't bother to do their job, as at times seems to be the attitude when teachers report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u169	A respectable president. On November 25, 2020, the General Assembly agreed to request a report from a state accountant for health care in the country. There the government's policies on mental health, its induction cost, and its goals were met. In view of previous evaluations of mental health care in children and young people, it was decided to focus mainly on adult patients with psychiatric disorders in this assessment. I would like to shed light on a mental - health program in my district, a new service, which is an example of an action taken by the last government and has been important and important to us people east of Hellishes. In 2019 C.E., after a long, intensive premeditation, a mental - health team began working in the South country. The mental - health team is for individuals aged 18 years and older who are diagnosed with psychiatric disorders and who need a specific multidisciplinary service. The team operates, including nurses, psychologists, psychiatrists, physical therapists, occupational therapists, and social workers. The service is designed as a complete, user-sized, and emphasis on integrated service where the individual is in charge. The objective is to promote and maintain recovery, ensure integration and integration in therapy, encourage self - help, and support the individual's life in a meaningful way. The goal is to graduate from the team and to be one of the goals, to reduce the reimbursement of the clients. The cooperation between a team has increased and contacts with other health and social institutions has strengthened the treatment of clients. More emphasis is given on the treatment of initially responsibilities, the management of the clients of their own therapy and the objectives being worked on and by what means. Today, the team is on the move for about 65.9 months, and the operation is long broken. As a sign of the need for this service and for the South, I can mention that in 2019, when the team's activities began, 16 interviews were provided. By 2021, the number of interviews was 2183 in 2020? No, it was 2020, and in 2021 the interviews were well over 3,000. What remains to be affected is a lack of specialised people and a growing team, increasing number of therapeutic agents. The objective of providing multi-disciplinary services in mental health care and the services of the team is in addition to the resources that have been available at the National Institute of Health. The experience of the team's activities shows that there was a great need for the ministry, and unfortunately, this need is only after growing. Even. Bioavailability to health care is very important and, in fact, one of the health policies. During the last term, there were truly a century of health care in the South, and this work must continue during the current terms. Part of the growth was a special funding that came to establish the mental - health team, which was crucial. Our dream now is that a team of children and young people will have to be established to end the services of a mental - health team by now only people over 18 years of age, as mentioned earlier. The need for mental - health care for children is urgent. I would like to know that by the end of 2019, a mental - health team was organized, while a team of prisoners in every prison in the country. There are two prisons in the South, the prison on small lava, the island's banks, and the Sogni in Alfus. The health of a team may be imprisoned, or it may be used by people in prison who do not have access to mental - health services in their health care or other institutions. The service includes those with experience and has increased mental health teams imprisoned all prisons in the country. Mental - health services in prison should be comparable to those enjoyed by other people in the country when it is possible to consider the special needs of prisoners. Total exchange of mental - health services has been made to prisons, and it is important that the services of mental - health professionals in the field of health have been maintained, with the fact that all the people of the country have access to practical and meaningful information about mental - health professionals and mental - health services. The development of interdisciplinary mental health problems is a factor in increasing the availability of all citizens of the country to health care and has indeed reduced the stress of hospitals. A report with the request stated that a report on the mental - health status of children and teenagers had been released 2016 and that it was time to call for a general report on mental - health care. I agree with that, and here I am encouraged by a new report on the mental - health status of children in the country, who believe that we are in a serious position there and are seeing it and hear of an indistinguishable long period of waiting for children after diagnosis or getting to psychologists. It is difficult to assess the impact of spiritual diseases for financial or activities. However, the report presents a number of countless facts. In 2020, some 8,300 individuals were emotionally disabled. On average, 9,740 people went to hospitals and health centers due to mental and behavioural disorders during 2016-2020. The increase in the number of individuals who enjoyed mental - health care, the health care of the capital area in 2016-2020 20 was about 313%. There were 5,700 who took advantage of the ministry. The estimated annual cost of mental - health care is about 14 billion per year. The cost of social security for pension is less than 27 billion in 2021, with a total of about 42 billion. When social security benefits are included in 2020, mental disorders are a major contributing factor in the loss of a labour market. In 2020, over 55,000 people received a check, antidepressants, and 25,000 prescribed sedatives in the same year. Consider this: There is something that is involved in Western society that is increasing mental illness, and it must fail. As a community, we can't afford to lose people. Here, a major challenge is to take place, and as I mentioned at the outset, I have high hopes in a multilingual, mental - health team at that job. We need to take care of these factors. This report we have considered today surely serves as a reminder that we must improve in our mental - health activities. Mental disorders include the most common causes of chronic illness. It is estimated that about 20% of people suffer from some form of mental illness during life's lifetime, and as a result, the pressures of their life - style are considerable, and our health - style today is responsible to describe life - style. Chronic diseases are becoming epidemic and are part of a mental disorder. We must do everything in our power to nurture our mental health. The problem is complex and solutions. You too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u170	Mr. President. Hv. A senator spoke of the mental - health team for people and the intelligence of mental illness, which is a very good tool and is in many parts of the country. However, she spoke of a lack of expertise, educated people, the need to increase in numbers in this service, and the need for service is increasing. This morning I asked the highest. The secretary of finance for the lack of financial resources, and he rejects the fact that this was the case, that it would be a lack of people. Now we have what? A senator not only runs a large part of our adult life, she may be much bigger than my company, and that is why it is only hoped that I didn't understand alpine from the highest level. Prime Minister, secretary of finance, so I ask. Senator: How will the Independence Party and the government make this work except for extra money for the ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u171	Yes, I'd like, sir, a respectable president. I'd like to thank Logi Einarsson, 5th. That's the north side. "A great deal for the inquiry. I agree with that. A senator's need for a mental - health team is good, and they are working, and especially in the country today. Hv. A senator noted that he ran a business and something less than a family business I've been working on. I just want to remind you that it doesn't matter the size of companies, because business is always the same. If I recall correctly, I haven't graduated from a psychiatrist with a special field of law. Then I keep 2018 and Iceland. I think there are only four now in that study. Also, there is a lack of nurses who have that expertise, and they are going to school in the fall, a maintenance at the University of Akureyri, where more than 20, if I remember correctly, have enrolled in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u172	B, 5. Witchest. Gives an answer a second time. Mr. President. I'm in business, and then it's good to get it straight, and that's why I must ask why. Again: If there is a shortage of highly paid specialists, if there is a need to increase the number of people and if there is a need to expand in the ministry, how does that work out as high as possible? The secretary of finance this morning says that there is no need for funding in the service? How, then, will even the most powerful operators react to all of this in a different way? That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me that there is no money in the business if there is a need to improve the ministry in the way it truly calls.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u173	Indeed, it calls for a reason. 1st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! the second answer. A respectable president. I think that everyone was able to agree that they needed a mental - health intervention. Our system of Icelanders and the government during the last term has put considerable financial support in addition to that. I mentioned here at the beginning of my case an example of an increase in funds that came in handy and that has made good use of the very concept of my unique mental - health team. You can't put such a team up the way it was done, and it is of course that if you are going to start growing staff and increasing experts, money is needed to come to do that. But the secretary of finance has also noted that there is an enormous amount of money in the system, and we also need to be careful with the funds in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u174	Now President wants to thank you. A senator for the speech. It struck me a little bit if you start thinking about this mental - health team in the South, which is before 18 years of age and older, though if we start applying it to the capital area, the whole country is. Then it may well illustrate a little how this system is actually a little out of the picture. It also appeared on a welfare committee, or definitely, or if I read some minister, it doesn't matter. There was flight when these health - care teams were created to escape from the third stage to the first stage, producing both pressures and wages. I'm asking why. A senator whether it feels that there is someone there is a problem that can be solved by reducing existing pressures and increasing pay so as to encourage work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u175	To operate on the 20, 1st. South, it's Þorvaldur they're forvitni. A respectable president. I thank you for the 9. We're out of here. Very much for the inquiry. It's shocking to hear it all over this system how long and as I could around here, and also strikingly that we need professionals in this situation, there's a great risk that the people who are for them to burn up and the pressure will be overwhelming whether we solve it only by raising money, I'm not so sure. We also need to create a good work environment and a setting around these activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u176	Hv. 9th. We're out of Suðvest. Gives an answer a second time. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the answer, and I can also have a man of deep character, but I should have thought about, for example. We have the social security system. It's been a bit of a butthole, a mess it had just jumped up and we're not there, too, exactly in the same position. We have a system that doesn't seem to work, and what may be the scariest thing in this system is that there doesn't seem to be any. You can't have a full view of it. Is it not known how many people have disorders, how the system does not communicate? It is not listed in the shades of the system that no one seems to know how many are in or 11 or is being revised by any person at all, it is time for us to revise the types, start over but also on preventative measures, first try to get everything we do to take on the first level and use it to stop this trend that will also happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u177	Hv. 1st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! for the second answer, let's rent. President. I'll be here first to say I agree. A senator in that I think our social security system in Iceland is up and running. I'm just thinking that we should just throw it down the way it is and build it all over again because it's like we're all out here, our grown-ups, that it's been improved and improved and difficult to see out of it. I have also had the opinion that for some years our services, our services, and our medical systems will grow, and our projects will grow larger and larger. We grow older, and the number of people is increasing at the same time. It is absolutely impossible that we can solve the driving solutions inside our future, that our health systems are different from making sure that people do not have to enter that service, and we do it first and last with prevention and prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u178	Southwestern District, Sigmar Guðmundsson. A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir for the talk she gave earlier. She was interesting, she covered things there, but what I might have missed a little bit. That's because as I've understood the right thing, I'll have to go. A senator takes his place in the government, nothing left, not a long time, and now it is that these groups who sit in the government, they have taken control of the government for five years, and the forward party and the independent party are still back in time, and it reaches down to 2013 and almost untimely. The report is what it is. Let us not be sneering about it. This is a complete penalty for loss of weight over a mental - health policy over the course of the past. Period. We don't have to reason on it any more. They clearly need funding into the system to make up for many of the points mentioned in Kingdom Review comments. At the same time, of course, we have news, and then the procurator of the Independence Party is now only on the news tonight, pointing out economics and economis and the cuts needed in the near future. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How can this compare with the recent cuts and the huge structure needed to take place in the mental - health system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u179	District 6 responds. A respectable president. Thank you. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Siger Guðmundsson, for the inquiry. It is quite right, as I said in my case that this report is needed a reminder to us, that we need to do better. We need to do better, and as I also said in my case, it is surprising that in Western society, mental illness is becoming a driving force. That's a lot of concern, huh? A senator, how much our medical system is expanding and how expensive it is to be. That is the solution to all of us in politics and in the future. I have, for example. told us that it is impossible for us to build nursing homes for us now, that the generations that are reaching that age, and that we must seek new solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u180	Hv. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. Gives an answer a second time. A respectable president. I can totally agree that this is a large solution, and then we're going to consider it all in context and we're gonna need a lot of money to fix what we've done under Government Accounting. At the same time, we are looking for some cutback on a financial program and then again at the same time, and I now quote to what is stated in the report. It is that gifts to a mental - health professional are just about 5% of all that goes to a health - care professional, with 30% of his emotional well - being. There's a hell of a crevice in there. I simply call for the government to take this matter off and to put it down a little bit well, how they're going to develop the gap at the same time as they're about to cut down the money they've been talking about and, of course, just refer them to these practical and practicalities that are showing us up and telling us all about what the future will be. So I just want to repeat the question:
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u181	How are we supposed to do it a little bit? 1st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! the second answer? Yes, a respectable president. How are we going to do this? Ask me why. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson me first and last, we must live here with a powerful professional life. We need to make sure that our professional life depends on the requirements we make here for the business of this community. Similarly, money needs to be handled well, but it's not always easy. A senator came to see that the cost is so huge when people are present that they must seek help from the health - care system and therefore we must be more effective in preventing them, and I believe that we will take this report to each of us individually and try to do just better and work with it in our behalf.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u182	The president will have to examine the financial program these days. A financial committee is naturally putting that matter aside but is still waiting for some future change. It's like we're told by surgery because this is how I just don't know how to follow it, but at least there's not a lot of money in the financial program, as it is now about mental health, about 100 million. K. This year's increase in the next four years, which will lead to an additional 400 million years. We are dealing with estimated costs, mental - health services on health care of up to 2.4 billion, and it is likely to be updated according to inflation, etc. This is a 4% increase on me, but I don't know if that's enough for the size of the problem we're dealing with because it's also a natural man of the same kind, but it's also a financial problem. But there is nothing in the financial program that explains how 400 million people are going to solve the problem, how they deal with it. The model problem is filming.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u183	Hv. 1st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Yeah. A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the inquiry. I belong to a group I personally, who would like to see such a shrinking business. I would like to see us treat the taxpayers well, and I think that in this report we have this three - part field ministry, and we could use a better phase two service, which is then between health care and hospitals that are among them. Independent doctors and psychologists with whom the state has not or has not been able to deal with. However, it is clear that specialized employees are expensive and cost money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u184	It gives an answer to a second time, what. 6th. Smoke. Mr. President. Then let me understand the meaning of the words. A senator that is, in fact, a servant for a second and third degree that people only pay themselves when we have an health insurance system here that actually controls the scope of this system, whether it is public members who do the service or private people who do it by contracts with health insurance, it is still an insurance system that we have, in fact, an insurance system that is really public activity. Despite the fact that the service is being done by others, it is with financial resources that the level in the state is visible, so in the case of the situation. A senator is saying that these 400 million may be affected by the negotiations or by the public health care system, but other measures are to be carried out only on temporary charges or taxpayers? Is that what is missing in this equation, which should tell us that this series of issues will continue in the years to come?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u185	In the next few years, it's gonna hit the ground. 1st. South, for the second answer? Yeah, you guys. A respectable president. No, I wasn't saying that, and I warn people that I'm wrong here. But what I did say: It has not been negotiated with doctors or psychologists who might be performing services at this stage. As a result, there are plenty of people in the community who are turning to these people and who are paying very much for this service, and we do not want them to do so. We don't want any part here in our good community, we can buy out of the problem, and another one not this report. It appears to us or sends us the message that our health - care system of Iceland is not okay. We need to make it right. It can well be with many ideas presented in this report. I'm sure we can achieve a tremendous economy in the system, by example. to collect information, analyze and then other things without any advantage.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u186	Senator Guðmundsson. Mr. President. I was going to remember my talk now to include just a few factors that I could not include in my talk earlier, and it turns to the FEE and problems of those suffering from alcoholism or wrestling or addiction. This, of course, is a mental illness. Alcoholism is defined as such by the World Health Organization and the Icelandic World Health Organization, so if people have this disease, then they enter a hospital called a scales, and then they go to treatment and then follow-up treatments of Vikings, and, of course, there are other alternatives, and in fact, there are conditions in our treatments here, so there is a considerable number of Icelanders going to Sweden, a treatment center where an Icelander runs, which is something that should not be needed but is still necessary. In this way it is considered only in this report Government Reviewing the situation at the S.A. and the Vogi, and these are the figures we know. In 2020, there were 613 insurgents and tens, similar to the following year. That's the way it was. 1624 persons went to scales in 2019, and incorporated were 2137. These are the sort of numbers we're talking about. The mean waiting time after treatment. A patch on Vogi lasts 40 to 650 days in September 2021. Those who are considered to be prior to a maximum waiting period of about 300 days, and I'm just going to stop at these numbers because it's well known in this study that when people are weak by alcoholism or by addiction, they often form such a window before treatment, we can put it that way. At that time, the sick person will surrender and will be ready to seek help and lie into the appropriate institution. This window is often not open for a total of 40 to 750 days, let alone 300 days. This is a window that may remain open for two, three days, say it or a week, and while people are on the waiting list, treatment will be gone. The will and the attitude of these people cease to be treated and to continue. It's a sad situation, and, of course, tells us all about the need to do better when it comes to this, because, as I say, it's a disease, a mental illness is defined as one, and that people don't get help and don't get under medical care. This means that people often make problems in other parts of the system. It can then be in the law, in the system, in the social system, somewhere the child protection system. It can be in the prison system or in many other places. The cost of this disease is so great, and it's just fine in this report to some extent, and I might want to use this opportunity here and to draw the attention of a body of members to this very particular point. It's incredibly expensive, like many others, to save money because it's cost, then it's just later. I can, for example. Commenting on what is stated here in the report, the organization is quoted as also a tragic failure, a rehabilitation, and a provision of the house for young mothers in recovery and their children. It is natural where mothers and children are in some sort of trouble and not a place for the sick mothers with their children and then has to ensure access to detoxification maintenance therapy on scales and then lack long - term resources for the sickest people who are on the line and heavy on social care and emergency. I'd encourage a world of Congress to think about this. This is too simply so that we are saving money, and we cannot afford to perform services served by those who render the ministry are always pointing out the need. There are hundreds of people on the waiting list, and the waiting time is long, people go on the wait list again and they die just as well while they were on the waiting list because they go back to eating. The cost, in turn, in other community mails, as I was telling you earlier, just by law, by the system of justice, by all our parties, by our systems, is, of course, absolutely enormous. So even if we can calculate some change of money to or from here on in the process, I can assure you all that the cost, it comes back, and more than that, with increasing weight in other parts of the system, is a little difficult. Of course, there's a relationship between them. Of course, it is just that this is the case with all those who have something to study this matter and who listen to the information that is being presented in this regard. So I encourage Congress to keep this in mind when responding to this report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u187	The President is an interesting indication, this with the window that people have the opportunity to seek help in the context of what Pirats and me has been trying to come through the council continuously at the last miseries regarding criminal abuse, of the very nature that consumer drugs often land in, the more destructive they say they have the much more different systems where the illegal names are still another barrier to take over, unlike those who have a problem with alcohol, and the more difficult it is actually getting closer to this problem. So it would be very interesting if people would finally wake up to the greater part of life, at least just finish this thing. I know that there are working groups and all sorts of things going on. It's not just belts and shoulder ties get fleets, sinuses and lifeboats, and I don't know what and whatever this government seems like to want before you can make any decision that could even have some positive effect, rather than negative. And when you get a report like this and you look at the financial program on what's going on, considering the situation we're getting, I don't see a story about how things are going to get any clearer and better. I don't see any explanation that we're dealing with a problem, finding out what's happening to the drug problem. Especially interested in talking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u188	Hv. Senators, please. 12th p.m. We're out of here. "An answer. Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir This is what happened to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I'm very, very nice and interesting to have fun. That's interesting, let's say. Let us use the correct word to reflect on this interaction between treatment and what is needed. A senator mentions criminal abuse. But I've often wondered about this, and I know these matters quite well from different sides. It is that instead of punishing people who are being treated with illegal drugs, we are not talking about about pounds of ice, they should have some means that would help people and to form some sort of remedy that could be in that case, you have wondered that instead of taking out some kind of punishment or something else, man could go into therapy. How, though, could such resources be offered when the average waiting period for space, 40 and fifty days, and those who are in priority, receive services until the maximum requests for 300 days, the addicts we are talking about there? These are often people who are not in first place because they are often people who have gone into therapy many times. Some have taken scores of courses in therapy, so there is, of course, a particular interaction that would have to be involved. But then there is the problem. A senator only came on, with alcohol on the other hand, and illegal drugs on the other hand, it's for the brains of all people, just the exact same thing, the human brain. On the other hand, when we are talking about this matter from some ethics, we distinguish between alcohol and illicit drugs because it is merely bound in our culture and everything but our brain, which, of course, is the recipient of the materials. He does not ask whether the material is legal or illegal so that it is creating such a huge fence, between illegal and illegal things when we are dealing with a disease that covers both phenomena, if we can put it that way. Of course, it's incredibly dangerous, so I've been a little supportive of going to this crime crisis and actually wanted to go further in some way. But there must be a lot of discussion in the community before we can go somewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u189	6th. Smoke. For example, responds to a second time. Yes, Mr. President. I agree that it takes a discussion to take further and greater steps than a criminal offense. But we are discussing it relatively often, e.g. In connection with organized crime, which is constantly vibrating and yearning for weapons. I don't know what would ever solve the problem, do these materials are, in fact, organized criminal activity, about sharing people, legally like that. So much more is involved in legal activity instead of criminal activity, and I think that violence and so on would be reduced. We deal with the fact that the majority of consumers pay drugs exactly like alcohol and tobacco, which have long - term problems, or most people just consume it in a very responsible way. Some people become addicts. They have a problem, and it takes time to realize that the person's problem with it was earlier talking about how various manifestations of alcohol trouble are not necessarily a community we know, just one of the schoolmates, mine who spoke about it. When he drank alcohol, he became careless. Is that a problem, or was his agriculture at least an alcohol problem? Was there a need to contend with something? That? Isn't this standardized or stereotype down in a corner that somehow has these things, that they're a problem with alcohol? It's not a stereotype about that. If you're using something that's now classified as illegal drugs, you're just a lost addict long ago, and I think that the discussion about the fact that there's just something missing in the understanding of drugs, the war, or the drug wars, or the drug wars, was just everybody that tried is completely lost. Besides, it's not like that. It is based on a lot of lies, in fact, when it comes. Of course, all these substances need to be handled with care after risking hazardous substances, but most people use them in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u190	Hv. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. answers an answer to a second one. Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for addressing this matter, so I might explain a little more clearly what I had in progress when the time ran out for me earlier. It is in my opinion that it is not difficult for me to take the written step of accepting these laws and these plans for crime. What I meant is that if people were to take a bigger step in taking drugs in a larger way, then the community has taken only one, two steps on a very long journey that is how we were going to do it, how we were going to do it. Who is it that can sell drugs? Who can make them? Is it the State? Private members to move. There are all these questions that we haven't even wondered about, so I feel so guilty, but in itself, it's just the first step, and then, of course, we have to see the rest. But I like that conversation here when we're talking about mental health because it's incredibly intimate. Of course, we're talking about those who have a problem with their lives, either because of alcohol or because of drugs in connection with the talks I just mentioned earlier. Not everyone goes there, and you're absolutely right. But this is often highly intertwined because they see people who have a mental disorder, sometimes look for some kind of peace through drugs or alcohol, and those who have been abusing alcohol and drugs. They often need help from other mails into the mental health system. That's why I'm glad that we can discuss this as part of all of this because it's just that alcoholism is a mental disorder, chronic, a mental disorder that can be held down. You're a doctor, not a doctor. You can hold him down. But in order for all of these to be able to keep disease free, health - care systems must be good and strong. Let's keep this in mind. About 6% of all now living Icelanders have been treated in Vogi during the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u191	9th. We're out of here. "Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Sigmar's Guðmundsson over a great talk, and I think he has a very interesting place in this discussion, and it's about the drugs of the U.S.A., and he has the problem. The Court especially drew attention to this, as puts it, with the permission of a president: certain discrimination is built into the mental health system in Iceland and it is evident that not everyone is sitting at the same table, access to the service of the government is eager to make the economy a mental disorder, dwell. Discrimination also involves the fact that certain groups get into so - called gray areas, and they do not qualify for this service as a result of vague responsibilities and costs of lack of capital, design, and resources or other factors. I think that in this area, with drugs and the U.S.A., where a black area and one of what I've been doing it may be forgotten in addition or whether there's been enough discussions in this discussion. It is the children of these people who suffer from drug and alcohol abuse because many children have been exposed to and told of the tremendous problems they will face later in life. After growing up in a family that has had a lot of drug abuse and alcohol abuse, they complain that they are just forgotten in the system, so it seems that these are children who are in this shade and are not doing anything. And I'm asking why. A senator whether he agrees with me in that there is a problem that needs to be handled, and especially needs to analyze and map the way children grow up in these pathetic conditions. 12th p.m. We're out of here. "A few.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u192	The Senator of the Southwestern District answers. Mr. President. Thank you. The senator is eager to answer and ask, and these injections, and include the discussion. That's a huge deal, of course. We are, this is what often makes this disease a little out of control. It is that these secondary things you sometimes mention that they are so great, they reach children, but they include marriage mates and other family members and even friends. Dwell around the sick one is large, and the consequences can be very intense. Of course, it is well - known that children of alcoholics grow up under very difficult circumstances, and there has been another attempt to seize this group. The problem, of course, is that there are quite extraordinary numbers of people who have their drinks and consumptions, and this is nothing as if it is always known which children are underneath. This often becomes evident later in life when these children become adults and come up from their childhood damaged and often receptive to the abuse of alcohol and drugs, just as they were when they were raised. Of course, this is an enormous problem, so, of course, there is always a way to think about these matters, not just from the sick but from the children and the family. I mean the real mental health system we're talking about here. It would, of course, be the most powerful thing to do when children are sick, whether people are suffering from alcoholism or some other psychiatric challenge. Of course, the report here is showing us the blackness that there is quite an extraordinary amount of children out there suffering from parental illness, and it can be, as I say, this mental illness which is alcoholism or another underlying psychiatric disorder, so the report is bringing us home that these matters are not in good enough at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u193	Stand by. 9th. We're out of here. Gives an answer a second time. A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson's exposé, and I agree deeply. This is the main problem. In our entire mental health system, this problem with a waiting list of children who once present us to such shame and are, in fact, incredibly sad that we are still in this situation because we have been in nothing new. We've been through this since I've been here for a year at the council and somehow you've got a feeling that this report, which I really hope we're talking about here and we're discussing it somehow, somehow, that it's going to be one more discussion, but it's going to be done, and one of the pieces is going to talk. which is some very, very strange, if, for example, a very strange thing. The effectiveness of SBE in these matters, both to children of the year, on their debt. We are doing with this limited budget they have and how difficult it is to get more money based on the results they have shown that it is not one of the things we have to be here, the things we should be focusing on by the government and that it is actually active to those who have the knowledge have shown that they are going to succeed. You're doing the right thing, but somehow it's slow, made very reluctant to put money in it. Somehow, they always want people to wait if these people aren't allowed to wait, saying themselves there's nothing to wait. The sooner an intervention is better, the less expensive it must be than having those methods that they are now trying to maintain this system, to make money, and thus to add a waiting list.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u194	No waiting lists. Hv. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. answers an answer to a second one. Yeah. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this very much. There's one thing here that I might want to use only my time to mention here. Of course, we have an EYE who performs this service. It's the hospital, the Ghost underneath it. It's a follow-up for the Vikings, there are walks, the maintenance treatment for people who are dealing with opioid addiction and other things, and all of these are contracts made with health insurance, of course, which is, of course, that this organization is saving very much of its own resources to survive a flood of very much of what they're doing and they're giving them a service far beyond what they get paid for by the state. And as I was here to mention the numbers I went over, there's quite a lack of balance there. But there is one thing that would be fine to keep in mind, too, on my judgment in this regard. It is that services in the mental health system, whether provided in the U.S. or whether they are natural alcoholics and people with addictions, which enter the mental wards of the Land Hospital and into walking wards and receive assistance elsewhere. Since this is, of course, not all alcoholics are willing to go, and they were willing to take some other means and so forth, there are other sources of alcohol. So it's so complicated, a disease doesn't make sense. It's not like cancer, it's just patients who know they're getting cancer. Then they have to do this and these people who are going to be treated or seeking help with this. There's a lot of delusions in the head and it's been bitten off that this treatment doesn't work, but this one could do it, and it can be a little fun to put people in place, so I'm going to say it here at the end that all of this must be a competitive drive for us to pursue the ministry. To this group as many as possible, there is something else that is waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u195	Mr. President, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnundsson, when I had to go back to my previous speech, I was beginning to trace the suggestions presented by a Government Accounting Research Programme, and I was to mention specifically the reviews of Psychiatry, The Héðinn of Jón Steinsson on the behalf of Psychiatry, and I'm going to start with the latter and see if I can get back into the Operation of the Kingdom Review so The Héðinn. Unnsteinsson gives me something that I believe is very important in this series of languages, with a view to a place, for him. A mental - health professional, in fact, brings many points to the need for a new home for mental - health hospitals and a review of ideologies and the content of treatment. In my opinion, this is a highly underestimated point. It is the environment that people are being treated. I remember when I was early in this century working on Kingdom Radio and went to visit the Land hospital at the National Hospital mental ward to see if the circumstances were familiar. I thought to myself, and now I'm not joking, Mr. President, with this, but I'm thinking that if you didn't have a mental problem when you lay in there, it'd probably be when you went out of there because the housing, the frame, the air was like that. Now, I know I've made some changes in this facility, it's probably moved to a more modern and better road, but still it's a very real problem or at least think about it. The setting of this service, and in this case of the Land Hospital service, is provided for decades in such bridge - numbering facilities according to fashion in 1974 or when all of this was built and did not fall for the idea of achieving mental health, for people's environment has a significant impact on their spirituality. There are studies, many research on this, and that is why we need to consider that the setting of the environment around us, the environment of nature, is in an effort to provide better measures to help people reach mental health. This was especially suggested in the discussion of the construction of the Land Hospital at the Ring Road, which I gave other routes to a new Land Hospital elsewhere, and this especially pointed to a dance proposal for a new hospital building that was arranged for a special house for the mental ward in nature, in a beautiful house, bright in beautiful surroundings. It recognized that all of this is important. What I would like to use this opportunity to emphasize the importance of human thinking. Of course, the system, as I discussed in the previous talk, selection of jobs, staff services, and the rest of the system, is important. I can't get over it, Mr. President, in the short time I have left. But there is also a need to consider the environment and because I see that time is running out, just to include the seventh part of the Guidelines of Government Review on Action that discusses the importance of action, estimates, and follow-up, and clear vision of the future. Government policies need to be followed by a plan of action that involves clear and well - defined goals, deadlines, and designated responsibilities. This has nothing to do with anything. We need from our present government, and if it doesn't work out from the next government, we need a clear view of the future and a general plan, including the future. The suggestions that were made in a report. At the end of the study, I would like to thank you again to the members of the State Revision Report, but also to those who encouraged it to be made to Anna Kolbrún's Árnadóttir, a former senator, then members of the Central Party, and Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason, for having made this possible, because the results here appear to be striking, they can also be useful if they are carried out by men.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u196	Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson answers the question. Senator. A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, entered this significant subject, and that is very much of the home. That's what you're surprised at. This huge hospital that's about to rise up there at the Ring Road is not expected to have mental illness, it's like these are some diseases that do not belong in such a new famine, a building, but should be surging in poor housing, and I have to agree that I've gone into a mental ward and examined them while the welfare committee of the facility there, and this is certainly not acceptable in any way for people struggling with this person that I'm just saying: Where does he support himself? For example. is this place. Danes do in good environments, e.g. We tell aviation water to an approved place, but imagine how this system is built up, how it's convenient, how we somehow talk and talk year after year, but the system gets worse, the list gets longer, it's kind of some sort of luck and failure. All those shadows said everyone who falls between them. No one seems to have statistical information on how many of these are, or it doesn't seem to work, either from here on trying to cure disease, or from the fact that we have an overview of the number of harmonizations between systems. Then there must be a hopeless example. How does he visualize the possibility of a new home and a new way of doing things that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u197	I'll be right there. 7. That's the north side. answers are answered. Mr. President. Hv. A senator who has often discussed these matters here at the council Hall will consider the answer at the end of the enemy here: There is a lack of perspective. It lacks complete vision, as shown clearly in this report, because the first step, as indicated by the Government Accounting, is that someone has an overall vision of the seminary and how everything plays together, the different things just don't work together. One thing is to work against another, and there is a drop between a ship and a dock. Sadly, this is all too common today's political problem, not just in this field, that it lacks perspective. It lacks long - term vision. The first thing to fix all the other is the overall vision and the point of the overall vision that I think it takes to be the environment that people are offered to be, obviously the foundation environment, but also the setting of this service, because you imagine that it must be a difficult and difficult step for many to take help if the person has to go into an institution where he or she is feeling almost uncomfortable in the environment, the step will be heavier if the person is able to do what is open to his arms in a beautiful, relaxed environment. This will make it easier to take the step to get help, and the treatment will become more effective. I am convinced of this, and we see it to form in the case of addiction or alcohol problems in foreign lands that the richest people are looking for help from institutions that offer good environments. People are fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u198	Askers 20, 9. We're out of here. Gives an answer a second time. A respectable president. I can't help but agree deeply why. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð. I think it's just going to solve the problem, maybe if we get the chance to do it, because it's going to be in this case at the Kingdom Review Centre, for example. that the surgeon has no overall vision. He points out that it is a problem that individual doctors have only information and do not share it with them. There is no one who gets a flow so that someone can have the exact perspective of things, and therefore we could imagine that some individual in this system could be in many parts of the system for help. But I didn't do it all, so I think if we just start the system from scratch and see to it once and for all because we do it so that it's like he says. I know of my own experience. I meant the person who landed in a mental ward at the time, so it was one thing to know when those people came out. Also to know that this one came out, that someone is accepting them, and then this terrible answer came out. No, you can't be informed because there's no protection law. But the consequences will be disastrous. No one was ever told. It's pretty serious to the sufferers, and there was a smart gap in the system that made them responsible, a big responsibility to leave without anyone accepting it. So this shows how sensitive by system, what it's really not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u199	Hv. 7. That's the north side. left the answer a second time. Mr. President. Although the importance of personal protection is not to be minimized, at least I believe I am. and thus agree on why. A senator that allows people to be in a situation where they can no longer feed themselves, need outside help, or are unable to evaluate their own position and make decisions about how to defend themselves best. I'm not a liberal. I believe that there is a situation in society that may need to be aware of someone, and I know many examples of people being very grateful after the intervention and realizing that if the person had been left behind just by valuing their position and what to do, they could have been very bad, as in that case. A senator mentioned earlier. However, because the person was reinstated, he was able to get back on track. I take to heart the fact that the occurrence of events requiring intervention and that intervention, of course, works much better that the system is better equipped in disproportionately, as Government Accounting points out and convened to address the individual in a manner appropriate for each case. But all too many in the present situation, even when there are likely to be or probably needed to be more than even they catch it, it is not done in the right way because it does not have a complete view of the system that does not play together and that is falling between ships and docks because it is unclear where the responsibility is, who should take the initiative so that it needs to be fixed as a State's opinion reminds us of it, hoping that the government will take account of this report and make needed improvements.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u200	Burt Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, the president of the United States has a large group of paintings. A senator mentioned the exact setting of an interesting addition to the discussion, since it was just about a year ago, a future vision or a report of a vision of the future in mental health matters that is going to try to achieve some kind of overall vision, etc. The main action in one case is that in the next two years design and build before 2030, it takes time to complete it all but two years, and it should have been designed and started to build new facilities for a mental - health service that responds to the call of time and for good reason. A senator was talking about. This has been a year since the report was published and published for review and so on. I don't see how this is going to go against them when the next financial plan has gone out. It's been two years that's going to happen in the near future who's good to finish, anyway, to get this thing started. This is a priority of No. 1 in a government report, which means that lucia for herself is very interesting. I'll talk about it now. A senator reminded me of such specific blooming hours in creative thinking within the sector that it was in the Valley of Silicon, when it was to be in an enormous quantity of innovation, that the very people to whom it was assigned were to create new things were put in creative conditions that are just like that. A senator was describing such an environment that is for people who are having problems with a bride, perhaps something. We're here to live with the government of this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u201	The Northeast District Senator responds to an answer. Mr. President. Hv. A senator mentions ten, two tremendous important things, one of the significant government celebrations, including some. in this series of subjects, without any support and necessary funding, it merely introduced an environment that I'm going to mention after but start with the aforementioned. We see this happening all the time in this government that there are strong statements on better terms, on child - benefit measures, on mental protection measures, etc. Even here, council proposals and bills come on the subject. But when you get into it, you can see that the contents are extremely limited because it's all about the bandage. This has, in my opinion, been a major reason for the lack of a return, as we see in this mental - health report that there have been ministers in question periods with a bill in the Treaty and everything and a great plan to react in this series. But then nothing so good happens. In a financial program, there is no evidence that these promises or announcements are actually intended. So just in addition to the environment, although I can see, Mr President, I'm afraid I'm running out of time. I'll be on it in a little bit if I may answer, because there's one very interesting thing I'd like to say after that. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u202	Which is south and gives an answer a second time, Mr. President. Perhaps nothing adds much to them in a question as far as this is concerned. But you're right about what you're talking about. A senator that you can see e.g. in the Treaty below taxes, a greater service a man looks around, scratching his head, and how to do that? It's just that there's some great discovery, some resounding machine, clearly in this government contract. I've never seen anyone think of giving more service, and I've spent less money at the same time. True, this is always a matter of government management, but it takes time. A particular effort is usually needed, and the product often produces nothing just as it is happening at the same time we are struggling with a trust fund, and I just can't figure anything out. How does a stone stand over a stone here to end when I get the financial programme? Then I realize that yeah, they didn't mean anything by it because it's done exactly in this financial program, not for just one of the lowest coins, as it was during the last term. Now we're getting caught up in the government that they're so unscheduled that they have to gather a committee to make some peace here on the seabed that's the size of the council. There are as many members of the Committee as only the senator can talk about 60 people. We have a government that can't decide anything for itself but that there's a few committees, a short period of time, a committee or anything or a whole council of committees, and then something comes out of it, and a big thing comes up, and I don't know what it is. But we never see anything in it. The plan was for the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-07.u203	Hv. 7. That's the north side. answers an answer to a second one. Mr. President. Me and what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear doesn't always agree, but I kind of agree with everything he said in the second but with what I couldn't go over earlier. I'm going to use the comparison of social housing. I know it's different. In that case, people with mental disorders may be more likely to make use of social housing. It may be the connection in some respects, but we have seen it not just decades but centuries before that the way social housing is designed has much to say about how people feel and how well they are maintained and how desirable it is to live there. I've studied social housing, for example in Belgium since 13, 14, and 15th centuries that are still in use as such because there are beautiful houses in a beautiful environment, the pursuit of apartments, and all of the residents are united in keeping the environment beautiful. At the same time, many social facilities were built in the 1950's, which were abnormally unattractive to promote social problems and even mental disorders, and are now tearing it down in many countries to the environment, its design, and its impact on individuals, and I reiterate what I mentioned in this comparison with service because of the various mental disorders or other factors that require treatment in foreign countries. There, those who can afford such treatment in a beautiful environment, while those with less money can afford it are sent into some institutions, perhaps in some catastrophic concrete box. It just doesn't work as well. This is something that needs to be considered in this overall organization, an overall vision that hopefully comes into the group.
