ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u1	On Thursday, March 31, a letter was received from Helga Vala Helgadóttir, 4th. Smoke. n., that she'd be gone soon. A letter was also received from Ásthildur, the Lóa of Þórsdóttir, 3th. S.H., that she could not attend next week. So on March 31, at the World Council of Dagbjört, a deputy of the United States's Arts in the Northern Republic of Reykjavík, Georg Eiður Arnarson, and 1st. We've also received letters from Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, 4th. Smoke. s., and Spicy Svavarsdóttir, 2nd. Smoke. So, that they'll be gone soon. Today, then, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list in the district, the Chief Aðalsteinn Haukur Sverrisson, and the 1st. A lipman of the left movement, a green bid in the district, Daníel E. Arnarson, In the Dagbjört, Hákonardóttir and Daníel E. Arnarson are welcome back to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u2	The letter of Georg Eiður Arnarson and the Aðalsteinn Haukur son of Sverrisson has been investigated and approved, but they have not taken their place in the World Council before, thus signing their pledge to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u3	Georg Eiður Arnarson and The Chief Aðalsteinn Haukur Sverrisson have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u4	President would like to announce that at a meeting of the Western Council held last Friday, April 1, the Ocean of Ármannsson was elected vice president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u5	The President has received a letter from the minister of foreign affairs asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a petition for this request. Fifty-eight, on the status and employment rights for young people, from the Halla Signý Daughter of Kristjánsdóttir. A letter from the Minister of Justice has also been received where an request is made to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 640, on the possession of narcotics for personal use, from the Mist Mitst Einarsdóttir. There have been letters received from a social and workforcer requesting every time to give a written answer to a covering query. 337, for the recognition of cross-border diagnosis, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and for covering. 636, on the decrease in pensions due to the payment of special savings, from Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. Finally, a letter has been received from the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs where request is made to provide a written answer for the application of this request. 637, the amount of special property savings for micro- and-repeating pensioners, from Jóhann Jóhannsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u6	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Do they want a vote? A vote will then be given as soon as the vote for a report request later at the meeting, after the unsupervised queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u7	To answer, Prime Minister, Environment, Energy and Climate Minister, Foreign Minister, Education and Children's Ministers and Social and Employment Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u8	President. A White Book on Icelandic financial systems, in fact.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: ▪ Complete possession is an important requirement for the long - term trust of the banking system. This means that banks have solid trust, experience, and knowledge of bank functions, and financial opportunities to stand behind the bank in times of adversity. It is important that owners have long - term grounds. Granted, to obtain such investors, it may be justified in giving a discount on a market price, as was currently being done. However, it is safe to say that after the last sale of Iceland Bank, there could be some suspicion. It seems that several very small persons were handmade and invited to purchase discounts, as well as reports that foreign officials who bought in the first trade process and immediately sold them back in today, the so - called fortune - tellers. We do not know who they are, why they were chosen rather than others, whether they have responsibilities or financial advantages, or whether they have long - term consequences, as the White Book describes them. Trust is important to any financial system, and the main source of distrust is confidential and material about great interests. It is unacceptable that the largest owner of Iceland's bank, the country, is not allowed to know all the facts, especially who was paid for, on what grounds, and why they were special. You can see, Mr. President, obvious corruption and merely a question of how far it is. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: What will she do about it? Is she going to let it go?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording this case. There are many things I can agree with him, even though I do not agree with him that this is an obvious corruption. The problem is, there's not a full transparency around the process, and it's not working, and there we are. A senator agrees. Now a budget and a business committee was introduced to the Commission's proposal of the Bank of State, which will take place in the banks. This was done at the time to ensure a specific arm length, as it is called, from the political authority. This process was introduced to the committees, and in itself it is entirely felt that more of the two committees recommended that a subsequent campaign of sales be started. The data published by the Bank Management Board reveal that the number and distribution of investors, 190 domestic and 19 foreign persons were participating, and the most large of which were domestic pensions. Is it also the opinion of the Bank Office that it has been fully in line with the proposal of the Agency since January 20 and its introduction? I think it's right to reiterate here that it was the Bank Office that evaluated who was defined as long-term investments because of that. A senator asks about it. On the other hand, it is absolutely clear from my mind that when government property like Iceland Bank is sold to lie down for who was bought. That's the information the Icelandic public has on it. If some technical thing makes it feel that the Bank Office is unable to publish this information, I believe that the General will make appropriate changes in the legal environment so that it can be published because something else is not working. These views have been made clear by the management and executive director of the State of Bankistolies at the Ministerial Conference on Economic Affairs held on Friday, for there is absolutely no reason that in the case of methodology such as these, there will always be suspicion if the purchase is not available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u10	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister says that corruption is not amiss, since it was my word, but I ask whether it feels that the information presented is a basis for investigating whether corruption has taken place. I'd like to know if it's the highest. The prime minister feels that the steps are moving now and that the rest of the procedure needs to be considered. What steps will the steps be next? There are e.g. the current members who handled the sale on our behalf are qualified to sell again if they are to continue selling the bank? Or plan to go to the highest. ▪ Prefects that other means will be used, and other people at the table? But perhaps first and foremost, much the highest. The prime minister investigates whether corruption has taken place?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u11	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that the information that has been published by both the public and the Generals, including those advisers, is actually the same information, showing that the discount overdeveloped is a much lower discount than we could expect in a process based on this methodology. Among other things, it has been noted that the average discount was about 6.4% for comparable European companions, who were higher after the invasion of Russia in Ukraine. This is one of the things I think it's important to come out. What I want to say to a question why. The senator is that I think the first step is that we must ensure complete transparency of this sale and who bought it. Then we can ask whether it is right to get more information on the matter. V.E.G. The Minister of Economic and Economic Affairs has requested a list of the investors who bought in the invitation by letter to the Bank of March 30. I believe there will be good reason for this information to be delivered. [[The president calls.]] It has been requested by the European Commission to determine if there are any legal obstacles and if so, I believe it is reasonable to believe that the General would take it into consideration. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u12	President. This weekend's news came out of the top news. Minister of wood, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, would have made a most inappropriate comment about the National Farmer Association of Iceland. The comment was racist, disparaging, and hurtful. Now the employee has moved forward and expressed himself on his experiences, confirming the contents of the story. The comments made are considered harassment in the sense of equal treatment, regardless of race or nationality, thus under ban on discrimination by law. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister how it feels that the government should accept responsibility for the protests of the local minister. Very much. Prime Ministers and Ministers of Equal Opportunities require that the inside minister resign?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u13	Mr. President, hi. The minister of the wood has stepped forward and apologized for his comments. That apology reflects his view that the comment was wrong and that they should not have fallen to an unacceptable end. In Icelandic society, we require that all be treated with respect. There is a wealth of government counsellers under which we are to be ministers. However, when people make mistakes and make mistakes, it is important that they come forward and make a clear apology. A minister of wood has done and that's what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u14	President. Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is not directly responsible for words or ministers within the government, but as the government leader, she is responsible for being responsible for the changes in society that it itself proclaims. It's her to pull the line into the sand. If she is going to be a sexist equality outside, she must have some reaction when a minister of her own government is exposed to conduct that violates everything she claims to represent, at least when it suits her. I'm asking, "How serious is it?" The Prime Minister - Overlining Discrimination? When the hard bank hits, where's the top? Prime Minister? Is it enough to apologize for a crime? Is that the message for the future? If a minister violates law, or shows conduct that is at odds with the government's message, are there any behavior that the government asks the citizens to show, is it enough to say, "Excuse me, that was a mistake? Now I'm not saying that it's not good to apologize. Of course it's good. But is that enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u15	Mr. President. The Prime Minister only stands exactly as she has so far and remains there. There is no doubt that the statements quoted were unacceptable. I do not revere the comments of the Bjords Association in that regard, but we must also be able to accept them when people apologize as high as possible. The minister of wood has made it very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u16	Mr. President. I'll direct you to the highest level. Environment, energy and climate Ministers involved in the legislation of carbon emissions, non-carbon and possible related punishments based on climate laws, No. 70/2012. On June 13, 2021, nearly a year ago, the government's aim for noncarbonization was established at the General Assembly. In this way, the law on climate was established that Iceland should have reached noncarbons prior to the year 2040. Some thought it was a strange arrangement to set such goals as this in law, including me, but this led to the conclusion. That's the highest. On this occasion, the minister of the environment, with the permission of the president, said: "With the legalisation of our objective, we are now in the group of more progressive countries who have such goals in their legislation. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would consider it acceptable, a violation of the above - mentioned regulations, and who will then carry responsibility will not be reached by 2040 C.E. Is it the Minister who established the legislation, himself as the current minister, or environmental, resource and climate minister of the year 2040, whoever it will be, and what the Ministry will already be called? I ask this in an effort to draw forward the highest position. Minister, whether it matters that this is a law's objective, how it will be useful, and at the same time whether the Minister's vision is really that it is something other than mere showyness to enact a law like this. I might follow this along in my second question.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He asks here at the end if it's all pretentious. No, it's not showy, of course. What we are doing is that we are setting a very lofty goal. It's not the first time I've done it to the Icelanders, exactly in these lawsuits. We can view those who went ahead and view them as our examples. It was indeed a difficult task for those who went ahead and finished them; and then, when it comes to these matters, I am referring specifically to the energy exchanges we have already done, making it possible for us to have a complete special standing among the nations. Then I'm both refering to the electricization and the heating system. I think I will and will. The senator will both be when the thermal industrialisation broke through here in one small town in the Westland. I think the big job is, when we've set these goals, how we get them. Nothing happens on its own. I hope so. A senator will be with us in the broad political solidarity of reaching these goals. We can also look at the story, for it is good to examine. There is no one who regrets that we have achieved the goals we have achieved back then. They needed a lot of effort. Then there is debate over the methods, legalization, or so on. The important thing is that we know where we will go, and we have a solid basis to reach those goals. But that's the job now, and I've missed something when we're discussing these matters, that people start discussing how we're going to reach these goals. One thing is certain: It won't happen if we sit with our hands in the air.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u18	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister there put the citynest in not answering a question, but later let's try it. I want to follow this - because I don't hope to get an answer out of the top. Minister on responsibility, which was the core of the question, i.e. Who in the Ministerial Mission is responsible for this, that is not achieved - to add the question and ask whether it is the highest. A minister appreciates the situation in Ukraine today, and those showing off on the world's energy issues as well as how it affects this government objective that was legalized less than a year ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u19	The answer is: Yes, there is not a question. It will speed up this trend, which is not only here but also elsewhere. We see in black the fact that energy is not just about climate, it's national security. And fortunately, because of what I was referring to earlier, and I know that why. A senator is interested in the same thing, that these steps were taken, and then we're doing much better. If we were here with oil tanks all over the country to warm up the houses, it would really have felt when this situation came up. Similarly, if we had completed our energy exchange, we would be in even better business. This must be an incentive, not just because of climates, not just because of economic issues, not just because of the nation's competitiveness but because of national security. It must be an incentive to go even faster on the project than we planned. It is not easy, however, but we will overcome it together, me and him. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u20	A respectable president. The law that has been called successful law, the highest. The Minister of Education and Child Affairs submitted, and the General approved last year, stated by permission of the President: ▪ Those who are responsible under these laws shall: [...] Respond to the need of children and parents for services effectively, and as soon as necessary. I support these legislation wholeheartedly, and I don't doubt a minister's good mind, but it doesn't seem to be doing it today. It's up to four years before ADHD analysis. There's two years before the services of speech pathologists. The cuts at the Akureyri Hospital narrow the value of children in the north. There's a lot of kids and teenagers closing up there for lack of money in the summer. All of this, and more is crying out inconsistencies with what we want for our children. There seems to be a lot of inconsistencies between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Children and the Ministry of Economics. Therefore, I encourage the minister of children to tell the Ministry of finance that there are times when they may have to invest in future taxpayers. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of Education and Children's Whether he has given them a message to the Ministry of finance that further financial support is lacking to ensure the well - being of children in the coming years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u21	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Before answering that question, I would like to state that new success laws are not working perfectly. They require that we connect with all different systems, and we assume a three - to - five - year induction period. Part of the induction should be focused on the fact that the service should not be restricted to analyses and the post-hoc waiting lists. Often, this is how many people in many parts of the system are waiting for analysis, and the service is not in place. The first stage of that law, or high to 2 billion each year, is fully funded and partly reached by the rural community. They are now introducing this new thought, and it will take considerable time. When it comes to waiting for a third-grade test, because of that. A senator asks about it, then we, me and the health minister, have started a job that aims to put it in full priority to go into the way we spend waiting lists there and expand our service. We recently introduced it to the government. At the same time, I can tell you here that, at least in the financial program with regard to the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs, we're adding funding to next year and the next few years to the third degree. I'd like to say, though, it's not only about money, but there's also the need to go down in cooperation between these third steps. There's a lot of complications in the intervening process. Sometimes a lot of partners working for a lot of people, in an analysis and counseling centre, at a Physics and behavior station, and then in a town. So: Yes, they're expected to increase their budget. Yes, the lack of financial support has been false. Nevertheless, this is not a simple question of capitalism. There are other things that need to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u22	A respectable president. I hear it's the highest. The Minister of Education and Child Affairs wants to do well, and I have full confidence that he has a good desire to achieve these benefits. I may have just wanted to tell you, because I'm a teacher now and I had to stop at Easttown this morning, stop at the classroom, and ask some teachers what would be the most urgent thing to do now. All the teachers spoke of their need for support. They also spoke of a long wait list of children from foreign lands as being totally paralytic. I determined that 1.1 billion were laid to the SPC in connection with the success law. [[The president calls.]] Reykjavíkurburg can't get any money from the balance fund. So, my question is: Is there a certain amount of financial support expected in Reykjavík?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. Again, a senator would like to say that when it comes to the funding that goes to the successful legislation, the city of Reykjavík is included there because the funds go to rural society according to the individual opinion that the cost of implementing this first phase of success law. Because of what? A senator named here, including Icelandic education and other resources I think what needs to be done - because what we did in the success law was that we successfully analyzed the benefits of the $2 billion that go into it, i.e. The benefits for both countries and societies. On that basis, on the basis of investments, funds were put into it, and we also need to do so in terms of our resources. It's part of the work we're in right now regarding reorganization of the Education and Children's Ministry, setting such a measure on every case involving children's affairs, looking at it as an investment rather than a cost, as so often as to become the case in financial and financial matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u24	A respectable president. We are sitting here in a room where elected representatives deal with the various issues, sometimes with harshness, but more often with normal conversation. Yet, most of us have been blessed with agreement on fundamental issues involving human rights. Here in this hall, a law against hate speech has been passed. Here we have discussed equal positions of people regardless of their background. We are proud of our position in equality, and most of all, it has been a paradox to ignore any form of discrimination and racial prejudice. Vigdís Häsler, director of the town council, reported on the words wond by Ingi Jóhannsson, secretary of the wood, and head of the Anarchy, made it appear to testify before him, is striking. According to them, the leader of the government class and minister should have been guilty of racist comment confirmed by the minister. Vigdís wrote: "Divine prejudices are a huge social ills and bots at all levels of society, sucking up the work of individuals, making them into color or sex. This cannot be overlooked, no matter where we stand in politics. A direct description of such protests by a minister of the government of Iceland must call for a discussion in the community and here at the General for prejudice, which, according to this story, weeds truly at all levels of society, including the government table, unfortunately. In the Code for the Generals, it is clear that we senators are not to bring reproach on the Council or to harm its image by our manner, and we are not to act disrespectfully. The Minister's Code of Morality says: ▪ Ministers are careful not to demean their office of office by reproachful conduct, disregard for law or disrespect for human worth and human rights. I'd like to ask the highest. The prime minister, whether it is obvious that the principles of these regulations, both Ministers and generals, have been broken and that the response and discussion of this offense need not be more important than answers given to the highest degree. Prime Minister indicated here to ask a question earlier in this part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u25	Mr. President. I reiterate the position I took here in response to what asked him. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. Not only do we make the general requirement to be respected by all; the requirement for counsellors is more than that, natural. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson quotes a minister's moral code that says that a minister is careful not to disgrace the office's respect by his or her bold manner, disregard of law or disrespect for human rights. According to these guidelines, each minister will be careful that he adheres to this code, for it is set as a common standard for us. In terms of the General Code, the same can be said of them unless it is carried out by a special WHO committee. However, I would like to reiterate what I said before. The minister of law has apologized and out of the very clear apology, I read the opinion that the comment was unacceptable and should not have fallen. I believe it is important that we accept it when people apologize, and it matters when men make mistakes in this way, as stated in the case of a minister, because such comments made by the European Commission in their entry are, of course, totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u26	A respectable president. I wondered, " Not only do we need to examine the events in this tragic matter? ' You see, it's not the highest. The minister of the wood and the chairman of the forward party has gone forth broken and bent on making a boring comment. First, a political assistant responded to a minister who was questioned by the media who had been chasing this case all weekend, saying: "This is bullshit. I wondered if we need not examine the sequence of events in this matter. I wondered if we don't need to examine the Minister's apology in the light of all the events I'm doing, and I wondered if this gas description that appears to us this weekend must not call for the highest order. The prime minister here will answer in just a more significant way. Because as boring as I think it is to stand here in this sermon and talk about it, it's absolutely important. Do we not have to think about the events before I apologized, and what is the sound of an apology when it comes to that approach? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u27	Mr. President. I don't see a reason for making an honest apology. The Minister of Wood doubts. Regarding what an assistant said. A minister, however, must be quick to express myself. A senator to the highest. The inside minister where a qualified assistant operates. I'm not gonna comment on it here. I reiterate that I do not draw integrity to the highest degree. Minister of Wood questioning this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u28	Mr. President. The reason for this discussion here and this inquiry is a matter of child protection, which has been discussed in the media, where a mother's resistance requested the Commission's decision to make temporary contact with a child protection proposal by police confirmation of an investigation. As a result, a businessman is requested to investigate the position of violations in an ongoing police investigation to get involved with the same police investigation, in order to examine, by the U.S. Department of Life Free of Violence, by permission of President: ~... whether the child's attitude has been viewed by parent contact or other than his own experience in the case of a child's own minor tolerance, despite the repeated failure to compromise with the defendant. It is important for children to have their best interests at heart in such matters, and it is clear that the systems behind the well - being of children in this regard talk with one another. Last week the same organization, without violence, called attention to certain offenders in the practice and to the custody of children's government and to the violence of a child. It points to the overlap of the research interest of a businessman and other governments in criminal matters that are subject to violence against children, much like the example I described here. So it is worth asking, " How can I improve the quality of my children in this situation? ' It is important that governments explain procedures in this regard to the welfare and well - being of children. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: How is the co-work of child protection and county support being handled in terms of social relations and predestination in situations where a child-care committee takes the initiative to sue a guardian or a caregiver for child abuse? Does a minister believe that he can begin to consider whether he can do better in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. The matter can be answered in general, but not regarding individual issues or issues that have been discussed in the media. So I will not refer to any such cases. Of course, as the senator went on to say, there are two systems that come together, child protection, which is under my department, and then the council members who hear the Ministry of Justice. They've been working on developing and molding a work ethic, including some of them. with a experiment carried out by the businessman of the Western Islands, which included the development and development of the cooperation of county officials, police, social services, and child protection on matters related to the welfare and welfare of children. This would, in fact, be the case. magazines will be there and especially with emphasis on children who live in front of their homes with violence. Projects were initiated during the last term in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. In connection with this project, a common procedure in the Western Islands was developed in 2021. As a result of this project, it was decided to assign the State Marshal to shape a procedure for lasting support to children in a more delicate national position in the cooperation of all the above - mentioned systems, including politicians and children's protection. The work force should be based on integrating services in the interests of successful children, a new overall legislation designed to ensure a discussion between systems. Several countries are working on this project, including the U.S. is involved in Breiðholti, Mosfellstown, and the Sheriff's District, in the northeastern country, based on experience from the Western Islands. It is hoped that the result will be, including the procedure for such matters for the next winter. I want to thank you again. A senator for this inquiry, hoping that this will answer it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u30	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is vital that we here always speak for the safety of children, and it is never to be tolerated if they enjoy any form of violence. But I'd like to ask a minister, since I have a chance to do it: Is there a government practice and/or guidance, other than the Children's Protection Authority, to form county reforms, linkance and foresee in cases where a parent is charged with child abuse, or is such a procedure or guidance also to be judged simply for child abuse? I'm glad I sensed a certain change of viewpoint here, but not so long ago, it was for the matter of punishing people for what is called blocking and sending them to prison for up to five years. This idea better not have come true because such an example had confused the situation. Finally, I'd like to say that we should never put a child or a guardian in the position of having to associate with parties for relations, i.e. someone who is suspected of being violent against a child. The family cannot be a factor that is close to the well - being of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again before the counter-sponsored. The work I know is being done at the State Marshal's, based on the work being done in the Western Islands and on projects set out in the Western Islands, is shape a procedure for lasting support to children in a more sensitive position on national level and including different pictures of it, let's say. So I've considered it to be a study. That's what I'm talking about. The senator came in his second request. Then I want to thank the senator again and believe that it is very important that we be on the watch in general but that everything I've said here is not connected and cannot relate to some particular subject that has been in the discussion. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and for upholding this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u32	Mr. President. I was afraid to believe it until I accepted it, but the disgusting foreign bill was released through the divisions of the statesmen. A slight change has been made here from the horror shown in the consultation mystery. Now it is no longer an option to force medical tests to throw them out of the country. You can only force it on a PCR test to throw it out of the country. We still have a warrant to deny all services to refugees, to throw them out on the street unless they've added to their defense that they can't fix seriously ill people or people with disability. I think the Palestinian refugees who were thrown out on the street a year ago would not care about that, because this law would have allowed them to do so. What governments were made backward because it seemed to violate all the humanitarian commitments of the Icelandic state, the Exquisite Committee of Foreign Affairs, made the government repetitive - that is, a legal basis for it. This is the humanity of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u33	The president reminds us that the discussion is for President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson just arrived at the scene. V.E.G. This media bill has recently been discussed by the advisers of this government, pointing to the need for these changes to ensure that refugees from Ukraine work permit. I just want to call the Senate's attention to the fact that there is a bill for the council exactly as it was for the council, as well as a change to another bill at the highest level. The secretary of the material as well. This bill is not necessary to grant employment licenses to refugees who have been resuscitated for humanitarian reasons, although it is entitled to have the right to the right to a fugitive. I just want to draw the council's attention and severely criticize the fact that this bill is being presented at this stage.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u35	President. This is a discussion over the President's conference board, and it is about issues that are coming up on the agenda and the events and other issues on the convention's program on the same topic. The context here is important. I also wanted to draw attention to the matters we have discussed in general, such as the comments of a prime minister earlier. We have a law on equal treatment regardless of our race or nationality, and there are laws against that law, not of apology, but of fines. So I'd like to call for it from the highest. President's getting one piece of the legal bill from the Prime Minister that an apology is not fine, but it's an apology.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u36	Mr. President. The right to explain to the President how this relates to the President's conference board is something we've fought against for many years because each Minister after another, from Sigríður Andersen to Þórdís Kolbrún, is a Reykfjörð of Gylfadóttir to Áslaug Arna of Sigurbjörnsdóttir and to Jón Gunnarsson's son now, has put this disgusting bill forward in the hope of being able to anoint the re-entry racetrack to the people who are fleeing unsurable conditions in Greece. As humans, we will never be able to pass this issue through. That's why it's relevant to the President's conference board. How sad it is to have had a black testimony of the fact that we are not represented by people within the board, that they are willing to let such repugnant into a chamber!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u37	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u38	A respectable president. I think there's something very sad about the context of things here today. In the past, during an unsubstantiated period of inquiry, we discussed the racist comment of a political party sitting in the government, about a racist remark to a woman. We live at the highest. The prime minister has taken the highest power. Minister of Jón Gunnarsson's son to the NGOs of the country. He has now destroyed the spokesaid service of the trustees. There's an overwhelming damage there. And now we're facing this disgusting bill one more time. This is the context of the parts here. This is the context of the situation offered by the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Minister of Human Rights Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir. That's incredibly sad. I kind of pray to the highest. The president and members of the council here in this room are saying that we take matters into our own hands. We can't sail on like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u39	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u40	Mr. President. I'd also like to mention, in the context of a statement. President that we are here to discuss the President's conference board, that this has to do with the issues we address at this council. It is clear that this bill is something that has been trying to penetrate before and that has not been successful. Clearly, putting this bill on the program is a waste of time, a waste of valuable time and energy for members of Congress, and it's a fourth time. That's why this has to do with the conference board. There's no need for this. That's a short time to go. Now we've got state elections just before the end of the council. There are a number of cases that have to be handled at the end of a council at the end of a single green one because the government drew off its feet to present the issues she was going to file for the council. They're making this one more trip, they're wasting the duration of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u41	A respectable president. How about we talk more about a uniform reception like that. People from Ukraine who are fleeing war? Why don't we just talk about it instead of taking this crazy thing on?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u42	Mr. President. I want to thank you. 1st of this request for giving us the opportunity to support it. I'm one of the partners in this case. The report of the past few weeks shows that it is not absolutely clear that it is necessary to review what this report reports. It is necessary to see how the State handles its monitoring duties toward religious groups and especially when it comes to the child's position within them. Last week, I received the exact answer to a related request that I would say, how marriage law laws were granted in the last 20 years and some years. There I must say, Mr. President, the answers were not too pretty at all. The Ministry, some self - management committee, made it enough for the papers to return, did not make the Ministry comment on the fact that a 17 - year - old girl would need to be avoided to marry a 31 - year - old man. The only defense the Ministry put on this was that the inmate should see if there is any forced procedure. That person might be an accessory to a possible forced marriage. There's a lot to consider here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u43	President. It is quite interesting that votes are being voted specifically as to whether it should be a longer conference meeting or not. And why is this needed at all? We all know in this room that when it comes to putting together a matter of Congress, it is always about negotiations on what matters to be done and what matters should not be done. But there's not been any desire in the management sector to have any discussions about how to negotiate the money around here, so until then I see no reason for extending a council meeting. There's no timeweight on anything. There's no hurry. I don't understand why it is necessary for us to have a longer meeting meeting unless, if there's some kind of violence going on, it works a bit often, and it's just being pushed up on the senators and saying, "Just stay here and follow all the things back and forth and be in trouble, even though it isn't necessary. It's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u44	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 383/2021. The decision conflicts with the Convention Directive, which is part of the EU budget. The directive changes the rules that apply to credit institutions and stock companies that have previously been adopted in the EEA Convention. In particular, the purpose of these changes is to focus on matters that have been vague and therefore have been interpreted differently within the inner market. There is also an update to European Protocol based on the development of international banking criteria, called Basel Standards. Among the major material changes are the general obligation of banks to obtain permission and large international banking agencies to have a motherhood for activities in the European Union. The applicant's ability to place increased personal deposit requirements on the bank in relation to a so-called exploratory and assessment process for meeting a system-wide risk is limited, whereas there is a flexibility in the handling of auto-involved funds in order to face a system risk. The decision made by the joint committee, which measures the recording of the model in the EEA Convention, is laid upon the two-part structure of the contract. They are fully adapted to previous financial surveillance programmes. The expected impact of the implementation of the directive in this country is not considered to be significant. However, its induction is a factor in harmonizing the legislation of the financial institutions of the European Economic Area which facilitates the cooperation of Rapporteurs and trade with other countries in the region. A respectable president. The decision requires legal adjustment on the land and is aimed at providing financial and economic ministers with a bill for the implementation of the directive of the current legislature body. The Foreign Affairs Commission, Commission and Commission and Economic and Economic Committee were given the directive to review the last legislation committee and did not comment on its recording in the EEA Convention. I propose, most respected president, that at the end of this discussion the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u45	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 22/2020. The decision is to enter the EEA Convention three types of financial services. This is a Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 on the cash market and two regulations that further expand its regulations. Money markets provide short-term funding to finance, law enforcement, and governments. These types require the obligation to run such funds in the European Economic Area. The objective of the Regulation is to include to promote financial stability in the internal markets and to increase investment protection. That's even. did so by preventing the risks of money markets on the real economy and on the backs of the funds. This is also done by reducing trouble for those wishing to use late solutions, especially when there is agitation in the market. By means of the introduction of these regulations, the European Commission has the advantage of recruiting and marketing of money markets within the European Economic Areas, either in the form of stocks or specialized funds. Similarly, in the European economy there is an opportunity to market such funds on the country. The rules lead to an increased investor protection, with increasing sales of funds and the more intensive funds. It also leads to a better balance in EU financial markets for interest in investors, the publishers of short-term debts and banks who have supported the financial market. A respectable president. The decision calls for a change of law in this country. It is intended to implement a Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 with a new total budget. Its bill is targeted at the current legislation committee. The dedicated actions will be implemented by regulations and regulations supported by the aforementioned legislation. It is the economic and economic assessments that the induction of the three regulations will not have a significant impact on the administration of the state and will not affect the financial situation. I propose, most respected president, that at the end of this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u46	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 215/2021. The decision will enter into the EEA Convention. Part of the EU budget for setting up an internal capital market. The purpose of this Regulation is to contribute to the publication and registration of funds for the so-called growth market. The purpose of growth markets is to make it more attractive and accessible to SMEs to use financial markets to make financial contributions. Here we are adding funding advantages, but the funding of these enterprises is largely dependent on loans from loan institutions today. The directive is intended to reduce the cost of growth markets and shapes while ensuring that the market integrity and investment protection are at risk. The purpose of the projection is also to make registered companies more attractive, including growing markets, and thus make the market more attractive. for investors and publishers of financing. In addition, the Regulation is aimed at establishing market markets as growth markets and increasing trade in such market markets for each market and across the borders. It is hoped that the implementation of the Regulation will lead to a more favorable funding towards an SME's small and medium-sized enterprise in this country. In September 2021, it was announced that Nasdaq's First North Market in this country had been registered as a growth market for an SME in accordance with the 58th paragraph. No. No. No. 115/2021. A respectable president. The decision requires legal adjustment on the land and is aimed at providing financial and economic ministers with a bill for the implementation of the current legislature body. I propose, most respected president, that at the end of this discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u47	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution consults the Directorate of the Generals to establish for Iceland two decisions made by the European Commission from 24 September 2021 in the area of communications. No. 274/2021 is included in the EEA Convention on Regulation to establish a European Commission member of an electronic network called BREC, or English, by permission of President Body of European Registrators for Electrocute Communications. TAXOTERE is a pre-filled syringe. aimed at promoting a coordinated introduction and implementation of European telecommunications protocols. In addition, it is the role of BREC to publish an opinion in the event of communication-related opinions across the European EEA member countries. Under such circumstances, national telecommunications agencies are obliged to seek the opinion of BREC, taking full note of that opinion in decision making. The BREC regulations also apply to the maximum prices of international phone calls and text messages within the EEA, which are in addition to the rules that already apply to the maximum price for public services in the region. No. 275/2021 is included in the EEA Convention Directive on the European rules for electronic communication, also called the 'Collar code'. This is a new basis for communication, which replaces four current directives, largely based on national communication laws. The first purpose of the decree is to implement an internal market for communication networks and communications services. At that, including leading to a greater spread and production of efficient high - speed networks, improved competition, and greater security of nets and services. It is also the purpose to ensure that in the EEA, an offer of high quality services is available at controlled prices, thanks to active competition and options. In addition, there are situations where the market does not meet the needs of terminal users, such as in the case of disabled persons, making sure that they have access to services to like others. The directive will stipulate the full price of phone calls and text messages set for the entire European Economic Area. Both prior EU decisions required adjustment for the EFTA countries in accordance with the two support systems of the EEA Convention. In general, monitoring for the implementation of communications legislation is entrusted to law-oriented governmental authorities in each EEA state. In their decision-making, they should take into account the opinion of BREC. To the extent that the Regulation allows for decision-making in the hands of the EU Commission, it will be in the hands of the EFTA, the ESA, in terms of the EFTA (EFTA). The EFTA government, which is then a remote agency in Iceland, will be fully involved in the BREC operation, without voting rights. The EFTA position is specifically recorded in the case of reimbursement. These adjustments are in line with previous examples, government positions, and the way that was informed in consultation with the Council on the recording. The adjustments in the synopsis proposals are discussed in more detail. The external Commission, the majority of the management and monitoring committee and the environment and transport committees discussed the steps in the manufacturing process at the time. The committees did not comment on their recording of the EEA contract on the grounds of decisions. A respectable president. The decisions require adjustment on the country. On March 25, last year, the Secretary of Industrial and Neoplasms gave a bill for a new telecommunication, I refer to page 461. This is a revised bill that could not be conducted at the last legislature. The European Transmission Directive will be implemented by that law. The General has already agreed on the implementation of the BREC type by the regulation. The introduction of these types in this country will include an increase in the cost of government funds and will be more closely explained by the costs of the above bill and the proposal for action. European communications legislation has been part of the EEA Convention from the beginning, but since the implementation of the contract, there has been a rapid development in the field of communication through rapid technological development and international aspects of the work. Similarly, the internal market rules have changed to respond to the cross - border trends and activities. Increased partner organisations in internal markets and consistent rules have created clearer frames and opportunities for communications companies. This has led to improved votes for consumers, such as due to bills and has been an important field for consultation with the Icelandic Rapporteur. So these European rules as discussed are part of the development that has benefited both companies and consumers. I propose, most respected president, that at the end of this discussion the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u48	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 171/2021. The decision is to enter the EEA agreement four EU types for payment accounts. Accounting accounts are the bank accounts of individuals who are used to provide non-employable payments. One of the agreed regulations in 2014/92/EU Directives is a guidelines for the transparency and comparison of the expenditures the consumers have to pay for their bills. It is then recommended that there be a switch in payment accounts within Member States and regulations to allow consumers to establish accounts due to cross-border spending. In accordance with the directive, the head of the head of the company should include the head of the company. give consumers a claimable currency, along with more, fees for each service provided by the provider. In this case, credit institutions should provide consumers with access to a general payment bill and are prohibited from the discriminatory consumers in this respect. The other three types of decisions that the decision has to do with all the above directives and set further rules on how it should be carried out. At decision of the joint EEA committee, two of the initiatives are adapted to the two supporting systems of the contract. They are fully adjusted to the approach they have been prepared for due to previous level of financial surveillance. A respectable president. The decision calls for a legal adjustment on the land and has a financial and economic minister already provided a bill for the implementation of Directive 2014/92/EU at the current legislature Council, I refer to a 417 case. The other three types will be introduced by the rules set by the Federal Republic of Iceland. I propose, most respected president, that at the end of this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-04-61.u49	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 76/2022. The decision is to enter the EU contract and to implement a specialised bond. A special bond is the debt theories that banks and other credit institutions produce that are not guaranteed by traditional bets. Instead, they are guaranteed by collections of solid materials that meet certain legal requirements, such as maximum share of the value. The directive recommends what properties may be contained in the insurance collection of special bond bonds, but there are only reliable assets such as bond bonds and mortgages. In an insurance collection, there should always be enough cash to cover the maximum financial payments for the next 180 days. The report is about the regular distribution of the publishers to invest, including the value and composition of insurance collections. The release of expert bonds should be subject to permission and official monitoring. Letters of debt that meet the directive's requirement can be marketed in the European Economic Area as Europeanly assured bonding. The directive covers your own spending requirements for loans because of investments in special bond bonds. A special bond is considered to be a risky investment, so it does not require much of its own money. The terms of these types are similar to the code of law that already applies to a special bond in this country. Thus, their induction may not require significant legal adjustments. It is hoped, however, that the introduction of the products will pay for the publishing and trade of the Icelandic loans with special bond across the border of the European Economic Area. A respectable president. The decision requires legal adjustment on the land and is aimed at providing a bill for the next legislation. I propose, Mr President, when this discussion ends, the motion will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
