ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u1	A respectable president. I believe this is a very interesting law of law and in many important ways. This bill is presented, as stated in the report, with a reference to emphasis as expressed in the government's Government Treaty for the status and role of the Land Hospital which the most important health centre of the country will be established, and special emphasis on following the construction of intensive care and emergency departments. We've been hearing for years, and for way too long, the discussion of the Land Hospital, hospital sliding, hosting problems of the Land Hospital, the lack of money at the Hospital, the conditions at the emergency room, the subsidies of the Land Hospital, the conditions at the staff of the Land Hospital, the patients on the run. I don't think this bill will change things on its own. It's crystal clear to me. True, it will strengthen the government to some extent, but there is nothing new under the sun. As shown in the report, a consulting committee was at work to improve the link between Landuses to society and potential users of the ministry. As shown in the report, the requested advisory committee was not organized in the period of law, i.e. current law, until June 2018. It has been less than four years since, so there has not been any special experience in the current law and arrangement. Prior to that, medical and nursing authorities were assigned to work to provide professional advice for the management of the hospital. The idea of what you're trying to do now is to use your partner, to control your partner. That form is extremely important and remarkable in the history of the Western world, quite remarkable. Part of it is being used, i.e. Government, and put it on top of a government agency. But the matter is that a society is entirely different from a government agency. In part society, it represents the owners who monitor the managers, that they do the will and policy of the owners. I can't see it in pars. This bill on the management of the Land Hospital. I think it's a bit of a draft, kind of a job. There's a seven-man government that's supposed to be at work, but there's only five rights to vote. So it is a real government of five people. All the employees have is freedom of speech and proposals, not vote. This is how I would like to say that I learned corporate rights both in the United States and in Iceland and only in Europe. In Germany, e.g. is an enormous experience of employees having voting rights and participating in the management of an enterprise. There's a 1976 law about their participation. There's a lot older in the law. This is called a 'Metbest immunog,' or 'determination', and it is called a democratic region on the business of the companies. There's been a lot of experience here, and employees have a vote right there. The original laws come from 1854, ◯Oxford University Act◯ in the United Kingdom, and the laws of the London Actš of 1908. So it's very old. Now it looks like we're gonna run the Land Hospital with a representative of the staff who only have the right to speak freedom and proposal, but no voting rights. So it's kind of just five people's government, and I think it's totally unthinkable. The knowledge of the workers is exactly to be used with voting rights. The effect is being reduced. I can't read it any other way, especially if we're looking back at medical advice and nursing advice. I haven't studied exactly how the advisory committee was organized, but I can't imagine it being just a specialist. But with this, it's actually reducing the size of employees. It's gonna be very interesting to look after the reviews of Iceland's nursing society and medical society on this bill. But I believe it's a poem that agents don't have vote rights and they're not legitimate government officials. Regarding the role of the directors as shown in the bill, the government's supposed to be supportive of the director. Two. 1st par. says: In agreement with the director, the Agency shall organise long-term policy in accordance with the Commission's policy and the role of the Agency under law. So, what is the authority to establish the long - term policy of the Agency? It is to be done in agreement with the chairman, in accordance with the Minister's policy and the role of the institutions under the law. The range of long-term programmes and policy development for the Agency is virtually nothing. It should review the annual work programme and the annual schedule 32. Laws on Public Economics, No. 123/2015, an independent assessment of them and the objectives and standards set out and inform the minister of his assessment within two weeks of the appointment of the head of the year for approval. To me, it's not to talk about anything. This role does not require control, it does not. It's much simpler that this is done only in the director's office, and he's handling this with assistants who he has to perform this legal function, as stated in 32 st. it's a government law. This law is missing, so let me give you an example, information about the business, i.e. to provide information on the business to the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I'm on a budget board and the first thing you notice is the lack of information on Iceland's Land Hospital. We get it, but it's just not good, not legible, so we can find out what the business is. It's crystal clear in my mind that this institution is subsidized and that's a lot of it. That's the problem. This government will not solve it. It's crystal clear. The rest of this matter is an internal review. Last night's discussion of this subject, which was an excellent conversation I knew about, revealed that there is no internal accountant at the National Hospital despite 65th. a law on government finance, internal Affairs and internal reviews, which says that institutions should have an internal accountant, with permission of presidents: The Member State official of Parts A1 and A2, or the case, is responsible for the implementation of internal surveillance. Internal Affairs includes the regular actions and measures made by the partner to promote economic efficiency, financial security, information reliable, and in general that the aims of the operation will be met and followed by laws and regulations. There is no internal accountant at the Hospital, nor is there any knowledge that there is much internal Affairs. Actually, this should be so that it would be an internal accountant and it should be an internal check in the director's office. There should be a risk management, and it should also monitor the use of funds, e.g. that older people are not in overpriced appearances. I've heard stories about it and read in the news, my sister is actually a nurse at the emergency room, and I've heard very few stories about the situation where I don't think there's any reason to trace it. But it's very well arranged that the business can be more practical, only if you're looking at the bed space. The crash crisis at the emergency room is completely ridiculous, so there are many things you can do to improve. It won't happen by this government, it's perfectly clear. I just feel like I'm increasing the burkraa peninsula by adding this government when the civil law on public finances is not even applied to an internal accountant. And speaking of the Risk Management Board. It needs to be this way about funding, and monitoring should include that it is always the maximal limitation of capital use, that all patients receive maximum services in the most inexpensive way. It is quite clear when older people are in the Land Hospital, a high - tech hospital, and not in a nursing home that is much cheaper, that money is not being used well. So we can be sure that in the first place, we need to fulfill Article 65. the law on government finance, and there should be a law in this bill on internal review. Indeed, in 65 C.E. g., ◯ After events involving internal Affairs, which is actually being carried out in his field of work. An internal review is needed outside the door. They're missing the law, too. There's something else I'm going to call attention to, and I find very special is what the director of the 3rd mg. 1st par.: ▪ The Director should take measures which, in view of daily management, are major or unusual in the activities of the Agency under a controlled control for approved use. The question is, What measures are important or unusual? It doesn't show up there. Then the government has a responsibility to the minister of the decisions she agrees with. That's good and good. But the board is not in charge. The government has no authority over him. I can't see it. Why is that? Yes, it is because the director is appointed by the minister. That is shown in the 38th st. Act on the rights and duties of the servants of the state, as stated in Article 3. 1st par. The director is appointed as secretary. He's responsible for the Minister of Ministers, according to Article 38. and the board also has a responsibility to the minister of the decisions she agrees with. So we both have a board of directors and directors who are responsible for ministers, twice the system. The question is, What responsibility does the board have, and for what is the director responsible? Who is responsible for the Agency's responsibility for a minister, whether it's a board or a director? This is a classic responsibility problem. When assigning responsibility to someone, it must be very clear who is responsible. You can't have both. Let's say that there's a problem, and the director says: it's supposed to be discussed at a board meeting, and the board is responsible, and I'm not responsible. However, according to this letter, it's the director, so it's not clear enough. There will be one responsibility. Another one that's very special, I think, is in 4 mg. 1st Article, of which it says: ▪ The Presidented Board of Hospitals shall regularly inform the secretary of the management and status and effectiveness of the Agency. Then the chairman shall account for the major or unusual measures adopted by the management director of the administration, as well as for the director. If I were a minister, I hope I'll be some day, but what about it, I'd ask, "Wait, who's going to give me information? Which one is the director or president of the board? I'd go to the director, there's a lot more information there, he's in it every day. Just this information given to the Minister, I also feel that it is unclear. I don't think it's working well enough, not clear enough in this regard. I don't know what models they've had because I think in such a big company, they have to watch some model somewhere else in the North countries that works, going well. It doesn't show up here. There's something I'd like to talk about; I've obviously talked too long about certain things, but I want to get it over at the end. The following is: One way that the bill was done was by the management of hospitals in the North countries, but the administrative system of hospitals in the northern countries is quite diverse, as discussed in section 3 below. It discusses three countries, Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. It is indicated in this text that our arrangements today may be comparable to those in Denmark. So we have the Danish model. Now I don't know if there's a hospital where you can watch and see that we have the same model. But I asked a minister after a fine conversation yesterday about this and we're looking to Sweden on this bill. However, the report does not reveal that we are looking to Sweden. I know that a minister has got a very qualified man to advise him, the president of the Karolinian Hospital, a much larger institution than the Landsspians, which is not a major medical institution on the continent or in Europe or in the world. It is very important that we be able to perform a proper national hospital, and I'm just hoping that these discussions about the Land Hospital will be stopped. [[The president calls.]] What I feel is that there is no role model in Sweden to keep in mind about the model we're offering in this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u2	President. Thank you. A senator for his good speech and review of this matter. He comes to specific points that I noticed on the bill, and that may be the overall vision behind starting this government. I'm trying to get this to come together. It is stated in the bill's report, immediately in chapter 1, that the objective of the bill is to strengthen the management of the largest health centre of the country by that -- I'm confused, I'm saying to refer to the Treaty, in chapter 2, that this bill is part of the focus of the Treaty in the Treaty Treaty's Treaty for the Government Group, Independence Class and Left Forces Convention, which it is stated that the status and role of the most important health care center will be strengthened and put on following the climatic and emergency departments and the National Hospital are intended to play the role of development. Now that I've slipped through this report twice, I have found nothing to explain exactly how this government is going to fulfill this project, i.e. to play a targeted role in the construction of intensive care and emergency departments. This is actually the only place in the report that speaks of it. There are aspects of science's work and building up, as well as those that might be directly connected. But I don't think that it's shown how the Land Hospital Management Board is supposed to follow up on the construction of the intensive care and emergency department, this is just no further discussed in the report. I wonder what. A senator feels that the stated goal of the bill is not to be discussed anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is exactly the point, i.e. The role of management in the bill is not clear enough, that is simply the matter - and to refer to a report, otherwise with a fine quote in a paper, but it's not in the law. If I were to take a seat in this control, I would immediately watch the song text and say, "What is my role here? " It's too vague. It's too vague. The management board shall agree with the director the Agency's long-term policy in accordance with the Minister's policies and laws. There is really no policy. This is some kind of plunger rod. This is to give some professional support, but it is much better for the director to have his support, to seek advice elsewhere. This is a fine example of how vague the role of the government is. And with regard to government: First of all, where is the model in the world? And then I think it's important that even the executives could be from abroad, and the case within the administration would be English. Then we could get someone outside to give counselling, to run this hospital decently. We are one of the richest communities in the world, and we should be able to run the national hospital with great honor. We haven't been able to do that. It will not be better if this bill becomes a law because its goals are too vague and its function is also vague. I have the same problem reading the report, the law and the why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u4	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. If we look at page 5, in the outline of the report, in the bottom paragraph, stands, talking about the role of the management board and how it should be organized, that, as an example, there is now the introduction of a new funding system for the hospital, production - related funding system. Therefore, it would be reasonable to assume that a clear knowledge of such funding is important during the first few years of the government, but at the end of induction, i.e. During the next one to two years, there will be more need for special knowledge in other areas that will be in the dough. This production-related funding may be what will save the emergency service that we know was in the paralytic situation for Covid. We know that there was an emergency in the intensive care unit before a pandemic but I find no evidence yet in this report that production-related funding is actually what is to be done to reach the target I refer to above. That is why I wondered: " No doubt it is very good for the Landskeeper to go, and I don't know it, to switch to this system. Maybe that's just exactly what it takes. Still, we do know that the underlying financial shortage in the hospital for more years without any effort in meeting that slanting is largely the cause, of which, of course, the tremendous strain on health care professionals that the situation is the way it is. So I find it surprising that those two people who may have the best insight into how to improve the emergency service, how to improve the hospital service, i.e. The staff, they don't even have a vote on the board. Is there not something wrong with the fact that people who may have the best insight into how to improve their ministry are not even allowed to vote on how to do so? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u5	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. For this with production-related financing, this financing system, I got that information from the highest level. Minister that this is to increase financial transparency. It is one of the big problems, at least in relation to my work at this brief financial committee, to get information about the situation on the use of funds, and to what money goes to Iceland's National Hospital, and there is a great poem about it. I'm sure it's a man of knowledge. This is a natural, important decision, at the time it is, so I don't have any special reason to make a comment about it. But what I do to make a comment is about the employees. I agree completely with what. A senator about the employees, of course they should have a vote. It is, as I traced my speech earlier, more than decades of experience has come to include employees in corporate administrations, partners, and this is a government agency. I also note that it is a minister who appoints seven human governments. Now the National Hospital is in charge at the General Assembly of the Icelanders not ordering the government. I think it would be a lot better if the Allied Council of Iceland came to appoint this government and the employees also had a vote. But I really believe that the role of this administration - they're trying to put the part-employment system on top of this important government agency, which is, in effect, a kind of support. [[The president calls.]] Yes, they make important decisions. I believe this is weighting the work of the director and the management of the hospital, which has a lot to do with it. All of us know that time is very valuable, that there is limited quality of time, and this will increase the writing process and tank filtration, adding much weight to the hospital's administration. I think it could have been made much simpler and much easier, both for the Council and for the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u6	President. I'll share my concerns with you. A senator of the responsibility, which is not really much discussed in this bill. Then in the bill, I most closely focus on this sentence, allowing the president: ▪ The director is responsible for the minister's decision to which she agrees. I don't understand. I just have to admit that I don't realize what this means. There's a government that makes decisions, accepts what was said about long-term policy, etc. but is responsible for the minister. What responsibility? is also a question that we need to ask. So, what can a minister do? He says: "Hey, you have to be responsible for this decision, you a member of the board? So? The order called back two years? Isn't that a little strange? When the minister commands, is that not usually a letter of order, as with the director of the government? This would likely result in a coin in it, 20 million that goes on there on the basis of impact - the individual politician has a right to a session and to their pay out the time of the order. I also wondered about this two - year order: I know why. A senator of any precedents that it is reserved for two years in such governments? Other governments at once. A senator referred to the election period, or at least between the main meetings, even though it can be changed between them, which is generally the ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, that thing about responsibility is very interesting. The government is responsible for the minister's decision of the government's approval. Then you can come to the conclusion that the director is not responsible for these decisions, that's the government, he's quite off. If I was the director, I'd pump into the board decisions to make me a free pass. But it's not like that in real life, there's always a manager who would eventually be responsible, it's him who makes decisions and things like that, so I can't see anything else -- let's say that this responsibility to the Minister for the decisions that the board agrees with will lead to the president's failure to assume that they are not responsible. Yes, if it was a court case or something like that - you can go into such a trial. But the responsibility in this arrangement, in 1st paragraph. The government of the Land Hospital is very vague. When is she with the board? When's the director's office? Also, the chairman is in charge of certain responsibilities. He should regularly inform the secretary of the management and effectiveness of the Agency. Let's say he gives him the wrong information. As a result, he is likely to be responsible, so there is a third responsibility. I think it's way too many people inform the Minister, and hopefully the Council, about the situation in the hospital. Another thing I also draw attention to is that in the management board, individuals with knowledge of business and planning should be placed, as well as on official administrative and administrative policies. I went to the administrative law and the board is not a administrative committee, so it's not about to make decisions about human rights and duties. The decision of the Land Hospital is not a administrative decision, so I don't understand why this knowledge of government and government regulations should be there. [[The president calls.]] What I think is there for two years and all of this - this is demurret in there and should be examined in the light of the previous legal, medical, and nursing legislation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And then it's dematerial with the partner formulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u8	Hv. Congress officials are reminded that it takes two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u9	President. In general, responsible positions are relatively clear to such things - such as the European E - mail administration, etc., in fact even those responsible for punishment, but not directly referred to in this way, so it seems to be a responsibility that is left out of the air on exactly what it means in terms of various other laws and governments. You don't realize if it's anything like it or not. It is said that the director is still responsible for operating expenses, etc. are new effectively, and it refers to the laws on the rights and duties of the citizens of the state, but it is to the director, not to the government, which is entirely understandable. But this is not the case with the government, for the management board is due to take a significant task in long-term policy with regard to the year-to-year plan, according to Article 32. the law on public financial matters, the self - esteem of things you know, such as those in government who do not have the resources or help. For example, a prime minister's report on how the management of the external financial board was established, etc., where there was very limited access to data. I wondered, when it all comes down to exactly what problem is being solved by setting control, because it needs to be clear. You see, I've been hearing for a very long time that there's some kind of problem, gone over the budget, or something like that, and that it can be solved by ordering a government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't see that this is necessarily a solution, nor is it why the other is a problem, since it is sometimes only natural that documents don't last. [[The president calls.]] However, the reason needs to be explained. It's remarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u10	A respectable president. This responsibility is a very interesting area, especially responsibility within a partner, as well as the responsibility of shareholders and such. There's a lot of depression in this, these are very complex studies, I'm not talking about in my own communities. Of course, stock unions need to be able to take risks. Their managers need to be able to take a chance on a business venture in order to increase their profits. It is ◯risk and retort; risks and benefits; linking between them; and in general, very mild are seen on the welfare of governments and owners. There's a very famous case going on over the opioid case where the owners of the stock society and the executives are in a criminal case, but I believe that for this case, it's far from relevant. As a result of responsibility, there may be loss of administration and other factors, and the origin of the mistakes and other factors, who is responsible for the case, in order to identify it within the control system, this is important. But as I say, the responsibility is unclear. I count, too, and it's very good to rest. A senator came into it - the board is to place an independent assessment of things, a policy to be set, and to consult on it, and so on. It does not matter in itself how our policy will develop as long as it is good. That's the course that matters. Having a conversation here and there with the Ministers and the executives is a major factor. It's the course itself that matters, who it is. It is also said that the director should take measures that are superior or unusual under control. Why can't you decide? What is it he is really supposed to do? What arrangements should he take under control? Is it important to make such a decision? Yeah, yeah, something like that. But what's under here is that it's being crammed into this government institution with that story behind a medical staff, a nursing staff, and all of it, trying to mix it into one pot, and it doesn't work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u11	President. When I get to these things, there's two main points I'm looking at. As a member of a financial committee, I often look at the impact assessment, and there's an estimate of more than 20 million. K. every year. Then I'd like to see what a problem it's being solved for 20 million. K. every year. To tell you the truth, I have no idea. From reading this bill, I don't see an accurate interpretation of the problem. I'll see that there's something that needs to be strengthened and enhanced, and so on, but not exactly what problem to solve and why this is the solution to that problem. I believe we have an appointment to explain to us how this arrangement, the government of the Land Hospital, solves the problem that's going on 20 million years ago. K. every year. I can fool around about a lot of problems that have been in the discussion but there are reasons other than we put in a bill, especially a government bill, not just some faddlers. It has, for example. it has been noted that the Landspians cannot stay within financial resources. Then you ask why, but the answers are relatively inaccurate. The answers are usually very specific from the Land Hospital. What basis do we have on a Senate budget to determine whether or not they are correct? It is often relatively easy to raise a staff in the hospital at the expense of others and thus make them appear to be funded. We have an example from the U.S. National Insurance Institute where the Agency received financial contributions from 10 million. K. a year to establish the agent of a pensioner. That agent is not yet here, but the funding is still being used. The budget is being used for other tasks, e.g. improving the information range of the Insurance Agency, but there's only part of a project that would become the project of a bio-employer. You imagine such an opportunity to arrange your accounting so that certain litigation groups look bad at the expense of others. I have no idea if it's true or not. I'm gonna assume it's not right, but I can see how it can be cheated. With the background I have on quality control, I always try to push into where it is possible to cheat, not that it is necessarily being done, but where is the possibility of it, and then you can ask if it is done or not. That's how we're supposed to work under quality control and under financial control. We do not, however, do things that are remarkable about ourselves. The most time usually goes to law-enforcement, but not to monitor the implementation of the law. This case is a bit of the essence of what's in everything that we're taking over here at the council. Our goals, the reasons why we get some issues, are usually very vague. The purpose of this seems to be a ◯bar because it is in the government covenant, and it is being fulfilled, whatever the reason why someone wants control over the hospital. There are reasons why the government covenant is not available, that is, just the will. And there are no reasons for accessing the bill. There are no professional reasons for addition to political will. I find this interesting because it is a political will that costs 20 million. K. every year. It's as simple as that. There is no question about how to achieve the same results through less expensive solutions, which is just one of the definitions of how to proceed with a plan on public finances that this management should follow when setting up plans and the like. All the duties of the civil law set up as Ministers and the Commission are already in the present arrangement of 20 billion. K. Shorter, so I'll mention it again. But for some reason it is not done. Is it because there is a lack of professional activity? Could the government really be involved? If so, you would think that the duties and responsibilities of the government were better defined from that point of view, but they are not. It's missing. I wonder, like what. paritaprevir Eyjólfur's Ármannsson, this chain of responsibility. In any case, the process works on a level, so it's a minister responsible for everything, if we look at the Minister's Act. However, there may be circumstances in which a minister simply trusts a professional government to carry out the legal tasks that the General Committee establishes. It can screw up in some way, completely without the entrance minister. However, the minister is responsible, but the responsibility is definitely different from that of a minister who had directly divided himself from a failure. There is a difference between such responsibilities. If a minister is involved in the Commission's decision on a professional administrative procedure, such as In the National Court case, a minister is absolutely responsible under the laws of Ministerhood. If a minister simply trusts a professional administration to comply with the legal process as it goes and goes wrong, then a case is still appealed to a minister who is certainly responsible, but another kind of responsibility because the minister of that office was simply as a standard responsibility on the behalf of professional government. There's nothing wrong with that, we have this anonymous government system. Here we have some kind of scattered responsibility, for, of course, the presidents of state take a certain responsibility for daily business and the implementation of various laws, although at last ministers have a similar responsibility for the case as such. But here it is being added to a government that is responsible for a minister's responsibility for the decisions she agrees with. She is expected to accept responsibility from the director of the Agency, who is otherwise responsible for ministers. However, there is a difference between the President's responsibility under the laws on the rights and duties of the servants of the State, but it is not clear that this applies to the government, which is interesting. Why not? I have no idea. So, is it really just dilution for responsibility? When it comes to handling responsibility and responsibility, there is one important factor that is very important, and it is that it is clear who is responsible and what responsibility it is to shoulder each time. What does it mean when a government agrees with long-term policy or for example? plan for the year, and somehow screw it up? What kind of responsibility is that? Should the Minister be notified? Did the wrong analysis come from some number about the operation of the minister's hospital? What is that responsibility? There are some possibilities there, and I can't help seeing that this is just diluting on responsibility. If a minister or president held this responsibility, such as the laws on the rights and responsibilities of the State or the privileges of ministers, the consequences would be certain, but if such a procedure is placed on the hospital administration, the consequences will not be the same. We must realize that responsibilities will result in consequences if there is some confusion. Otherwise, taking responsibility and responsibility does not mean anything. It's very common for the Icelanders, it's everyone shouldering responsibility but getting the extra money and all sorts of things, a higher salary for carrying heavy responsibility, and then when something gets screwed up, it's said: "We have to show this understanding, these were external circumstances and all kinds of such nonsense. No one is responsible somehow, not only in the public government but also in the private market, in the general market. Everyone takes responsibility, always. I understand in some way that people try to distribute their responsibility, share it in some way, and feel uncomfortable having screwed up and having to admit it and try as if they could escape responsibility. But that is a culture. I think it's a very bad culture. We somehow take responsibility, just in general, by having this culture that your rule of thumbs is that everyone assumes responsibility and doesn't do it. I believe that the only way we can develop and learn how to handle assignments and learn how to improve and to do better is to accept responsibility and responsibility. This can be done. It has been tried, to feel, to my opinion, during the past few decades, where officials have repeatedly taken responsibility or excused responsibility, had insurance, protected their friends who are obviously not doing very intelligent things - that they have undermined trust. It makes the appearance of some moose defending themselves and their own. It'll infect you. If even those in authority cannot accept responsibility, why should a citizen accept some responsibility? They create a culture of flight. Therefore, I believe that the need for responsibilities is clear, and the recognition of legal responsibility cannot be set. It's a cultural thing. This is something that people have to think about and take personal responsibility, make a personal decision. There's nothing in the law that can tell anyone or anyone to admit something that goes wrong, but we can try. Those who should best show how to do so are people who have so much responsibility, such as those in positions of authority, presidents of the Kingdom, and others in it. Have a higher salary because of their heavy responsibilities. I don't see the problem that's supposed to be solved by this change. I don't see how this is a solution to a problem that I don't know where it is, and I don't see that this is even a good way to change according to the current arrangement because it spreads responsibility in some way that I don't really know if our culture is positive and how our responsibility works.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to come in on a few things. I've been windowting on the bill, and I was wondering: Is the bill involved and is it suggested to do things more professionally, or is it to be able to fit some manager who might be having some sort of trouble or be difficult and up until now? In this case, if the bill continues to agree, the director will not be the Supreme Authority, but he must seek advice and opinion. That's good, I'd think. Of course, we'd like to have belts and bracelets on these matters. Maybe that's what scares us most, I think I must be, if there's someone left alone, if any one has too much control and can do exactly what he wants. There may be no restrictions on him, and this will certainly test who is in office. There's something we don't want to do in a democracy. In this regard, I understand that a minister is in charge of whom he appoints, but he also appoints a three - member committee that suits candidates. I'm thinking: Is it so that a minister will choose only someone acceptable to him who will then decide who is qualified and then appoint that one? Is it not, then, simply so that when the process is completed, the minister is determined to determine who will be chosen? Do we have belts and bracelets over there? I'd also just like to step up with a representative of the board's employees who don't have votes but have freedom of speech and right to propose, and of course thank you. But why doesn't he have a vote? These are the personnel, where would the National Institute of Health be without staff? I have to say, I think it's rather humiliating with the staff. It is as if they are not trusted to vote, so that they can form a professional opinion and get to have a vote. If I was an employee, I'd feel humiliated. There would be no service and nothing to do if the National Institute of Health did not have qualified personnel. If we look at the staff group that's been fighting an incredible battle during this two-year Covid period, you're kind of surprised that the group's standing up and could have done everything they've done. But in the past, before the arrival of Covid, this group was also under extreme pressure. This group of people suffer from serious illness and distress. I've heard of a lot of difficult cases at the Land Hospital, a lot of it because when people feel down at work and are under a lot of stress, there's a greater chance that there's a lot of harassment and other behaviors that happen when the staff is not well cared for. On top of all this, there's such a thing: Okay, you get to participate, but you don't get to vote. That's not good enough. I feel that this need to be revised and adjusted so that the staff can be treated with due respect, and we can say: "We trust you to vote accurately according to your convictions. There's one thing and another in this that I also want to come on, which, in fact, has been talked about a little about here, it's about the responsibility. I have to say, I wasn't quite clear, and I kind of had to read everything about my responsibility two or three times to figure out who's responsible for what. I would, for example. To ask, because it says that the director has the exclusive responsibility of a minister: What exactly does this exclusive responsibility mean? I'd also like to come back into it for a while. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned earlier: Even though the people do foul up in these highest places, we know well that it is rare; I can't remember any case, that someone has to take his bag. But what does it mean when you say "divide"? Maybe I'd like an definition of this. Then there are professional managers and responsible for professional service. Then we are probably talking about operations and other medical procedures or projects. This isn't quite clear, and I have to agree with what's happened before, and somehow the responsibility of the bill needs to be sharpened. There are these three points, the one-on-one thing with that great power. Is the bill designed to do this more professionally and to distribute the responsibility and authority so that there is no one who does anything that is potentially harmful? Or is this done because, in the light of history, people, although the government, may have been able to see that the hard people on board had just some trouble and the only way to get rid of them would be to offer them expensive retirement contracts or something like that? Either way, you want to see that it's rather intended to make things more professional and we're getting more involved in democracy, i.e. More people arrive at the table in big decisions. I think I've been over the main points. With the hospital, I'll never be the person standing here who says all of this can be fixed. What's the deal here? Why is this hospital so fucked up? Is it not something you can do to make it neat? I know it's not like that. It's an enormously complex system, and it's difficult to say: One of the two, three good decisions must be made, and even if large financial resources are provided, I don't necessarily say that everything will be good after that. It's more complicated than that. I once talked to a doctor about these matters. I said, "What do you think of the Land Hospital?" "Why is this always an eternal problem?" It's always such a horrible, empty bed and money all the hell out of it? This doctor was a little older than I was in years. He said, "Yes, my Kolbrún, it will not be in our lives that these matters will be solved. " This was a bit in my head, so I've totally accepted that it probably won't be in my life that the land hospital's affairs will solve. But what do you know? It's complicated, and I'm not about to scribble one or anyone for not making these matters so that everyone is happy. But I want to see the staff happy. I want respect for the staff who are working on an enormous amount of work, far beyond what we can count normal for a person who also wants to have his own life with his family and to have time to spend. I want the staff invited to come aboard, their representative, and vote. There's one thing. I'd also like to think that we're going toward democracy and professionalism, but this isn't just because some hard experience has told us that we need to stop some naughty manager or something like that, and I have no confirmation of it. Then, of course, it would be fun to compare ourselves with other countries we would like to compare with, where people shoulder responsibility for their mistakes. If it makes a big mistake in a job, it simply takes its bag. Of course, this is also to be done in honor of the General and other forms of government. If there is a mistake, whether it is against law or moral or judicial authority, and any of these things need to be entered, people should be replaced, they are to take their bag. There's nothing but a sure thing. But such is just an isolated thing in our society. I think there's two or three here at the Council who've ever resigned because of something like that, I just don't have that completely. But this is nowhere in the country. We've just always been so quick to forget, nation. I'm sorry, I don't know, but it may not be in my life that there will be some change in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a good talk, beige Kolbrún's Baldursdóttir. I'd decide what to do with it. A senator said that there was a certain disrespect for the staff, that its representatives in a government did not have the rights of other government members. People have been talking about how the staff of the Land Hospital have been raising a crisis over the last two years, but they have also been talking about the seriousness of the situation at the Land Hospital regarding pleasure, pay, and so forth. Because I know why. A senator has worked with workers and people for many years if not decades, I wanted to look into her experience world about what needs to be kept in mind when this board and the current director are going to tackle the state of the Land Hospital in terms of work environment, professional coldness, job escape. In case of a moment. A senator might consider a few things that need to be considered based on her experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Hyundni Ólafsson for his answer and question. I love this question very much. That's right, I've been working as a psychologist for more than 30 years, and for a time, I was conducting a course for the National Hospital's staff of well - being and only everything involved in a career pleasure. I know it's a very large group of employees, but it's so important for the people who are doing this intense work - fun and sorrow follow this job; in one room being born to a baby, and in the next room maybe someone is dying, so there's tremendous emotional fluctuations that happen in this job - to be respected for the staff so that they can be upreaching it in all fields, besides that we want to see a good reward and reward and that it's not too stressful but something normal that a person can endure to the length. Of course, all of us can handle our colours, but then we need to get some rest. It has to be all under collective agreements and what we know there, but also that it's being listened and they find a connection with the administration, that the administration knows how we're going on the floor, it's going to come to us, it's talking, looking to us for advice on so many things at such a big institution. It's so complicated. In the workplace where these are not such, there is a much greater chance that they will develop negative behavior, back - talk, harassment, and all of that. I could talk for hours about bullying because there's been one of my expertise in being a psychologist, but I can see that there's got to be a better time unless I come back to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u15	President. Thank you. A senator for this form of counter-reguage. It totally matches my personal experience from working in very difficult situations around the world following a disaster. People can work under difficult circumstances. People can work in the dark, especially when they are being carefully held by government officials and people are recognized, even if only in word, that they are doing good things. But I wanted to touch another point like that. A senator mentioned the matter of shouldering responsibility. You're right. A senator pointed out that taking responsibility seems to result in very few people at the General Assembly, and at times it seems that taking responsibility leads to bad consequences in politics. This is what the North countries around us believe is evidence of maturity and leadership, taking responsibility. But we also saw it when we were dealing with Covid that the trident was ready to take responsibility, it was ready to say, "Yes, we made a mistake. " I gave you permission for something I shouldn't have given you permission for. And then we often accepted it much earlier. My question is the very world of experience. A senator: Is it not far more important to acknowledge and correct the mistakes and thus accept responsibility than always to give up? Of course, humans need to be replaced when men do something very important. But do we not need to learn to admit and process mistakes as well as always try to cover them?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u16	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this answer. I just want to finish the staff business. I sincerely hope that the transition will be made to the staff manager because, as I said earlier, it is only humiliating. About the mistake, oh, yeah, right. And speaking of responsibilities; accepting responsibility is just the thing about making mistakes and wanting to make up for the mistake, and hopefully it can be done. Sad to say, mistakes are sometimes irreversible and cannot be completely improved. There's a situation I don't wish anyone. Sadly, though, people make mistakes that cannot be corrected, which is often a horrible burden to bear. But then there's the third thing - learning from your mistakes and saying, "Yes, I made a mistake. " I want to make up for it, whether it's by saying sorry, sorry about anything or anything, and I'm going to learn from my mistakes, I'm not going to repeat this mistake. If we go the other way, we also make those who fail to accept responsibility, refuse to admit mistakes, and even deny mistakes. There are examples of this. There is a record of someone making a mistake, but he says: "It's not me. It is possible to react in this way or to bring justification, blaming others for: circumstances were difficult. I was meant to do this. I was challenged. I think there's just enough psychology today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u17	A respectable president. It has been interesting to observe a discussion on this interesting subject, a bill to correct a change in health care law. It is primarily about that the government intends to appoint seven people over the Hospital. I want to make it clear right away that I think it's an important step, I think it's right, but that's the move I'm going to do a little better in. First and foremost, I would like to make it clear that we, who want a strong health system, rests on having strong and strong public health institutions, whether in the country or here, but the core of this public tunnel is, of course, the Landspitaholic, our national hospital. It's going to turn into a demolition. There, the hospital will have to feel that he has the backing of the authorities, as well as those here, but also that he has to find firm support, upbuilding support, and upbuilding criticism because his assignments are good and different to the hospital. Then there is the other side of this strong health system, while having these powerful government agencies, which, of course, are independent health institutions. I am convinced that these two are capable of having a good relationship if it is clear to you what the responsibility of the institution is and what its role will be. When we look over the budget and see that the Landspians have a total of 100 billion per year, about 8% of what the State generally puts out on every case, it is reasonable to ask: How do we defend this? We're going to see the most natural way of investing, and we've been blessed with investing in the hospital, but there's never enough to do. It's like that too. I believe it will be very important for the staff of the Land Hospital, consumers, i.e. Patients, patients, and managers, whether in councils or in hospitals, are reassigned to new hospitals. I hope it's four, five. I hear it's actually now 2027, that's five years. It's a little far, but I think it's going to make a difference for the hospital. We are familiar with this discussion, and it is very fine in the report that when the board was put down 2007, including 2007. on the grounds that the responsibility was not clearly defined by those in the hospital administration then, that it was not clear enough, that it was tried to coordinate the responsibility and control of the Land Hospital, and that it was put into the same environment as those in other government institutions. All right. It was then, no doubt with reasons, all trying to do better. But now we're seeing this in the light of increased levels, both financially and financially at the hospital, as well as from staff and working environment, that there is a better and clearer procedure. Is it a guarantee that the government of the hospital will let us see more about how money is spent? We know this discussion here at the council and in the community. It is not necessarily the same as putting capitals in a particular group of cases, whether it is health, education, or other, and the result, depending on the amount of money applied to the relevant areas. It is only natural, then, that we ask: Do we make the most use of the funds so that we can strike this important armor city, this health - armored city, this community - care center, about the patients who need help from the hospital? I think, as I said before, that as for now, it is important that we take this step. I support this arrangement, but at the same time, I do not support it unchanged, not as it lies here. I agree with what's been said, that there needs to be a better explanation of responsibility and authority to the minister and also the presence of those in the board, including the employees. It's the right thing to do, but there's a problem with this bill. We need to take into account the criticism that has been presented here in the Senate Hall, and I think it is valid and demeaning. There's a lot of work to do. The idea here given on behalf of the minister and the government is of the good, but it is important to try to reach out to the council and to people who will give reviews of the matter and try to put it into better, clearer costumes. Maybe that's what I'd wanted to see, that this would be done clearer. In terms of government demand, I would like to agree with many of the words that have occurred here and before in this discussion. There's a lot of work to take, but... paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason has come into interesting things, and I want to make his word my own. It is a question of whether the requirements set out in the bill make it more difficult for qualified people to volunteer for the hospital. I think we need to take a special look at this, and I know why. The welfare committee will. Of course, we need to set requirements for proper knowledge and experience, but at the same time, we also need to look to the government, in my opinion, as well as a measure of the overallness of which is valuable, varied experience, and knowledge. We are required to make demands, and we are expected to set up a set framework for the administration, but it is not to be done out of the way for those who might otherwise benefit and help to reach our goals to continue moving further with excellent hospitals. In my opinion, it is also important that the authority's influence be in harmony with the responsibilities expected of the management of the hospital's organization and self - management. I think it's a bit uncertain and somewhat vague, considering the content of the bill, to form when it comes to the recruitment of the director and the influence of the board there. This should be kept in mind that the role of the directors can function as well as it should. I want to take even. comments from a business agency that includes conducted by Hospital Management Committees in the North countries, this is an interesting reading. They point out that with this bill, the board is some kind of transition between the minister and the director. The board should then propose a proposal to the Minister for Director, according to the opinion of the Commission as the Minister. The management board is to make a decision on important matters relating to the hospital's operations and activities, which, in fact, are not adequately defined, but are not responsible for this, including the procedure. ... thepresident'scommand. This is something I'm going to the highest. Minister to push the committee to examine specifically, i.e. that the responsibilities of the government are perfectly clear in this regard. I believe, because we are taking this step, it will be better for the government to carry this irrefutable responsibility both to hire and at the same time drive directors if so. So that the management board can actually monitor and support the hospital activities, the law itself and the measures we take here must better grasp this precisely; the responsible field, the monitoring, the management board. So I hope that these sources will be cut off in order to make the government's responsibilities clearer and sharper in this respect. If we are to look to the northern countries that I believe would be successful in many ways, we need to go further on this bill and actually make the hospital's management manager of the hospital, as a business committee points out, and I want to agree with the words there. I'd like to go over a staff participation. I think this is interesting and it's gonna be a little exciting to see how the council and the committee will work out. As this is built up here, the staff should be in command, but in fact, just sitting rights, they don't get any votes. And then you ask yourself, " If we're sharpening the authority's responsibilities, the director's role, what role do employees play? ' Is it not, as it has been pointed out, simply saying, "Okay, well, the staff is inside the board, but it's just an audience and it's not responsible for the government as such? Or simply going the other way that I think it is most agreeable to be examined, that employees will be formally appointed in a vote-right administration, but they also have responsibilities as rulers, with the result of being in control. This needs to be clearer, there's something to cut off this uncertainty so that it becomes quite clear what the employee's role is because it can be placed in a position of inadequacy. Whether the opportunity for workers to be too limited to become knowledgeable is a matter of trying to gain knowledge, then it may be useful to the decision - making process that needs to take place within the government. This can affect both hospital management and policy quality, but it can also affect the staff itself. So I think that this needs to be examined, and of course it's urgent that the staff have a representative, and it will be absolutely certain that there may be useful indications and important comments, thus protecting the position of the staff who are doing an enormously important job in our behalf. Also, it has to be done to ensure that workers are coming to push forward the trends we need to see and that the hospital needs to be on hand. This is a natural, changing environment that the hospital faces and that needs to be decided on, and I think a future government needs to decide which projects the hospital is to take and where it needs to be prioritized. It has, for example. Lack of it, it is not quite clear what is responsible for making that decision. When e.g. taking cancerskis to Hospital? Is it just a political decision, as it was here during the last term, to cancel various activities that have been used to form an independent health care provider and have brought it into the hospital? I think it's something that's gonna be supportive of the hospital, that there's a discussion in the board, and thus the professional staff involvement, about what the hospital should do, and what not, and how we can strengthen our local hospital so that they can keep the hands of patients who need help and care. A minister has suggested that a representative of the staff come with a professional voice into the board, but if so, I think their effect will be somewhat limited. I think the council will still be a little concerned about it: Should employees carry governmental responsibilities that result from a formal session on a board, or is it better that they have an official right? I have criticized or pointed to two factors, one on the other, the boundaries of the administration and the responsibilities of a government to the minister and to the establishment of staff. Nevertheless, there are many things in the bill that are worth the progress of the matter here at the council, but only after the Council Committee has considered these comments and this, in my opinion, an objective discussion that has taken place on the role of the hospital in our community. I think it'll be an exciting job with a welfare committee but, as I say, I want to encourage her to have a conversation with stakeholders. But at the same time, a little checking into this conversation that I think was interesting about the real role the hospital should play. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u18	A respectable president. That's exactly what I want to ask you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir into her final statement on the role of the government. I have been thinking about the stated aims of setting up this government over a land hospital, as they show in a report. That's what's going on, Il. chapter 3, on page 24. 2., that the bill is a factor in the implementation of the priorities set out in the Treaty for the National Cooperation Group, Independence Group and Left Forces, which shows that the status and role of the Hospital as the most important health centre of the country will be reinforced and that special emphasis is placed on following the construction of intensive care and emergency departments. The hospital's management is designed to play a major role in this development. As I read the report, I cannot see how this government's role or its aims match that goal. In fact, there is no mention of it again. When that is the case with the board itself and who should sit in it, the only thing I feel is to take some form of induction into the hospital's new funding system, production-related funding - this is shown on page 5. 5, bottom - and it can be assumed that professional knowledge of such funding is important during the first few years. But there is no question as to how this level of expertise should contribute to these objectives or how this management should meet the goal of these policies or why the administration of a land hospital is really going to save the emergency department, as it seems to be the goal of this. I noticed earlier. A minister pointed out that this change in funding should increase transparency, but I wondered how it will strengthen emergency departments if that is really the goal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u19	A respectable president. As I said earlier, there are many things to look at and consider better. I even said... the role of government and how it is organized would need to be sharpened. But I'm going to say that I support the government's higher objective, and what's stated in the government Treaty, better looking after the role and strengthening the hospital as our local hospital. That's what I think matters so much and that we -- not just come out of Covid, but that we see how important it is for us to have the national hospital. This does not change the fact that we also have to face up to the fact that there is something wrong with business. We need to see how we can use both the funds more fully and the professional work more fully. It's where I see an opportunity for the administration, that it can just strengthen the hospital's managers better, both professionally and businessly as well. It goes together. A good business environment supports professional and vice versa. With a new management model, I know that there are more hospitals in the North countries, if specifically considered, who are well advanced in their introduction to new management models to meet new challenges in the changing world, where technology is rapidly spreading. Some procedures have to be changed in the hospital. I think it's an opportunity. While certain work lies ahead for the welfare committee, we must also not forget what I mentioned only at the outset, that after five years, when we have the new hospital, we see the specific combination of the new hospital, the department, and hopefully the emergency department as well as the difficult work there today. [[The president calls.]] They need to be temporarily solved now. We need to do all we can to meet the challenge. But in the long run, I see a brighter time in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u20	Mr. President. Yeah, I agree with what. A senator's goal in the government is that the role of the Land Hospital will be strengthened by the most important health centre in the country and that special emphasis will be put on following the construction of intensive care and emergency care. What I am perhaps more than simply to comment on is that I just don't feel that there's any logical support for the precise procedure that will result in that goal being met. There is much talk of improving business and other activities, but there is no evidence to support the fulfillment of this precise purpose by order of this government. It is not said that people who will be appointed need knowledge to achieve these goals. Rather, they are only referred to as a change in a person's ability to make a success of things that may be a great and possibly a part of it. I just find it a little strange to read a report claiming to have an informed goal, but it is not a matter of reasoning on how this operation should meet this objective. I may just have some teacher wondering about it. Where it is. In this context, I would like to introduce it to a member of the body. I would have thought that if we had to get more staff involved in this kind of control, but smaller because the goal is to fix the situation at the emergency room, which we know has been very bad for a long time and was bad for a pandemic, then the staff must be exactly what they could do to improve the situation. I wondered if it just needs to strengthen the living staff and give them a greater voice in a government like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u21	A respectable president. I certainly believe that there must be a careful consideration of the way in which a staff should be placed and that the committee must look closely at what is best for the hospital, both business and professional. I believe these two things go together, good business, good professional work. This supports each other. I'm sure it's a matter of time before it's handled very well with employees, their responsibilities and roles within a new government. It must be, as I could before, that sharpening it much better. Then you just have to be honest with yourself. Either they want to have the staff as an audience officer, and then they're just afraid to say it all the way, or to go the other way, which I think we should take a very good look at, giving them a clear responsibility within the government. I also believe that it is important what I said before, that we will be at the same time - others appointed to the board, we cannot rule out different abilities and abilities. We're not supposed to squeeze this so that there'll be all homologous people on the board. I think we're going to have to keep it open to promote both the trade and the professional support of the government. Only for stated goals: Yes, it may be possible for them to be sharpened, but I also think, of what we're achieving, nothing unusual to the government at any time, after seeing a certain and ongoing problem at the Land Hospital, trying to think things over again. Are they being rethinked? Not necessarily because some part of the government is being returned to the time when the government was laid down. When the government was laid down, did it take time, 2006 or 2007, to improve the hospital's activities? Not necessarily. I think if we go back, we'll have to say, "Don't just go the same old way, but tell us so much more clearly what the responsibility of a new government is. " [[The president calls.]] I believe that the responsibility of a new government will definitely be considered, as it were. To hire a new manager, to be responsible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u22	President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I wanted to continue with the ball that had been left behind just now. It was in the context of professional democracy, that workers are part of corporate management. In general, since professional democracy has been practiced, it has been found to increase transparency, reducing corruption. It also increases production and causes better breathing and health among employees. Hv. A senator mentioned that if workers are part of a government, it could mean that they also hold responsibility for what the government decides, which could be wrong. But I wonder, " Is it really more likely that participation in workers will lead to better decisions, and therefore it does not have to take responsibility because of bad decisions? ' I just wanted to hear a little bit of what we're doing. A senator finds these aspects of a professional democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u23	A respectable president. I think it's a little bit interesting and interesting to approach. Senator. I look at the fact that I am not always responsible because of my negative attitude. Taking responsibility and responsibility is also responsible for improving progress and development, better policy, better management, more professionalism. It is also responsible. We may be a little caught up in it, politicians, that we're always being pointed out and saying, "You have to be responsible, and it's just this negative thing that's always around. But when things are well done, it is also true. I believe that with the sharp and clear role of all the executives in this, whether it is the employee or the other executives, it will lead to professional and more professional management in the field of management and the professional we need within the administration to keep the hospital running. So I have faith that by being clearly identified as an employee within the board, either way, it will be for the better. But I find this democracy fascinating. I think there's something we're supposed to look at more, in modern times, we're supposed to connect, and we're more likely to trust the connection between employers and employees when it comes to this. I would have, for example. make a great improvement if the government had gone into it, because they're doing green books on the rest and this, to come e.g. with a green book on good governance in public institutions, just as the European Union of industry and others have published advice on the good management practices of an enterprise. [[The president calls.]] And just now, it's just that a lot of protocols are being put into all kinds of corporate governances, and I would have thought that it would also be a good foundation for the state to bring it before we go to the exact conclusion of all the institutions of state. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u24	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to know that in some of the Northern countries and in some countries the law is that every company with over a certain number of employees has to have a representative of the staff in charge. Perhaps we can learn something from it and discuss, for example. for the labour service minister to do that. But there's been a little slack in that case. says: In the management of individuals with knowledge of business and planning, in medical and scientific studies, and in the educational and public administration procedures and in the administration of administrative procedures. I'm just hoping that this isn't where all the executives are expected to have all this knowledge. I'm sure there's only one or two progressives with it. At least I have experience with this in the governments I have sat on and in the organizations I've worked with that in the board, people with different knowledge are selected, depending on their needs. That's how you could, for example. Imagine that now while a new hospital is still being built, there will be some who have ever built something, built a hospital somewhere, or who are already in need of emergency medical care, someone in a government with that knowledge. My question is, is it perhaps too limited a list because it looks like one person has to have it all together? Rather, we should say that there should be one person with a knowledge of business, one with this knowledge, another with another. What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u25	A respectable president. This is exactly what I may have been ill enough to try to point out. I don't think it's possible to have conditions in the law, so we're limited to a very small group, really a limited group. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator when he said that there are different needs of knowledge each time a little depending on the subject. Today, there are two subjects that were only three or two years ago before Covid. After five years, this will be different too because we will have a new hospital, which requires a different approach. This is one of the tasks ahead of you. The welfare committee, to sort out anything we want. We want people with broad appeals within government, professional, broad, strong appeals to how we want to build a powerful national hospital and to be successful in business, but also business. This has to go together. There is no shame in talking about taking good care of money when discussing the welfare system or the educational system, as well as a professional approach. It goes together. I just want to stress that I believe that professional and practical management of the Land Hospital would be a measure of success. But it has to be won much better than it's put forward now, and I know that both ministers and others in this room have ambition to make the case, so that's what to do, i.e. make a good hospital even better and stronger for the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to go to a very specific aspect of this matter. I don't think it's just an urgent matter to command the hospital, but it's time to establish an internal review at the Land Hospital. Then I'm talking about measures to promote economic efficiency, support financial security, reliable information, and just generally that the objectives of the operation are met and the laws and regulations apply. Now the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures has made a comment that no internal accountant is in the hospital. Of course, this is the largest workplace in the country, with a peak of 6,000 employees. Each year the government's budget for Hospitals is in the range of 8,990 billion. A number of procedures are huge. Official financial law, passed in 2015, made significant changes in the rules for government accounts and the same. The legal obligation of the Member States to conduct internal and internal reviews. This is 65 st. the law on government finance, and it reads: The Member State official of Parts A1 and A2, or the case, is responsible for the implementation of internal surveillance. Internal Affairs includes the regular actions and measures made by the partner to promote economic efficiency, financial security, information reliable, and in general that the aims of the operation will be met and followed by law and order. Interim reviews shall be performed in each Member State in [A1 and A2 segments] 1) based on the Regulation established by the Minister, cr. 67. , and in accordance with international standards and guidelines for internal review published by the international internal accountant's organisation. Internal review includes systematic, independent and objective assessments of risk management activity, monitoring and management practices of the concerned person. The head of the internal review shall have expertise in the field of internal review. That's the 65th story. There is also a special Regulation warrant for internal review in 66 st. Today, although more than six years have passed since government financial laws were passed, financial ministers have not yet issued such regulations. So there is really no Regulation and no consistent rules on how internal review should be conducted in states. This is a little interesting because every time we're here at the political and media point to underdevelopment, there's always some way that it just needs to make better use of the money than there is no way to recommend this directive to ensure that internal review can be carried out in a consistent way by state officials. It's a real pain in the ass, and it needs to be straightened out. I would be normal now, as the bill for the administration of a national hospital, to include internal reviews at the National Hospital, even by the order of both a review committee and an internal accountant's order, to promote the ongoing and systematic and independent monitoring of the Agency's activities. It is not only our obligation to make sure that health care is well - funded but also that the money provided for the ministry is most useful to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u27	A respectable president. I thought I was coming back, but okay. I would like to make a second talk to review certain points that did not have time to mention in the previous talk. I think the history of the Land Hospital, under health care law, is very important. The report states that with law No. 97/1990 was appointed as a board of directors for the four - year hospital. The role of the Directorates of Development and Management Plans for Hospitals, Their individual organizational arrangements, etc. Then, in 2007, a advisory committee appointed nine men to four years of age and was designed to be director and manager for counselling in the services and management of the hospital. Two years ago, in 2020, health - care laws were changed. Then the provision of counseling committees was removed, as well as the provision of medical advice and nursing advice. Then comes the so - called professional advice made by the director of the medical facility. The head of the health care facility should seek advice on important decisions relating to health care and health care professionals. And now we have a bill underneath our hands. We're talking 32 years of history, 1990 Commission, 2007 Advisor Committee, 2020 Precinct, and now it's time to establish control. As shown in the bill, a return to the arrangement under which the above changes were made is in some way under way. I suppose we're going back to the advisory committee or board of directors. In other words, we've got a full circle. I would have thought that there might be good reason to pick up the law from 1990, let it go, but another way is gone. The new law is now to be approved, and it is evidently being tried to increase the level of professional knowledge. However, by having this committee for advice, the writing process is increasing and the pressure in the decision-making process, which is not clear enough in the bill. I also don't think that it's working well enough on such matters as this. that the workers don't have a vote. It has been mentioned in speeches here, and I take my heart to what has been observed, that employees must come about as well. Where is the greatest knowledge of land management? Yes, she's with the staff. There, the knowledge is and really should increase the value of workers even more. That would turn out to be very successful. If knowledge of land hospital management is gained, it is best to pick it up from the hospital itself and the staff there. Now I am a medical professional - I only know it in my family, and I am an old medical student myself, both at home and in Denmark. Icelandic doctors study at home and then go to the United States or to Europe for special studies and come back. Other nations do not have such manna, doctors that come from these areas. I don't think the bill is made well enough to require a change. I think we should let the current law stand and test that arrangement. It is not necessarily an attempt to fit into a box in order to fulfill some of the laws of the government. Rather, it is to promote the hospital with increasing financial resources. It's also about getting qualified executives, that it needs to concentrate, that's what's important. We can have all the systems of the world, which are essential for individual rulers. I believe the model we have is comparable to the Danish model. I don't think it's well enough to think of going to Sweden and croa ideas from there that are up to a certain extent prepared for home. I think we should think about it even better before we leave, to increase our knowledge in this way. This will not change anything about future land management because it is funded. We need to find a capable director and a qualified leader in the hospital. There will be no change in obtaining qualified directors, it will not change the daily hospital business.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u28	A respectable president. I'm glad this bill has come to pass. I think it's very good. I've been amazed that an institution that takes to heart the most of the government funds has not had control of its operations for years. We're a lot of people who've been calling after this for years. The hospital director's responsibility is great, and it must be a strength for the director to have his powerful control. So I want to say again that the bill is a positive step in the management of the hospital. However, it is so that in the bill there are some things that I would stop for and would like to see changes in. I count at least We're right to address it. I'd like to mention a few things I think worth stopping at. First, there is the need for a minister to appoint both board and director. In the world in which I have lived, it has been normal for one to control and drive a director. According to the bill, the government does not seem to have any authority to the director of the hospital. That's pathetic. I realize the government arrangement can be both. I also realize that every time the political emphasis on the government must be realized. It would be difficult if the health minister had no access to the director's appointment. At the very least, I'd like to see that the government is the advisory minister in charge of the executive's order, that control the authority, and thereby have some access to the manager's appointment. In addition, in the bill it is unusual that the representatives of the management staff do not have a vote, as we have seen here many times. It must be clear that either the representatives of the workers are qualified members of the administration by vote or hearing agents with proposals and free speech at meetings. In addition, the interpretation of how a representative of the staff will be selected into the management board is totally lacking. Will ministers order them, or will employees be able to choose their representatives, and in what ways? I also have to assume that I find that there are some contradictions in the bill on information giving to a minister. The bill says that the manager is responsible for business spending, that income is in accordance with budgets, and that funds are used effectively. So shall the chairman of the board regularly inform the Minister of the management, situation and success, as well as major business abnormalities, whether business or professional. In other words, I feel that there is a lack of better separating between the role and responsibility of the government and the administrator of the minister. I warn that unexplained practices can lead to chaos and worse results. It's better at home than it's time to go. People here have been talking about how skills, knowledge, and background are to take place in hospital management, that there are people with knowledge of business, planning, health care, scientific research, and government regulations. These requirements are not very unusual, but it should be noted that in many public institutions the requirements are not as marked as this one does. For example, consider the Society of Istavia, since there is no requirement above what is recommended in partitary laws. There is no requirement for flights, pilots, or any other education. The government's banking institutions, which are of great importance to our financial system of Iceland, require a high level of education as well as expertise in banking and finance, and that government education is the most diverse and reliable knowledge of good corporate governance. There is also a requirement for legislation, management and clean proof of good conduct. I have also often wondered if the president of Land Hospital is a doctor. Is that necessarily the most suitable education or the ability to treat the largest taxpayer in the state? A land hospital is a flagship of Icelandic health care. The hospital seems to have dealt with long - term problems - whether in business, housing, or human resources - for a long time. Last year, a minister of finance said that the land hospital's problems were multiple, not being solved by further financial contributions alone. One factor is to strengthen the management environment in the hospital. This bill is a factor in improving the management profile and I hope that in the discussion presented here, and when the case begins, we will be able to cut off the bait that we believe is on the bill and we will agree that there is good luck there for the Land hospital to sit in charge of the director and trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. She came on a very interesting point, e.g. In view of the fact that the government does not have any authority to the director and that it would be reasonable for counselling to be a consulting minister. So, of course, this with the employees' representatives, that they don't have a vote. If I know the truth, then there is. A senator of corporate experience, and I would like to ask her about it. The report shows that important, unusual measures in the activities of the Agency should be under control and that important measures are referred to in the partner law 68.g. It speaks of keeping records and handling funds. It is also called unusual measures that are very interesting. And what do they list? Yes, there is saving, stopping the implementation of certain measures, saving arrangements. Another example is that of closing divisions, an unusual decision; other savings. It also says that the director is still responsible for the management spending and the implementation of a living room in accordance with financial and financial resources. If an important decision is made in a management board or in charge of the Agency's budget, will the director and the board be responsible for it? I can't understand it any other than it would be a question and whether the government is responsible for the decision to close a department or director. Another thing -- and I know that in the corporate world it's pretty clear - that if there's a problem between directors and controls how to solve these problems? Does that not mean that a minister needs to intervene? We can get in so much trouble if we make only important decisions made by the corporate world. However, it seems that significant decisions on cost and management are taken both by the director and by the director.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator who has an answer to that question can agree. I believe he's agreed to the speculations I raised in my case here. I feel that there's some uncertainty in between. There's a lack of clarity in the middle. It has to be perfectly set, no matter what unit it is, whether it's in a company, with us at the council or anywhere, that there has to be a clear-cut operation. That's why I warn that when I read the bill, I feel that there's a certain contradiction between the manager's duties and the taskship of a government that then touches a minister. This may require a particular problem. That is why we have a wonderful opportunity to do well, to put our arms around the hospital, which I believe the nation is calling for us to do. This bill is about to improve the function. Therefore, let us just try hard to do that work. I am absolutely certain that the Minister is very much interested in doing so. Let's -- like we're doing here, we're talking here, we're throwing between us what our major problems are -- let's just keep it going. I certainly hope that in this work we will make good day's work that will be a great deal of money to the head of the hospital for his work so that the hospital can improve itself further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u31	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with comments presented in her speech as well as with other comments. It is of utmost importance in such planning that lightness is responsible for decision making. This is actually a key factor in the stratosphere or the organization of the Agency. We're talking national hospital. We are one of the richest communities in the world, and we have been busy running this national hospital in the past few years or decades. Endless reports of a problem, and now it is time to try to deal with the problem by changing the management. I'm afraid with these laws, we don't just run the hospital, we're gonna have to run it. There will be all kinds of problems and complications regarding hospital management. There may be rulers, humans with opinions about control, smaller things, and more things. It can become a problem for business, and at any point in a business situation, it can be boring too. I don't think this bill is working well enough. I don't think it's clear enough, and I believe it's a lot of money for us here at the Council to send a message to the community, by legislation on the hospital government, that there's a clear responsibility. It is based on the fact that we have the most qualified executives available to direct the hospital as to the director and also the management of the hospital. I even think we should look beyond the cliffs to get them directors. On a global or European scale, our national hospital is not big. We're only 3 60,000 people. The human resources to manage such a hospital are by no means unlimited. I know that everyone involved in business management - leadership in hospital management is extremely important. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator concludes whether she feels that significant changes can be made in this bill, that it is sufficient, and that it will not be submitted again. [[The president calls.]] I also don't think the report is satisfactory, I'll say so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator again for counter-sponsored. Yes, I believe that changes in this bill can be made during the Senate treatment that will improve, and I believe we are doing it here today. We're shooting between baits. I'd like to call this a certain lure, but of course, a small grain of sand can become a great heap in its time. Hv. A senator also spoke in his previous stand about major changes. Now that I have never been in a medical facility, I have never been in a hospital, and what may be a huge business change or a significant change in business may be for health care professionals. We hear frequently each year, at the beginning of summer each year, that departments are being closed for a summer cover. I believe for very many employees it has become a normal part of the job. Although we don't want to close divisions, it's a reality that people get off on vacation. Discouragement and responsibilities tell you why. A senator and I agree with that. It has to be. This is our national hospital. It has been in progress, and there is an ever greater role in the community because we are constantly moving more projects from other hospitals into the Land Hospital. I think it was a tragic development in recent years, that we were much more likely to strengthen the hospitals in the vicinity of the city, such as the Acdérai, at Keflavík, at Selephoss, and thus to clear up the land hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u33	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. The first discussion has often been beneficial and beneficial, but it has been unusually good at this time. I don't think there was one point in every speech that was held, which is not worth considering. It's not a long article here, addition to 8. par., which is 1st par. in the bill, where you try to draw out the key elements that need to be available for a government like the one you aim to establish. Of course, the goal is to support the hospital's professional business. The management board is designed to support the director and the hospital staff, that is the primary goal. The talks here made it very clear that this is not cut and cut. I can quite accept that, in the preparation of this bill, it is more complicated than I expected before it began. If we were talking about a global partner on a market, the work would have been much simpler and the models much clearer, that is, and it has been shown here, when it comes to responsibilities, responsibilities, and roles. I'm going to try to highlight what was presented in this discussion. First, I'd like to mention the responsibility and responsibility chain of director and management. Today, the responsibility of the director of Article 38 is laid down. the law on the rights and duties of government employees, which is a clear responsibility. Now, the one standing here has already appointed director to the hospital. However, this does not rule out a change in the bill and requires that a government be assigned to the director. Of course, there is a way to explain the right authority to the director, but it is true that the bill assumes that the director's responsibility remains constant and will be in accordance with responsibilities and responsibilities. I would also like to highlight what may not be mentioned in the discussion that in 36rd par. a law on public financial responsibilities holds the responsibility of a government if it is in the hands of government institutions, and this is in accordance with the laws that apply to that institution. The role of the hospital is vital to our health care. Seven. This large unit is designed to play a vital role. The future we look at in health care calls for very big decisions. Today, the law speaks of a second and third - degree ministry when it is spoken of. We know that this has developed to the point of extensive first - century service. So the task is, in fact, far more extensive than the law laid down in regard to the role. It is very important for the director to be in control of such a expedition. We're building a massive therapeutic core, an enormous addition just in square metres. We're putting our arms around the great staff that's there, 6,000 employees. There are not many business units in Iceland that have a size like that. I got it. I got it. The welfare committee to examine the responsibility of the director and the management board and that we try to draw it into the bill that a management case will arise and handle matters in accordance with 32. the law on government finances and reviews the annual schedule and schedule. We know what has been in the Council, and I don't talk about us who have worked at it. The budget board, when calling for information on business and financing, information on where the funds go, is that this is a very complex operation, as reported in a number of talks. So we need to consider the interaction between president, government, and minister. I've had a lot of internal surveillance, and I take my mind off them. Councilmen who've established it. It is a very extensive business, as we have seen, in one budget of over 90 billion per year. Of course, if we talk about practicality, efficiency, security, and transparency, we need to apply this surveillance in the 65th paragraph. the law on public finances, internal Affairs and internal reviews. We need this systematic, independent, objective assessment. It's necessary. There is also a need for control. I think there's a lot of money in it for managers to get a government to support setting this up. I thought it was very useful in the talks here. There was much discussion of democracy and membership and the fact that, as it is suggested in the bill, that there is an officer involved, as mentioned, i.e. that they don't have a vote. Or it may not be clear enough how to choose. Of course, there are some options. It can be called for by a professional advice set up by the last adjustment. I think that's a promising option, and I'm just saying, "What's up?" a welfare committee to look to that fact. There are professionals at the hospital, over 30. I think it's very important to have these two agents in charge. There are advantages and faults in it, if people work on the floor, having to vote with decisions. But the staff will always participate in the discussion and on the input, this professional input, which is so important in the management board. We can identify the staff at the hospital, sit in charge, and face the need to vote through difficult decisions or counters and then be supported by directors on the floor for the discussion of those decisions. There's a lot of pros and cons on this, and I'm telling you, I'm telling you. a welfare committee to look to that fact. Similarly, at the Carolina hospital in Sweden, workers are involved in this way, and user counsel is used in a similar way. Also, I take my heart to every word that has been said here in this regard. We go this way, and there is a user council like this in the Carolina hospital. We're looking there a little bit, it's just to be accepted here. It may be wise to consider whether the representatives of this user body should be in charge of the session. That thought came up during the discussion, and I think it's worth considering. I think all of this is a very good thing to do. The welfare committee. That is why I say, the discussion has been very good. The hospital's administration is not a new idea. We have done many things, as we have considered in the report and in a number of talks here. We have had this arrangement, but it was gone, as we have discussed today and when we began this discussion. In the end, the responsibility was not clear enough; more was needed to be explained and placed more on the head. That responsible relationship must be very clear. Now we may be going back to that time, but we may have some other goals in mind. High - quality decisions and major changes are ahead of us in health care if we are to be able to control the present challenges, e.g. In terms of design. The hospital is designed to educate our professional. I believe that by the office of the management director, the role of the hospital needs considerable attention because it is clear that the role and responsibility of a government will be very compatible with the health - care laws and the role of the hospital, as defined by the hospital. It is true that there are some other laws in this work to be controlled. The hospital, the director, the manager, and the management board will also be severely tested in terms of large decisions, e.g. Compatibility with other healthcare providers for the construction of nursing homes, for increased day-to-day selection and home-care. It is estimated that there will be 740 living in a new hospital, over 600 today. If we don't do something, within a few years, we'll need 1,200 beds. That picture doesn't work. This was shown in the discussion that it was not clear how such a government would work. Would I believe that the hospital's government would come into such big decisions and support those who work on the floor every day, professionally, and in complex activities? I have no doubt. This step is vital. A respectable president. I want to be here at the end of the day because of you. Councilmen for bringing out virtually everything they need to consider. The welfare committee. I encourage the committee to examine all the points presented in these discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the summary, which was very good, he made it really well to try to add all these points from today. I only have one question because he came in on that maybe it wouldn't be a scheme for a representative of employees to have a vote, a little as if they were being protected by not giving them vote rights, that it would be difficult for the representative to have a vote right. I put a specific question mark on it, and I think it should be discussed with the staff and their representatives, whether this is the correct conclusion or the correct conclusion, at least not to predetermine that there will be some problem for a representative of the workers to have the voting rights. I can't quite figure out how employees would experience this, whether it would be just a big deal, and maybe a real conflict that this agent of staff would get for having the voting rights. So I'd like to, before that conclusion is drawn that it's not good for employees to have a vote, to have that conversation with them, and to really put their pulse on this exactly by sitting down with the employees and realizing this directly with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u35	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir I was Baldursdóttir to explain, if I was inexplicably. First, I want to say that I wrote a new word in my mind, as a boy. A senator came in against what. paritaprevir Gísli RafnÓlafsson an interesting listener. I wondered, then, what kind of listening rush I am because I took note of this discussion about whether employees should have voting rights or not. What I wanted to say is that there are pros and cons, and I took it out as a judge. The role of the staff's representatives should be thought to have the voice of employees being heard in a discussion of important decisions so that concerned employees have a role in the discussion, much like the five there, that they are advocates for their decision, including managers, on the floor. I think there are absolute benefits and defects in having to vote with decision-making since there may be other viewpoints that they can come up to and they will always take part in that discussion. I don't think it's impossible, and I'll agree with it. A senator here says, of course we should call for their comments and opinions on how this is done. I think there's both. There's no different route here, as I said, and I'm going to Karolinska Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u36	A respectable president. Thank you so much for that answer. Yes, there are pros and cons. Of course, there are pros and cons, and no one is saying that this is something simple. But I'm glad to hear that we're being visited by our neighboring countries and what it's like there, and certainly it's important to look at them. But this isn't about us in this room, how we feel about it. I think we have to have this conversation with the employees, and there's no one to say anything about the voting rights but that he has a lot of responsibility. I'd just like to ask the employees and their deputies if they don't want the exact opportunity to take this responsibility, at least to talk to them before we decide something or to conclude within us how we feel about these matters. The workers themselves must simply have had the opportunity to have the last one to do this because I think it's a matter of respect for the staff and democracy. Even if it's going to be difficult and there's a conflict around a certain vote, it's still saying, "Your votes are important." It's just that it's such a big right to me. At any rate, let's not make a decision here and try to try to put it on the table. We're not the staff of the Land Hospital, anyway.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to reiterate what I said here that the members of the board will, of course, help and contribute to making decisions by participating in discussions at the board of directors. We're here to discuss whether or not they should have this vote. It is now the advantage of the church treatment and the field we know in committee work that we call for reviews and viewpoints, and I'm sure we'll both get the viewpoint. I tried to do that in the preparation of this bill and considered how it is being done in many places. I also heard it here in talks that in many places it is this way, not just in health care, that it is a tradition for the participation of employees in the context of employment democracy and then with a full voting rights. But I look forward to seeing the reviews that deal with this issue on the subject. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u38	A respectable president. There are many things that could be considered here, but I may better address certain aspects of a talk in the following article. But there is a number of factors involved in this bill that are worth commenting on. I'm gonna stick around for the first time, like what happened. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir used to do this before me, not allowing them to move in, produce, sell nicotine products and electric cigarettes that contain flavours that may appeal to children, such as candy and fruit flavors. This must be set in a Regulation for Minister for further implementation. How will this be carried out? Who does and how will determine the exact taste to appeal to children and what we will do, for example. with all kinds of alcohol? There are tomato shots and all kinds of drinks that are like that, but are they allowed to sell? For one thing, how are you going to go into all this definitional gym with a candy and fruit flavour and just a taste over a head? [[The president calls.]] What flavor is appealing to adults, and what taste does not appeal to adults but to young people? [[The president calls.]] Don't you think it's going a little further to allow Ministers to decide all of this in the Regulation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u39	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir - Sigmur Guðmundsson. We're here to argue with this controversial provision that has to limit certain flavors, candy and fruit flavors. This is based on studies that suggest that children and adolescents are more likely to be affected. We can, of course, wonder if there are other rules that limit the access of young people to these matters, and that is absolutely correct, as it were. One senator says that there is not a clear line in this, since other nations have taken the step all the way and have forbidden flavors altogether. That's the way it is. Of course, that is a worthwhile assignment for all of us. A health committee to discuss. In this context, because nicotine now affects the developing brain to 25 years of age, there are opinions about age. [[The president calls.]] So no, it's not simple. And I can agree with what. Senator, I've seen this line taken with the flavors. [[The president calls.]] What's a candy flavour, and what's not a candy flavour? We can reflect on gum, what appeals to youths and older ones? [[The president calls.]] It's worthy to look at it, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u40	A respectable president. Yeah, that's the very essence of what I'm trying to say. It can be extremely difficult to apply all these definition exercises and just put this into a Regulation, in which all transfers are absolutely uncertain. Because, in part, we're talking about the nicotine pads, I'm in here on the website of a company that's very intense on that market, and there's a way to pick it. You can choose fruit flavors, berries, and coffee flavors, enamels, mints, lemons, and anything you can do. So when you pick up the past where it stands tasteless, there are two dumps there, and there are hundreds of them in the other place. So it would be almost excommunicating nicotine pads as we know them today. This does not go against another objective, i.e. We know that there are some who use this rather than use more serious material, such as simply tobacco, cigarettes, and such?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not gonna stand here holy and say that it's not a difficult job to define what's goody and fruity. However, I am absolutely firm in regard to the primary objective of this bill and that key elements are necessary to take this step when it comes to the public health of children and teenagers and to have a rule of these potentially harmful products, as I think most of us know, extremely addictive, and cardiovascular. But I'm just gonna say this here, a respectable president, that this was a lot of talk or was a big talk about how tricky it is really to pull a line about what flavors appeal to young people and what flavors don't.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u42	A respectable president. Yes, I have to agree with others here who have spoken. I feel like I've gone too far on it. It is respectable to watch out for youths. I believe that when we look at the results of research and analysis, continuous research from them since 1991, we have achieved the alcohol and drug abuse of Icelandic youths, who had the highest levels of OECD, down to the lowest in OECD. And how did we do that? We did not do that with rules and regulations. We made it with preventive measures, I believe in them, and we can even see it. From the experience of us Icelanders. For more than 30 years, we have achieved alcohol and drug abuse with preventive measures. So I feel like I've been out of line here. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he have deep conviction for the matter? Does he really believe that he has both the members of the government and the entire council with him on his way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for this question. Yeah, yeah. Senator, I have deep conviction for the main elements of this bill, its primary objective to limit use. Can I agree with what? A senator's concern that the educational material of the guardians is also important? Yeah, I agree with what. A senator there. On the other hand, do I think that the principle we're making here is a good cover for sale and production and the ability to approach the product? Yes, it is necessary to have this rule. As a result, those who shop for the goods have been called. Those who are selling the product have called for an act of order, that there are rules about this, forever, about advertisements, about demonstrations. [[The president calls.]] It's all part of prevention, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u44	A respectable president. This is as clear as it might be, so the exact identity of the message in this bill cannot be clearly defined. I'm warning you if we're going to subjugate everything in the law in this regard. I believe that the preemptive route is stronger. Experience has shown that it has proved to be very effective. I would have much rather liked to see--and there may be just a different vision and a contrast to our approach, my and the minister,--that we were discussing criminal abuse and the bill that was to be presented now at this council and that this bill had been withdrawn so that we could discuss those issues as well. I hope it takes a very long time for the Senate committee who gets this case and that it won't take it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How was the matter settled from the government? Now the matter is on the agenda, and I'm asking if both members of the board are convinced to let it through, not just that, but whether there's more to it than that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Do I feel that there is a date limit to this product, as suggested in the bill, to children and adolescents? Yeah, that's what I think. I just think that's a big deal. I don't think it's normal for basic - school kids to walk into a store and buy nicotine. I just don't think it's normal. Do I think it's normal for a commercial and show order? Yes, I think that's normal too. Do I think it's normal that we're banning the use of these substances in elementary schools, in sports environments? Yes, I think that's normal too. We should do everything in our power to make it difficult for young people to approach this product in an easy way. Sadly, research tells us that a large percentage of young people are using this product. [[The president calls.]] You can look at it, and I'll tell you what it is. the welfare committee to consider what has been discussed with flavours, age limits, etc. [[The president calls.]] What Can Be Done? What is the course of wisdom?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u46	A respectable president. I think it's the best. Ministers have little to do with those who have come up here and asked questions the opinion that they do not want to ban nicotine pads to children. No one has claimed it in this room. This is normal, and in fact, the public health of children is by banning nicotine imports to them. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned whether those who have come up here and ask questions would not agree that nicotine products should be banned in elementary school. No one has said otherwise. On the other hand, this bill also prohibits nicotine use in high school, where adults are. [[Up front.]] - Other schools of education, there's other schools on the bill. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to answer whether he cannot see some kind of less sensitive means of achieving the same public health goals than forbids the consumption of adults on products less harmful than tobacco and cigarettes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Dagbjartur of Gunnar, son of Lúðvíksson. I don't think I've been doing anything in this conversation. I was simply stressing my opinion on the matter and answering whether I was firm in the matter as it is suggested. Yes, I am. I can only use this opportunity and repeat it. I think there's some misunderstanding that this is forbidden in college. If you read the whole law to the end, you're not. I can't help but encourage the council. the welfare committee to examine nuclear material, the main element of the bill; the age limit, the advertisement, the meaning in Icelandic, the main purpose of limiting the use of children and adolescents. It's the bill, like it's in my path. Of course, there are points to consider in the context of what is suggested in the bill and these controversial aspects of the flavors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are many other nations, and this is being considered in a report that has just had to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u48	A respectable president. I'd like to answer the ultimate statement. Minister because in the bill we have discussed here, other schools of education are discussed and in 2 g. The law about college says: "A university is an independent education institution. " At least this bill needs to be changed considerably to achieve the actual will of a minister is not him. However, the evidence for the ban on smoking in public areas is the natural damage that it can cause third person, an external person, with indirect smoking, and the damage with nicotine pads is over. But this fruit flavor prohibition makes me wonder: Is there anything other than a public health policy that is behind this bill? Could it be that there is a threat to the competitive status of the commercial agricultural product, which is not fruit - flavoured or anything similar to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u49	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. I'll start with the latter part of it. I think I can say I'm not. The warning is clearly marked that it is harmful, and we add a considerable amount of tobacco, and it is quite different from what it is today. However, I have always argued that when we banned a foreign ore specifically produced it caused a significant increase in the same use of that product, without fully investigating that it was one of the decisions that have led to a serious change in consumption. But only because of the prohibition at the university, it says here in 12. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The use of nicotine products is prohibited in schools, elementary schools, high schools, and other educational institutions as well as in other households designed for day care and social, sports and leisure activities of children and young people. [[The president calls.]] College isn't... [[For example, consider: An independent education institution.]] I'm sure it's a problem. A well - being committee will consider the wording in this article, and I thank you very much. A senator for pointing out that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u50	Madam President. Thank you. Perhaps it is in the tray stream to ascend here with a special license. Secretary of health. I've marked exactly the same thing as all those who've already expressed themselves. Everyone who came before me is, in effect, talking about the same thing. I know it's the highest. Secretary of health is doing well. The objective is noble, but the way is crazy. To forbid me, who used a lacquer pillow to stop smoking after he tried Icelandic neto pie, to buy it for the protection of children, to be spoken of in a mild way. But I understand very well the idea, the desire and desire for better public health and better status and better health of children. This is just not the way. I'm like one of the council members who spoke before me, Hildur Sverrisdóttir, if I remember correctly: is Baileys next? If the purpose is to go the flavor route to improve the people's health, where will it end? A health minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorgrímur's Sigmundsson for the counter-sponsored. I like to hear what you're driving at. Councilmen here say this is a noble goal. All I can hear is that everyone agrees on the core that is in the objectives of the bill, both in terms of the system's handling of this product and its monitoring, that it is okay and is being sold what is said to be sold, that there will be Icelandic markings on a package that tells us about the seriousness of the product, that the amount of nicotine is in your lips, and we are fully aware of it. It's a great story. A senator comes in to the fact that this product has indeed used many to avoid using tobacco in another context. It has also been discussed whether this should be under tobacco laws or actually drugs. It may be later, but this route was carried by electric smokes and refills. I also hear that this is the most controversial point in this process. It is very difficult to define flavors. If we're going to allow different types of flavor, I think it's right, and say it, a respectable President, to it. The welfare committee considered this in relation to the age limit being set because if it persists, it will, of course, take on the older ones. [[The president calls.]] That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u52	Madam President. I'm not going to put up with this discussion any more with the Minister with any further disk vision in terms of this other than to encourage him and encourage him. A medical committee to make a special examination of this requirement. I'm not sure this is the way. In fact, I believe that this is not the way. On the other hand, as the Minister wishes to succeed with the bill, we are to forbid the sale of these materials to children. There, salesmen play a key role. Parents, teachers, sports coaches, and all who cooperate with children play a vital role. But I repeat, I encourage Ministers to find another way to set goals, for the goal is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I like to hear the agreement here at the General Assembly on the Public Health of Children and Youths. I think it's very important that we form this bill with that noble objective. These are difficult and harmful subjects. This has been the case in other countries because if children are exposed to it, this can cause toxic effects, putting them on child-locks. There are some of the subjects involved. In Finland all flavors have been banned from electric cigarettes and have been banned from the introduction of products. However, in some neighboring countries, there is a great limit to the sales and production of electronic products that contain flavors. All nations are dealing with this. [[The president calls.]] I just agree that this may be what causes the most issues in this and the problems and how quickly. A welfare committee, like a whale. A senator did, in order to examine this closely in the context of other rules being set so that we do not give up our primary goal in the public health of young people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u54	Madam President. Thank you very much. Health Minister for the bill, and I know it's the highest. A health minister only wants to benefit from this. Of course, it is public health to make sure that people stop smoking. Happily, things have changed, not just in recent decades, but even in recent years. In many respects, the goal of the bill is good, but the methodology, as it has been suggested, may not be entirely well - thought - out, even scientificly supported. The reason we've been fighting smoking for tens of years is because tobacco causes cancer. It is not the nicotine that causes cancer, all of which are the other substances. On the great science site, you can read about nicotine. It says that nicotine is just one of the many substances found in tobacco; it is addictive, but it is much less harmful than other substances found there. On the other hand, those who use tobacco must consume drugs with nicotine, whether they like it or not. In other words, nicotine was used to make us smoke. The effects of nicotine have been carefully examined. It has a stimulating effect on the body. And it can be fatal if you take up the equivalent of 50 mg of it. Just to give you an idea, it's about 50 cigarettes, and then it can be fatal. The Danish health authorities were required to answer the scientific and research involved in the harmful use of nicotine, which removed sentences from their websites. There's a lot of good stuff in the bill, but I think it's pretty clear that the most popular article of the day on the bill is b-duty 9. g., for now, by permission of the President: It imports, manufactures, and sells nicotine products, electrical cigarettes, and refills for electric cigarettes that contain flavors that may appeal to children, such as candy and fruit flavors. The secretary must set up a Regulation on the details of this requirement. I thought it was a bit interesting to look up the report on Article 9. especially, but it says: ▪ Research shows that flavors, especially candy and fruit flavors, play a major role in the popularity of electric cigarettes among young and young people, and argue that the same is true of the popularity of nicotine pads among young people. Reason - What Evidence? There are no arguments listed in the report. There are no studies showing that children are looking for nicotine pads but are convinced that this has made it more popular for children to use electric cigarettes. Yes, it's no wonder that children may have been more popular when they had a taste of electronic cigarettes, no one is interested in anything that has no taste. That may have been that way when I was a teenager, and others were. The members of the older generation, we members of the council, were the only ones that were offered no wine at all. Today, when they try alcohol, they don't get vodka in soda, they try something that tastes nice. The same as we do about most of the food and most other things. We want to taste things, especially if they're bad. I drink, for example. not beer because I don't like it. Nobody's made a candy beer, so I know, to encourage me to drink it. It is flavorful, but we need to take care of our public health as well. The point is, during the past year, as the nicotine pads have become more popular, electric cigarettes have become much less popular. Just as when the generators stopped, a lot of people stopped smoking. I decided to look around here at the High Council and see how many dogs I had. Congress officials are smoking. Not very many, they're one most of the oldest generation. But how many people in this room use nicotine pads? Well, I'd love to ask you a question about it. I just don't know how to ask all the senators. But I can absolutely say it's well over half here. You see, it's like that. A senator said earlier that this has helped people stop smoking. The nicotine pads, based on statistics from Norway and Sweden, do not lead to the use of electric cigarettes or to smoke at the contrary but to nicotine pads. It has been discussed here and again what flavors children would like to taste. Candy taste, lacquer flavour like a porpoise. A senator mentioned earlier - what about mint, one of the popular flavors of the general councilman here at the high Council, is to ban it? Personally, I like getting a mint out to rum and making some mojito cocktail. No, it's a coin, it could be dangerous. This is a good question: Where should we draw the line when it comes to the taste? And I think if we go on banning certain brands, it will simply lead to that, exactly as it happened with the nose tray that was brought in from abroad, and could not be sold here, it just became a black marketbrake out of it, and people were buying it and importing it and smuggling it. We'd be talking about smuggling in a product that would be legal unless it wasn't something that was the highest. A health minister, not necessarily the one sitting here today, but only the one in that office felt suitable for children. We need to start thinking about where we draw the line. What is a good public - health verse of overindulging thinking? There are many factors that put our health system under stress much more than the use of nicotine pads, e.g. use sugar products. Are we going to ban all sugar products because they're bad? Or should we ban tea with fruit flavor because it has caffeine in it, too, which is addictive? I'm not even gonna go into the flavors of energy drinks. But I looked up the government web of Alcohol and tobacco that has 207 brands of alcohol that have fruit flavors - are we going to ban them? I'll agree with it as fast as I can. The above: When it comes to prevention, it is far more important to place funds in education, to expand access as is done in many other articles of this bill, and also to tighten the gaps in which this product can be advertised. Every day we see advertisements from importers and sales agents because they not necessarily advertise the product themselves but where they are from or where the camp is. A respectable president. I understand the meaning behind a lot of this bill. There's a lot of good in it, so don't get me wrong. Secretary of health. But we need to think about nicotine pads, other nicotine products, nicotine gum, and other things that harm - reducing devices against smoking, against tobacco addictions, instead of forethought that some species can be banned, just because we don't feel that they are appropriate. That would be, for example. It's bad if we don't test new flavors of ice cream every year because they were forbidden. [[What are you suggesting?]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm starting to think maybe it's time to quit. I just hope that's all. The welfare committee runs under the highest deck. Ministers and adapt the articles in here that simply go too far and that we continue to enjoy different products with the various types of flavors found.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gistling Rafn for his speech as well as the highest. Minister of health for the tour earlier. It is sometimes spoken as if by some nations, so it is all forbidden; others prefer to have anything not directly forbidden. We are trying to follow some path that we as a nation make of ourselves. It's called tricks, and here I think a hook may need to come. I agree that we shouldn't be bringing up the pros here if it's possible. Similarly, we are not supposed to crowd out older ones so that they cannot have fruit beer or fruit soda or whatever they are now. I think the highest. A minister will not be accused of not listening. He sits here listening and being accepted, and I think we should be grateful that he will take home in the Ministry what has been said and pointed out, as well as that the welfare committee will correct this. I propose to ask why. Rafn It's possible to put a mixture of strong preventive and more intensive awareness into the damage. I am pointing to the tremendous success we had in sticking to smoking. Icelanders were heavy smokers of all ages until a few years ago. The fine writer and fighter, Þorgrímur Þráinsson, led here for years very aggressive struggles. He even pointed. ... soit'dbediscreet. Young people don't want to practice things that seem embarrassing. He spoke of the condition of the blood vessels during smoking, and the stroke of smoking surely killed dicks. [[The president calls.]] So I think the complex of awareness and this bill is the course to go on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I think it's exactly the thing, that we're supposed to mix good prophylaxis and education together and that there's a much more effective way to stop things like this than there's ever a rule and no rules. It's simply that when something is banned, it becomes desirable, and I think that many parents or others have, for example. For under 20 years of age, alcohol was purchased because it was forbidden, and people became addicted to alcohol because it was forbidden. It has also been shown that since things are not forbidden, their consumption is often reduced. We did good things with tobacco. No doubt we are doing good things with many other things. Let's be careful not to go into custody and ban, ban, ban, as they do in some countries. Instead, let us look for ways to speak with our children, to give them the right advice, the right examples, rather than fine them for doing things that cannot be done or that cannot be bought.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. You should point the top. A health minister should continue to follow through on this matter. We've agreed, Pirates and the people's party, in your absence, in a conversation that, in a conversation, there's still summer's an illusion and clumsiness of this bill, to do it so that we can accept it here in this hall, to reduce custody, but to give the main purpose, i.e. to control the addiction of children, to continue with a more powerful conscious awakening that appeals to young people, and to point out that the consumption of such drugs is both hazardous to health and perhaps not particularly cool, is quite clever. The people most and most famous for treading tobacco under their upper lip, which I think was Sweden - I think the Icelanders soon realized, though many people were accustomed to it, that it was not a beauty in the face of anyone to tread any bags under their lips. You can do very clever TV commercials that appeal to young people of all ages and help to cope with this consumption. I'm kind of afraid to see these gooeys springing up all over town. There's obviously some scarf that has blossomed. In this context, I think that following these things, we should also take up a discussion on the legalization of the substances that are in much distribution. We have the most dangerous drug sold in the liquor store, and anything forbidden works, as noted, more exciting. [[The president calls.]] How can we control these things so that the public health of the Icelanders will not be exposed to further danger? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u58	Madam President. It is our natural function here at the General Assembly to take the bills from the Commission and adjust them so that we can be at peace with them. It would be good if we didn't always have to be fixing a lot of them. But unfortunately, that happens, and I think this particular bill has certain factors to do better. I'm counting on it. That's what the welfare committee does. Otherwise, we'll just talk even more about the 2nd. ... aboutthis. Then we could, for example. start listing these 207 types and the content of that alcohol in the NTVR if we need to delay it further. I hope that this will not be necessary but will listen to the welfare committee and the Ministry to the evidence presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u59	(Precise in: A minister is listening.)
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u60	The minister listens, and I trust the minister will continue to listen. It needs to be fixed not only as well as what was pointed out at the top of the question. Ministers before, the definition of where to sell, that these are schools, that these are not being banned in colleges where people who have the age and should be able to buy. At least I don't know a lot of college students under 18 years old. There may be some individuals, but not many. I hope we can fix this, and I trust the council will work together on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u61	A respectable president. There are certain points I have to enter with the 1st discussion on the top bill. Secretary of health. In view of the fact that the bill is intended to increase the safety of users on nicotine products and, in particular, look to children in view of this, other basic questions about the intervention of the State of adult consumption are not satisfied. The bill is a sign that the goods are not available to others, such as tobacco products. In recent years, tobacco abuse has been greatly reduced, including drug abuse. Thanks to the fine results of the variety of nicotine products that do not contain tobacco. A paper with the bill claims that these new rules will not destroy the results that have been achieved and that, by permission of the president, they will not be destroyed. ▪ The power of prevention and vandalism of tobacco smoking, and the awakening of people to the harmful practices of tobacco have no less led people to decide to quit smoking tobacco. Would it not, then, be normal, before any of the burdensome rules are taken, to put up a test for proper prophylaxis in behalf of children and young people before we allow these indiscriminate preconceivities to intervene in the products of adults? I find this an inexpensive way to solve the problems of children on nicotine products. The bill then commands bans on delivery and sale for individuals under 18 years of age. Here in this room, no one has made a note of this. Would it not be likely that if this were the only goal of the bill, there would be a lively discussion? No, the bill goes so far beyond that. The self - determination right of adults is avoided, and the only answer we have received is the noble goal of banning sales for young people. Let us be clear before the fact that my superiors are not about opposition to the above - mentioned prohibitions but about how the freedom of adults and the CDC is torn down. Besides, it is only perfectly normal and important that at the council, we have the conversation over how much the State should interfere with citizens and their consumption of different products. When will we discuss this and answer questions about the role of the Kingdom in the use of the common people? For example, the market bill will include nicotine pads under the current battery layers of electric cigarettes, such as the commercial ban and the sales ban. This ban on nicotine products announced on the bill will be impossible to enforce except in local media. Manufacturers and sellers of nicotine can find other ways to market their products, such as those on community media, foreign media, or loaded groundwaters. So such a prohibition would always be pointless and only a fall in order to reduce the commercial productions of the Icelandic media, which have already come true. Rather, we should aim to eliminate alcohol and tobacco advertisements because they no longer serve their purpose, since Icelanders are exposed to their advertising on foreign media and particularly on community media. Now on the subject. According to the bill, import, manufacture, and sell nicotine products and electric fags that contain flavors that may appeal to children such as candy and fruit flavors will be prohibited. There is no further workout on what may be involved, and such assessments depend on mental measurement that is not clear. However, the bill clearly includes the ban on delivery and sale of nicotine products to individuals under 18 years of age and the prohibition on candy and fruit flavors, as I said earlier, would have an impact on and limit the range of choices available to adults. Let's just stay here. Why can people who have reached legal age not choose tasty products? Alcohol and soda are many people with good fruit flavor, and no one can think of banning them. A quick bite is a common cause of obesity, a major health problem, but it is tasty. The idea of banning hamburgers, fries, or pizzas comes to mind. Such products are also marketed for children, directly. A respectable president. Aren't we getting too far into custody here? Besides, I feel that it is necessary to distinguish between nicotine swabs and e.g. The health of adults, cigarettes, and cigars that are unforeseeable to the health of others other than those who consume them. If children are to partake of such products, alternative options are to be taken rather than to interfere with the taste of the product. A key element is the prevention and active role of home and school.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u62	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Berglind Guðmundsdóttir for a very good speech and needs speech. Since she spoke of the harmful effects of other things, sweeter ones, it may be possible for her to dig a little deeper into what is harmful to sugar. It can cause metabolic disorders in the body, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and for as long as it can be counted, significantly affect lifestyle diseases, which are a huge problem that we are faced with exacerbation at a time point. That's why I'd like to create a little discussion about it. If you were to ban sugar with a fruit flavour, how would you be discussing this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u63	A respectable president. I thank the senator for a pleasant question about what might become a very interesting discussion. We are familiar with discussions about various ways in this case, sugar taxes, and such things that I'm just not following at all. This is all doing the same thing, i.e. ... tomovedoutthesubject's freedom. As a result, it was not a journey I would like to take. Of course, it is a noble goal to care for the public health of the entire nation and to engage in some kind of battle against sugar intake, but I think it is the very way, not the prohibition, but the prevention work. I always think it should be our guide when we're dealing with new problems, modern problems, that we need to be better informed. We need to have the conversation with our children and young ones and ask: " Do we want this to be a future problem? Will we intervene sooner? Yeah, it's more fun to talk about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir I Ósk Guðmundsdóttir for a good answer. There she came to the core of the issue of prevention, that we can achieve the best results. Ministers hope to achieve by means of their bill with a stronger and better prophylaxis. Whether it is sugar, alcohol, tobacco, or anything else, we can reduce the consumption of harmful material in young people's homes and schools. That is why I would also like to wonder about what makes tobacco with fruit taste so much worse than alcohol with fruit flavor. Does nicotine have fruit flavor worse than alcohol with fruit flavours? Why is there particular reason to forbid it and not piña colada?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much for the second answer. I'm just saying with you that once we take one step and move the line of defense a little further, it's shorter to the next one. So, of course, we have to be on guard for this, just as we are doing here in this room. It's also interesting to think that we'll start there. Why, then, should we not drink alcoholic beverages, and why should we avoid eating fast food and all of this? That's why it's very important that we have this conversation today and we review this, that we agree that prevention is the way, and that the goal of the bill, which is to protect children and adolescents, is good, but the paths are crazy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u66	President. Thank you. A senator for his enthusiasm, and I sure hope we don't start banning chocolates with raisins. Here's a bill designed to ensure public health. This is about electric cigarettes and nicotine pads. But my question is, if we can make rules around where and how to sell nicotine pads and generators, don't we just have some nice chance where and how to sell alcohol? There is no one here who suggests that these products are sold only by the State's Alcohol and tobacco trade. That might have been an excellent preemptive because no one under 18 wants to be seen inside that store. But I ask: We don't have to give up other things, what should we call them, forethought, when it comes to other substances, such as. alcohol, and take advantage of the fact that here, the Ministry of Health has created excellent guidelines on how to store and use materials to make a bill for the sale of alcohol and set it free. I wanted to know what it was. A senator would think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u67	Mr. President. Yeah, we're talking now. It is good to feel a great deal of support for the large drinking business. It's hidden in many places. It's the same with the nicotine business as with the drinking. If we were to invent it today, would we go along the way that we are going today with alcohol? I think it's a good question that we should ask ourselves more often when we're putting rules around things and consumer products, whether the rules that are relevant today fit the society in which we live right now. Like with the liquor store. It's interesting to think about it in the context of this special bill. We have bills available at the council that are a step in the right direction. I'd always like to go further, but it's like the line of defense we talked about earlier, that you take one step, and then you go further. It's the same with these walls we're trying to break down. We may just have to get one stone out so that we can take all the others too. I'm a little excited about the way we're on it, and I find much more support in the community that we just open more and let adults decide for themselves what they want to do, what products they want to eat and what products they want to buy. I'm saying it's really fun to think about. No, no one is making a recommendation that the state should sell nicotine pads.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u68	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The question is, when we are about to change who can buy alcohol where we think about why the age limit is two years higher than the legal age. Since we've started talking about options for buying what we want where we want them, it's interesting to remember that last night's peak drew. Healthcare Ministers return to basic management of drug and addictive doses at the same time as e.g. Several States in the United States have been putting exactly this kind of law around how to ensure the safety of not selling drugs to children. What do you think? A senator to take the next step after his drink?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer and good thought. When I saw that, I felt disappointed myself. A health minister had restored his bill. It's clearly health issues that I think are worthy of our discussions at the council and that I would have liked to see the CDC of that subject. I'm also starting to think that he's trying to better define the dosages and things I'm not going to talk about here. Of course, as a young politician, a liberal politician, I would like to go further. That's why I gave this talk about this particular bill today because it's going too far and we're going way too far. As a result, I feel that we are going the wrong way. We are not going to the point of being liberal and free and tolerance that I think should be the goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u70	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir I'm going to Ósk Guðmundsdóttir for a wonderful speech. It was quite a touch of the doubts I have on this bill. I'm not going to use the word doubt in that context, I'm just very determined against all the things that are there and I'm going to come into it better afterwards. But, hey. paritaprevir Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir moved here some good things to form, for it's certainly very easy to push through: Is it okay if it's just this? Does it change that much? But then we are setting an example of going too far in some other area, so it is very important to stop the worst law in this law. But, hey. A senator moved here a matter that I might have wanted a little chat with. It is the word picture, or word picture, that should be on the cans. If we talk, for example. about the nicotine pads, they must not be particularly appealing to young people. It refers to image decorations or slogans and not to encourage nicotine consumption and all of that. But from then on, do not have the cans shown in camp. They can only be shown or tested in special stores, where children and young people have no business because they are not paid for it. So that you may wonder, " Though this law is very good, and it is a noble thing, isn't it going too far there also? ' Is it not a thought - provoking thought that here we are thinking about the interests of young people, but in reality the law is just completely unnecessary? Don't you think it's necessary to keep this law in the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u71	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I did not particularly agree with this in my talk, but I wholeheartedly agree. A senator putting it this way. Of course, setting a dress and container so that it does not belong to children depends on a thoughtful assessment of these non-existent measures. They will and will always be able to go too far, thus burdening the products. That's why we're talking about the perfect freedom of work, these are the things that matter there. I agree that it is going too far, and I make special warnings about it. And the thing about the ad warrants, I think there's an ad warrant like this to be a child of its own time. I always feel that we have much better ways, and there are better ways to improve public health in young people and children. Why, then, do we not follow a course rather than pursue these unnecessary burdensome rules? I agree with the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. As I said in my earlier talk, I was a little impressed with the way I was treated that maybe it might be innocent to let something go over because it may not be so important to some overall agreement, but we may have come to the point where we are setting an example for taxing legislation elsewhere. But I would like to ask. A senator, because this is from the government and what. A member of the State Department: Can it inform us about the independence party's position on this matter and how much it has been discussed in the matter of the Party and whether we are expected that the class that teaches themselves highly about the individual's freedom will work as a group to prevent the worst branches from going through?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u73	Mr. President. Thanks for the second answer. Yes, I can just say this very comfortable: we've made an advance of the matter. It's my speech here today that we make very clear about the matter, not the prohibitions for under 18 years, as indicated in my speech, but that it's the mental, mental, taste, and package that just don't make sense, sorry about the cigarettes. So it's easy to answer. We've put in advance, and I trust a welfare committee to discuss the matter carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u74	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. Healthcare Minister for changing electric cigarettes and refills, for addition to the broad limits of the import, sale and consumption of nicotine pads. The purpose and purpose are to reduce the consumption of nicotine products by young people. That's a good price. My attitude, though, is that with this bill going a little beyond what is desirable to achieve that goal and in the discussions here tonight, good discussions, many of these have been considered. We want to believe that as long as our actions do not harm others in general, we enjoy freedom of individuals. In many areas, however, the desire and care of a person are short - lived and open - minded. I'd like to say that the intricate prohibition against fruit flavors on another harmful nicotine pads falls on it. In context, while nicotine pads are harmful to health, they are not as harmful as oncogenic smoking or tobacco pads. That is a fundamental difference between fate and the natural in a society of free people. A natural approach is that the freedom of adults by themselves is the initial step, that freedom to operate in general, but the need for legal restrictions is examined if certain activities are likely to cause harm to others. And here are the passwords, and the damages. If the law is then set, it is also important that the limitations do not go beyond what is necessary to minimize the risk. When we discuss laws like this, they go far beyond what is necessary in order to reduce the risk of self - control to promote harmful behavior. The very opposite of this belief is that the individual is not trustworthy. We representatives in this and other halls have to protect the individual's freedom. We're here, using probe, talking about the freedom of adults, people of their own age. How far can it be taken in order to protect the human health of children? And how could it be possible to deal with and protect them otherwise, in other ways, and less measures? I had a word about what I said. paritaprevir Bertiddi Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, which was very useful. It was great to hear that she, a member of the board of directors, feels the same way as I do about the freedom of individuals. This gives me a thought, and she actually answered, in answer to that question. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson, that senators made considerable notice of the bill. Ministers, members of the council. Then I wondered, " How much does a bill's support grow? ' A health minister enjoys much of it. Then, in fact, I had a very good chat with the highest. The prime minister for the bill, in response to his speech earlier, even explained it. that he didn't think the law should ban nicotine pads in college. Although my understanding of the bill is such that it would include such a prohibition, I am glad to know that the Minister's will is to correct it within the committee if necessary. On the other hand, consumption of nicotine pads with fruit flavor would be banned within the college community, as in other lands, if the bill went through, which is not as happy. V.E.G. A minister also noted that research shows that nicotine affects the front brain, which is developing until the age of 25. I'm just gonna use this opportunity here to argue that people over the age of 18 should be allowed to promote behavior that affects the front brain if they choose to do so. It's just my firm faith. I'll put this statement on two notices. On the one hand, there are other factors that affect people's forward brain, e.g. ADHD medicine, stress, TV watching, for example. Even so, I couldn't support military restrictions in any of them. The other one is that although I support the right people between the ages of 18 and 25 to influence the front brain by using nicotine, I encourage no one to do so. This may be where we come to the point of prevention. Prevention is everything in a society of free individuals. People can conduct themselves, behavior, and not harm others. This is only a basic theme of social development and the philosophy of Western nations since 1783, to guess. What I want to do in this is that prevention has had an amazing positive effect, has done it in the case of youths who drink alcohol, has done so with the use of tobacco. Although commandments and bans have some preemptive influence, the law also has the effect of blowing out black business and has done so wherever we come from to find out the effect of banning products that people want to eat and especially addictive products. Nothing is more likely to blow out the black market than to ban addictive products. I also wanted to say, in terms of prevention, that terror does not produce the results, it has been proved repeatedly. The result is the cooperation of parents and children, the family circle, and the support of people who are affected by tragedy, the people who are most likely to show dangerous behavior when it comes to addictive substances. It is also natural for sports to set aside clear rules that their role models and agents will not use nicotine products, tobacco products, if they want to. However, I don't think that there is any evidence that such products, if anything, are forbidden. I'm also stopping at this very open, extreme definition of fruit flavouring. What I should have really asked the highest. The minister in the answers to those words was: Do coins fall under them? Is mint flavor to the highest. A minister imagines that if the law is banned, this law will not go through? Actually, I can't believe it's going to happen here as the council's ordered. To say that, I want to thank you for a very lively, happy discussion. We've been through a little bit deep on this, but this is a matter that needs to be discussed carefully. I also strongly assume that the Committee's work will draw up and discuss these views fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u75	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who is now legalized into the definitions included in this bill because it is essential that laws work that everything they say is clearly defined and clearly defined. There's been talk of candy and fruit, a little bit more about the fruity than the candy flavor because candy flavor is kind of an opener. The Harry Potter books contain a multi-reflexed series of Berti Botts. They're not just fiction, they can be bought out at the store today, and in these packets there's a cane with mud flavor, just the taste of the Icelandic neto pie. I wondered: " Is there such an inexhaustible definition of law? Then, what should we say, an equal? Or no, we call it legal, don't we? It defines what is nicotine products, and it is just another product that does not contain the tobacco fibers. It contains the active substance from tobacco. If I was Philip Morris or some kind of asshole, I'd see myself on a table and put it to the court whether it works that--no, I would probably not, because I was shooting myself in the leg. But does the fruit taste of this nicotine - based product actually run out but allow mentholgore, another nicotine - which is defined out of these laws? At least I think it's a very complex line to draw.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u76	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. Regarding the first part of the question, he is speaking there about what we call the office of the legislature of the legislature, which means that when a minister is entrusted with authority to enforce a ban, the law must be clearly determined on the scope and content of the ban. Now I'm not a court of law, but my feelings about reading this is that this is a very broad source suggested to the lawgiver to hide the highest. Minister. This is just a matter of taking a special look at the further treatment. With regard to the other question and mentholmetres in the past, it has been discussed to ban mentholgorets, and I'm afraid there is a tendency to forbid nicotine mint flavor in this bill. On the other hand, mentholitets would not do anything for public - health youths. This would do wonderful things for women's public health, aged 65 and over, which I dare say is the largest number of potential buyers on ments in the country. Of course, when making laws and making sure that they are not in the dark, they need to be used with extreme pressure and that the minister of some kind is not being given the authority to implement a law code that is then not supported when under trial. That's why I think it's so good that we've taken it so early in our discussion on this matter to prevent the granting of the final version of the law, an approved law, from doing so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u77	Mr. President. A little more about the expansive of the legislature of the legislature of the legislature of the legislature of the legislature of a Minister is the same minister who once said he didn't know how to define it. As a matter of fact, I thought it would be a lot to think about hearing the minister's words in the notes that it was very difficult to define, that it would be difficult to draw a line into the sand, that would not be a clear line to what flavors you had for young people and that would not. Does a minister trust over his head to define in a Regulation the authority proposed to legalize himself here? After listening to an answer earlier tonight, I did not feel it. Then I can't afford to mention another case in which a minister found it hard to define things, where a minister found it so difficult to define a dose of consumption, that he decided to take the bill of decommissioning and put it into the hands of a working group to define the use of drugs. What's the difference here? There's a cabinet minister standing up in a pit and saying just as clearly as the Ministers can say: "Hey, I just have no idea how to do this. But he's still going to truck the case. In the meantime, in the criminal case, he says that he does not have a good idea how to define dosages and that makes him back up and decide to take a closer look. [[The president calls.]] Why would these differences differ? Why is one driven forward than the other salty one?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson again for the question. I'm not gonna stand here and answer for the highest. The health minister, but the questions seemed reasonable to me. We need to be sure that the definitions of the authority given to him by the law are valid when the law is accepted. You can see the bill we have here for discussion with a number of such evaluable sources for rules, e.g. of 8. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The staff shall issue a Regulation on the maximum nicotine level in nicotine products. How natural it would be for the law to say what the maximum strength is! I hope it gets better. In fact, I hope the law won't say anything about maximum strength as long as it doesn't achieve that limit as far as it can. paritaprevir Gísliun Ólafsson mentioned his speech earlier tonight, that he could abandon the dead. Until then, I feel normal that people are allowed to use. And even if we just get into it, they're allowed to harm themselves indefinitely as long as they don't harm anyone else. Only with regard to these regulations. We have to trust that when the law is accepted, people who read the law know their rights, that they can read the laws, and build their rights, know their rights and duties based on what is in the law. This is a bill that affects the Constitution's right to the right to professional freedom. [[The president calls.]] We also need to examine the bill in view of the potential for limiting employment freedom to some extent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u79	President. Thank you. A senator joins in the talk and agrees with him. I agree, I think it's stupid. I agree with that, of course, we place a limit of our age on nicotine products, as we would naturally do when it comes to anything harmful to children. We must also bear in mind that this is a product that is self - destructive. This is a warning that reduces smoking, which is far more harmful than these nicotine products we are dealing with here. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who he thinks our role is here as a lawgiver. Often, this is because we see it as our task to direct people's conduct by means of some kind of rules and regulations. Especially when it comes to eating and especially when we are talking about eating, this fundamental thing - not need, but the person, like all the animals on this earth, goes to some sort of high level. It's just that way. There is not one animal on earth that does not get high. I think it's been shown that this need for us to set a rule and order to stop it doesn't work. What, then, is our role? It must have been to reduce the harm of consumption rather than try to stop it. I just wanted to hear from what I heard. A senator how he views our role when it comes to public health and consumption, education and prevention or bans, what works best?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen is so much for the question. I think she hit her head with a nail when she spoke of nicotine pads being destructive lips, as they help people reduce the consumption of more harmful tobacco products. As we have discussed tonight, we know that tobacco causes cancer. Nicotine doesn't. I fear, if this bill is not legal, that the nicotine pads are less chosen, they will fall in a row of nicotine dependent people over the products they choose to use, and that more will be exposed to harmful products, such as electric cigarettes and cigarettes. I certainly feel that by rejecting this bill as it appears today, we are responsible for the same time as for the freedom of choice and the well - being of the common people. That's our job, in my opinion first. A senator asks that we protect people's freedom, interests, and well - being. When these things go together, miracles occur. I think what this bill is doing is that it violates two of these factors if it's accepted as unchanged. So I think, as I've said before, it's good that we're discussing this matter well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u81	President. I appreciate that answer. It's an interesting discussion, and it's really important. It's not only about our approach but also about basic ideas, how we view our role here, and how we can direct people in society. This bill presents an extremely high level of premeditation, as well as the many of the bills and councils we're doing here, and I think that we personally go way too far to limit the self - determination rights of the people of the community. In many ways people are treated as children who cannot make wise decisions in their own lives. Not that I want to say bad things about children, because many children are very sensible and far wiser than many adults. When I'm at the highest. One minister wrote about the fact that the use of drugs in other parts of the world and the flavors of cigarettes as well as all kinds of tobacco products is interesting to me, and perhaps it should have been asked a minister if it was considered how this had affected the black market in those countries. What happens when we ban something that is marketed for and applied? Is this going to the black market? I can support myself if we don't like them, for example. Isolates, are people smuggling in some sort of mentol fluid that they put themselves into tobacco and mixing and drying and rolling? How, then, can we monitor these fluids? How do we know that it is safe for people to take advantage of the fact that it has come to the black market, and we can no longer make rules about it? There is another factor, and it focuses on the effect of passing laws that we know people will not follow. Aren't we just gonna undermine the legislator somehow by setting a law that we know people will break?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen again for good questions. I think it had something important when she talked about the legal authority and the control of people. I think the government generally does too much of trying to control people, try to control people's behavior. I think it can often be harmful to the community and to the individual. And as she mentions, what's going to happen e.g. if fruit - flavouring nicotine pads are banned when a lot of people get hooked and pick them up? We can imagine that there is a market for some flavoring flavor, flavoring oil that people dip their tasteless bags into - I don't know - since the contents would be harder to monitor than the products that are already rules and repairs. We're actually opening a pandorbox of problems every time we don't do things. Therefore, when discussing children's ability to limit the damage, whether this is the right way, and if we can achieve the goal, as is the real objective of this bill, we need to evaluate whether this is the only way to limit the harmful behavior of young people, to improve the quality of human health, whether it is possible to achieve that goal in ways that are less than that of those who are proposed on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u83	Mr. President. In the last few days, it's the highest. In the media, a social and employment minister has been talking about the need to change the law on the employment rights of foreigners in order to make the people who come here in some large groups, and to have a living permit on the grounds of humanity, though they have the right to change the law to work on the land. They looked forward to me (?) "Excited about these matters, when I heard this morning that at the council today there had been given a bill to legalize the laws of foreign rights. But, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is a change in these laws in terms of individuals who move into a business enterprise. The bill has been taken here from the previous government, which was then proposed by the Minister of Justice or Minister of Justice, I cannot quite remember his name, various changes in the laws on foreigners and the laws on foreign rights - not as the Supreme Court. A minister has been told that if a person is careful, he will change now. I wonder why this is happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u84	Mr. President. It's completely out of the question. The bill's gone bad. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir Kristinasdótttir called, mentioned by the social and work - market minister, which is now the most brilliant thing to bring to the council, that it is unbelievable. Here, representatives of the Independence Party and the Left Green Government have spoken of the urgent need to alter the law so that the employment rights of people who have been authorized on the basis of humanitarian grounds will be ensured. That law was in 36rd par. bill of Justice last winter. This is where the social and workforce minister gives up $3,35, and 39th. He takes almost every opening in which this one article that matters except the important article. Is that why they want to keep this sugar hole inside the foul bill so that Jón Gunnarsson's son can bring it and squeeze it into the parties?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u85	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson here met my head with a nail. It is obvious that the purpose of taking these principles in a special bill rather than the urgent law allowing refugees from Ukraine to work despite not having the right to leave, is that the government is going to exploit refugees from Ukraine and its emergency need to pass through the Senate a regular bill that has been rejected because it severely violates the rights of refugees. I'm going to the highest. Social and employment secretary to participate in this and allow to the highest degree. Minister of Justice to provide the bill for the adjustment of a law column under the highest limit. Social and workforce minister to bring their own violations of human rights into and put them through the council for the thousand greatest effort?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u86	President. It's a remarkable subject that's being brought here. It is noteworthy, if we put it that way, how it is handled, and then the Government Constitution, how it is handled in terms of policy or, in fact, the lack of government policy, which enters and reverses, if they do so at all. The words of one minister are overwhelmed by other stewards and points that many call for in one minister will then not appear at the council for the classic reason that denial is used. If people don't know about this, it's a hostage situation in which a major category says, "No. " And then the other groups of the greater part just have a lance to come up with. This has a tremendous impact on the activities of the council. We're gonna get a lot of pieces. There's no context, and the Senate business is affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u87	Mr. President. Speaking of the Government Parliamentary Act, it may be appropriate to point out that this bill, provided by the social and workforce minister, is not at the Constitution that was re-enacted yesterday. [[Up in the hall: yesterday.]] It is suggested when known to have to be added to laws to control the plight of people fleeing the war in Ukraine. And it's not done here, it's supposed to be left to another minister to do so in order to rejuvenate all the other refugees who come here to the country, about. With the bill that was distributed today, Minister of Social Affairs is doing a dirty job for the Minister of Justice, he has become his accomplice in the mess that lies ahead of us in refugee cases. That's not nice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u88	Mr. President. We are now discussing this bill, which is proposed by the health minister, where we are, among other things, well. talking about nicotine pads, along with other things. I've had a lot of words in this conversation that I've liked very much. What I may feel is, of course, what kind of product we are talking about in nicotine pads. Are we talking about a very dangerous product? No, it's not very dangerous, but it can, of course, be harmful. It is less dangerous than many other nicotine products, where there are other tobacco and the like, we can talk about the old snooze, the Icelandic neto pie, cigarettes, cigars, and plumbing, and all of that. Of course, it's not as destructive as it is. We must agree that this is less harmful than alcohol. I suppose we'd rather have our teenager use a nicotine pad than a bottle of vodka. The question, of course, is, Why are we doing more with this law than we do with alcohol? I kind of think this is a bit of an unveiling question when it comes to this matter. As we have been traced here in the talks before and in the answers and so forth, there are all kinds of alcoholic beverages, there are Topios, and there are wines and coffee and God knows what. It's sold. It is forbidden to sell these children and adolescents, but it is not forbidden to sell these adults. Then you wonder, " Why do I go so far when it comes to nicotine towels? ' I can't see that there's any evidence to set this up, the legislation on this subject, that it's almost more dangerous than it is, for example. alcohol. There is no evidence to support that conclusion. That's why I think there's so many other things I can say about this, that the way to hell is protected from good intentions. I think everyone agrees that the health minister is doing good by giving this matter, and of course there are other factors in the matter that are very easy to support, and when we have the main objective in mind, to protect the health of our children and young ones, we are all ready to do something and other things to achieve that goal. But we must always ask ourselves this fundamental question, " Am I going beyond what really needs to be done? ' In a sense, it has to be said, as it is, that everything that has been said in this discussion today is moving us toward a social committee that will make significant changes in the subject. First of all, I mention what more have mentioned, that is this definition problem that occurs when we speak of the taste of candy and fruit. I mentioned in an antiquated way that if you go into websites that sell e.g. You can see it a little black on the white side. There is a selection setting: Would you like to look at something with a berry flavor, a taste of fresh or coffee, a lacquer flavor, a mint, a lemon? Under all of this, there is an amazing amount of nicotine pad pack size. On the other hand, when you choose the tab, the only thing left, if that bill remains, there are two cans. As far as I can see, if you're going to be a little tough on the definition of candy and fruit flavor and interpret it so slightly in favor of young children and young people, you're actually practically against nicotine pads. There are not too many species left. I don't like that. Surely we look for ways to prevent young people from buying these things. But we must be able to allow adults to use these products, especially especially because it is quite obvious that they have, quite frankly, undermined the market's market position, much more dangerous products, as we know. This is one of the things I would like to make the most serious comments about. I think it's very important for me to get out of this bill and not go along with it when it comes to the welfare committee, and I hope it will be that way. It's good to know that the largest member of the board has made a serious complaint about the matter, especially this point I've just understood. Then, of course, we can wonder, because we're talking about this as a product, it's a consumer: Is this more dangerous than drinking energy? Strong drinks for sale in stores and even go to the Alllium dining room here? Are nicotine pads more dangerous than that? I'm not so sure. I feel that this is an internal inconsistencies in how far we are going to go when we consider the health of young people and then what it is natural for adults to do when choosing their own consumers. So I put it: There's a lot about the goals and thinking in the bill that's good, and I'm gonna give it to the top. Ministers of health are doing well. But I could not resist that thought when I first heard it. The health minister here answers that he himself had a little problem with this definition authority which is entrusted to him and will be subject to the Regulation under this bill. That's exactly what I'm talking about. We're creating some kind of rule, which will be incredibly difficult and desperate to go through. And why should we have people on the payroll in the Ministry or in the Homological and Human Rights Institute, who are also supposed to take care of these matters when it comes to granting permission and approval of this trade, wondering whether this trick can be allowed or not, whether it's a fruit flavor or a treat or something? This is a law code that simply doesn't work out. That's why we shouldn't do this. Then, too, I would like to make a comment on the fact that the packaging of these products will be prohibited, e.g. nicotine pads, text or word pictures that may especially appeal to young people, including with a picture of decoration or slogans. Let it be the slogans, there's no salvation issue that can hold it on, but you wonder about the picture that often is on the cans, and men may not think it is a big deal, and maybe it's nothing, but I just find it so unnecessary in the legislation. It may be some innocent picture, as we see a picture of all sorts of things and things on bottles of alcohol. However, this seems to be something dangerous for young people. Yet, this warning must not be shown in normal stores, so that children and young people cannot see it there. These products can be seen in special stores where children and young people have no business because they can't buy anything there. They're about to start off with something so unnecessary that, in reality, only a misunderstanding is made for those who are selling and importing this product, which is nothing more than a normal product, consumer food, even though we don't want it to be used by young people. I think we need to keep this in mind too. I'd also like to know a little bit more about the role of Homelanding and Civilization Agency in this bill than in 1 5. says: ▪ Manufacturers and immigrants of nicotine products, generators, and refills for nicotine-containing products, electronic products, generators or refills on the market, should send a report on the Homing and Manding Institute six months before the marketing plans for electronic equipment and refills for them within three months before the marketing of nicotine products. I would appreciate further explanations on why this needs to be so long, and why the misunderstanding must be so much, in view of the fact that this is a warning we're all agreed to sell here in Iceland and Iceland can be used, they're ready for a certain age. I feel that this is some sort of barrier to people who are doing it alone to sell or import these products. It would be nice to get a better explanation. Then I would like to mention another aspect of our report, as we have returned to this definitional problem. It says: ▪ Research shows that flavors, especially candy and fruit flavors, play a major role in the popularity of electric cigarettes among children and young people (for example, there are studies that do not show this. Then comes what I'm going to make a comment. The evidence suggests that the popularity of nicotine pads is also true of young people. I'd like to know how well this was done. Are we automatically evictioning what some studies say applies to a nicotine pad, or has this been specifically examined? I think it's important to know this when we're going so far into law enforcement. This is important because if we are being sold an idea of some kind of law or law code based on the fact that there are some scientific research that supports it, I would like to hear more than these transfers from electric sites to the nicotine pads, saying that there is a tendency to do so. What evidence, what research, what is behind it? I would like to know and hope that this will be considered on the welfare committee and the subsequent further treatment of the matter. I hope this case has a lot of superiority here at the council, on the committee, because it is very important to skim off a very serious problem. And if it's the highest. The minister will express himself after that, it would be nice to have some confirmation of the understanding I felt in his words before now that he thought it was almost impossible to create these definitions required of a minister according to this bill. And if they've thought of anything, e.g. The effect on the product selection, if this bill goes through like this, how much would be left in the shelf over the head, because it seems to be something that needs special consideration. I encourage the entire body of Congress to ignore this and to develop a strong opinion of this and, especially, this trap set before the minister of his bill himself that he himself should determine what under the taste of sweets and what is heard in fruit flavors, what flavors might fall there on the outside, and what may not. And I make my point earlier: If the underlying evidence is that we are protecting public health, then this must always be interpreted in ways where more flavors or flavors fall but fewer, simply because the goal is to protect children and young people. So I think it's the highest. A health minister who has repeatedly shown that he listens to comments, might do so, and show him that I feel that he is kind of building a trap for himself, and that he does not feel envious of the position of having to put himself and his office in the great definition problem of thinking about what is sweet and what is fruity and what may be on the edge and what falls on the outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u89	President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I ask myself, and I ask - perhaps I should have made this statement as an inquiry: " What have nicotine pads killed many and how stressful is the health system because of nicotine pads? Here we are changing complex and long laws to work on children's inability to approach this product. But at the same time, we are making a very great limit on what can be sold, how to sell it, well beyond what may be only to limit the availability of children. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because I know what to do. A senator has been involved in the prevention of other forms: why. Senator that if we set the same conditions for selling items, such as e.g. Would this have been the public - health influence that they are trying to achieve?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator rejoices over the counter, and he rejoices in his limited communication with him. Of course, as I came into the beginning, the major thing we need to talk about is this: how dangerous is this? How harmful is this? How far should we go in all burdensome rules and regulations to protect human health without adequately evaluating the harmful practices of this material with many others? That's a very persistent question that came up here. I'm sure there's a lot more pressure on the health system, on hospitals because of sugar intake than ever these nicotine pads. There are a lot more pressures on the health system over a number of other factors too. I have every confidence to say that, although I do not have any study of science here in front of me in this regard. But I'm generally a spokesman for the fact that we should have more freedom and less on these matters. And I'm generally a spokesman for putting things into place so that people have freedom of choice rather than be aware of educational factors and such factors as harmful things. That applies to alcohol, drugs, nicotine pads, sugar, caffeine, and many other things, all potentially harmful in their own way, but it may be mostly harmful to those who suffer from some addiction. So I'd rather, so I'll answer the meaning of the question, go further in the direction of releasing restrictions when it comes to all these lips rather than to harden even further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u91	Madam President. Thank you. A candidate for the answer, and he wholeheartedly agrees that education and prevention are more important than shutting things off. I noticed why. The senator had evidently read the report well with this bill. He indicated that applying for permission would require six months' notice. It started reminding me of an application procedure for citizenship and how long it takes. But now it has been a lot in the past few months that consumers have found that alcohol can be purchased from abroad and through a Web site and bought alcohol where the government's alcohol and tobacco stores do not have, for example, the government's drinking and tobacco shops. and it seems that this cannot be shut down because it is selling alcohol through Europe, countries in the European Union, where we have made a deal, and I know that it is. A senator is a great supporter of the European Union and an increased cooperation with it. Took it. A senator according to whether there was anything in this law or in this bill that forbids individuals to order their fruit pads from foreign Web sites, in the European Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt appreciation for this and that question. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In some cases, we are putting just some kind of law that forbids something, and it is quite impossible to enforce the prohibition. If it's forbidden to sell it here, either through a local Web site or just out of the store, then we're in a position where we're basically making it -- who would have believed it? - some kind of black market with Fox and Loop and all this fine stuff, so I'm gonna go. I don't think that's a good idea. I was not lugging it directly into the European Union or anything like that. I just believe that, so that I'll answer something in general, very earnest that the way to achieve the public health goals that are being pursued and to put this barrier around children and young people, is not to forbid adults to use these products to the extent suggested in this bill. And because there was a Housekeeping and Caste Institute mentioned earlier, I encourage all members of Congress to read the great role that that this institution receives in enforcing the laws that are here. It's just that there's a lot under there. You can apply government fines because of all kinds of things, listed here to 12 teams. There are police charges and licenses, and anything possible, daylight can be set up, up to 200,000 bucks. for each day. The overall effect of looking at this bill is a little bit because we're talking about a much more dangerous and worse product than it is, for for adults are this consumer, certainly harmful, as chocolate can be in excessive amounts. So the need for such strict legislation is somehow far beyond the occasion, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigmar's Guðmundsson over an interesting talk, there are many things to say. He described in many respects the concerns I had with reading the bill. I made a special decision by the senator's discussion of prevention and prevention of the rules being proposed. If I understand this correctly, it is suggested in the bill that there will be some strict rules about sales, dates, markings, and access, but the above should be used to forbid any brand of flavor because it leads to a particular group of children. First, natural questions about the flavors of children arise naturally, whether they are not in the same taste as those of the older ones and so on. I feel that it is a lack of control, a sort of despair, to go so far in these suggestions. I may have preferred to hear thoughts at ease. The senator's opinion on whether he considers it to be that giving all the rules that do not seem to be at all to date; about dates, marks, and other limits of sale of this product, that what is disputed in this bill adds something to the preconceivation value; whether there is some preconceivable value or if this is what is sometimes called false security. That is a good resolve, but the question is, Is this going to the goal to be set?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u94	A respectable president. I think that came out, for at least One comments about the bill, that setting such burdensome rules could work against the spirit of the law, and I'm sure there's something to say about it. The above discussion noted that what will be banned could become more exciting than what is permitted. I think we must always approach young people as we approach one another in our dealings. We give ourselves to people who are reasonable and give us the results we did back then, e.g. against smoking, it can work too. There was a lot of educational and prevention work that worked out for them. I remember that in tobacco law some 20 years ago, it was just that goal, trying to reduce the harmful effects of smoking, good, and noble goals that everyone could unite in. But then, suddenly, the idea was developed in that discussion, and good if it didn't become a law, not even to show smoking in movies, TV shows, or books that would be different from what they would do. For example, those making poets, works of art were not allowed to produce the evil man with a cigarette in the corner of his mouth. We know that those who are making works, whether movies, books, television programs, or whatever, often have to create a variety of such impressions. It's like the bad guy in the movies couldn't swear. You can go so far to achieve good goals, and I'm afraid there are many challenges in this bill. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps that is why the reaction in the hall here today has been a little tough, especially to this measure of flavor.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundsson's secretary for the answer, and I think I agree with him again. These good intentions bring forth a specific mental connection to other things for adults but may have a variety of fruit flavors. If I recall my youth, when I began to drink alcoholic beverages in the shelter of night, somewhere in secret, it was now a tasteless liquor purchased at the black market, but it was truly mixed with drinks that had more fascinating taste. It was fruit and sugary drinks that only got into a bonus, and I would have the age to buy and no problem. I don't remember who was the one who mentioned the above possibility that if the children were going to play with nicotine pads, they'd just dip it in Fanta, if that's what it's all about. That's an interesting point. Now, with other drugs in our society, I'm primarily talking about legal drugs such as alcohol, that they also exist in a variety of ways. It has a similar set of rules that are proposed in the bill, and I can't see that there's a lot of disagreement about age limits, on sales and performance restrictions, and on other matters. I just wanted to see what I saw. A senator as to whether it had changed anything, whether there had been a positive addition to the limit to the availability of children to alcoholic beverages, banning certain flavors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. Gunnarsdóttir It's good to Kristínardóttir about all this. I thought why. paritaprevir Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir captures this very well in her speech earlier today when she went through these things. Of course, if we are allowing this matter to go through the way it has become so easy to use it as a reason for going the same way in other areas. No one's ever thought of it -- I think, I'll just be right about it -- to go that way, because children and young people drink alcohol, although they're not supposed to, forbid alcohol with flavors. No one has thought of it, of course not. And why would we do that in this? I feel, as I was calling in my speech earlier, that a certain internal harmony must be in the way we handle products that are for the most common consumer products - they can certainly be harmful, but people just think that they are. So it feels good to use these products and be willing to take on harm, but this internal harmony must be in place. When all of a sudden we have this bill, which involves much of the nicotine baths and regulations, in some respects, more stringent than about alcohol, I feel totally lost. I feel that it sets a dangerous example, and I feel that it opens the way that I hope that people will not go, although I myself have stopped drinking alcohol, i.e. To start putting some more strange fences on the product most people use consumer products. Indeed, it is a group that uses that product to harm themselves, but it cannot always be a goal for the overall population.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u97	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill for changing the electric cigarettes law and a battery of generators. The fact that we are looking at is that the availability of children to nicotine products that are so easy. It's a lot to sell, even in shops or on the Internet, and maybe just some individual sellers, without the ability to catch them, bring on some strings, and it's illegal to sell these products to children. I understand this discussion here, and I understand this point, that it's being spoken of as custody. It's talking about banning adults, and it's going to be, so it's going to put an end to adult freedom of choice. Then we must think again, " What difference does it make? ' What are we adults willing to sacrifice? Are we possibly willing to sacrifice a fraction of our freedom of choice in order to have a chance to protect children from nicotine? This is a question of priorities. It is true that there is fate in action, and I am first to oppose adults from doing something that has nothing to do but with them, for surely we are not talking about an adult who uses the nicotine products mentioned as hurting anyone other than himself, and this is not something we want to do. We're not being smart about this. We want adults to have the right to choose things, to have the freedom to do what they want, provided that they do not violate laws and as long as they do not harm others. But here we are in a bit of another business because it's been demonstrated that by importing this, even if it's forbidden to sell it to children, and then I'm talking about individuals under 18 years of age, access is only very good. It's just all over the place. What, then, are we going to do? We have to take action. Now I speak as the former head of the Children's Cod, Save the Children's, for six years of age, and I can't speak differently, and I'm ready to give up the choice of choosing the flavor of a pillow, ◯while, with the permission of a president, in order to think as follows: Okay, I'll give it afterwards; but at the same time, I'm also closing before or at least reducing the availability of children to these products. I can live well with that conclusion, perfectly comfortable with it, but it's true, it's a great premeditation, and we don't want to be on this endless ban. But we may just do it for the children. The whole discussion here has been more or less a basket of flavors, candy flavors, and fruit flavors. Which way are we standing here in an hour and parrying? The first thing we need to do is take care of our children. There's nothing more complicated than that. If it has to be shut down in this way, we will. I've been looking at the reviews, and, of course, they are. The reviews of children's stakeholders show a great deal of joy, but nicotine trade stakeholders are naturally crazy. Is that something to be surprised about? It's a whole thing in these reviews about a general pleasure with this, i.e. that we're doing this to protect children. I also think it's been so much in the discussion that if this bill becomes legal, this will happen and the other one will happen, and it'll be even more like that and even more queer, and then I'll come back to it: how can we know? We can't know. I remember a time when there was a sudden ban on smoking in restaurants. Oh, my God, they expected things to go crazy not to be allowed to smoke in restaurants and bars. You just didn't see it coming, it was so radical. What happened? Yeah, some people were stealing to smoke in restaurants and bars, but then they fell into the flame of death, and we love it. If you visit Faeroe and go to a restaurant, you're completely choking because the next person next to you has the cigarette in your plate. In this regard it will probably be similar. There will be protests, we don't want custody, we don't want this prohibition, and we don't want it right. But what happens next? The children will not have as easily access to this, and it will be easier to get their arms around it, and can't we just be happy about it? And one day this is the last thing I'm gonna say. With the permission of the President, I would like to read from the comments of the Children's Choices of 151, and I would like to try to see if we could relate to such parties as the Children's Hope, who are primarily concerned with the interests of children beyond the interests or rights of the adult people. It says, by permission of the President: The safety of the child has been concerned about the limitless availability of nicotine products in public stores and the use of nicotine pads among young and young children is known to be very common. Children's health calls for special attention to online shops and guidelines on how to prove that they are 18 years old, they plan to buy nicotine products through the Web site. According to the Children's Department, it is not enough to give that responsibility to the seller, as is now expected. a paper with the bill. The websites that sell nicotine products need to make clear how to present online products, as the websites can be accessible to children. When reviewing electric - products - selling websites, there are no restrictions on access, no reports that only those 18 years of age or older are allowed to do business there. Maybe you've all read every bill with the bill and this one or maybe you've turned it around. Those of you who are criticizing and opposed and who do not want to see this may not have been reading that report very much, I don't know, that's why I wanted to read it. I just want to set priorities here. I want us to put our children in first place, always allowing their needs and interests to guide us, even though this may mean that we do not have the same hundred percent choice in something like this. We will live on in a fine way of life, even if we are unable to approach those lips as we used to. If you want to spend the rest of the evening talking about flavors, candy flavors or fruit flavors, you're just gonna enjoy it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir IKolbrún gonna have to Baldursdóttir one for her speech. She asked: "What are we willing to sacrifice for the welfare of children? That's a very reasonable question? What are we ready to sacrifice? At the same time, however, we also need to be realistic and ask, What is the basis for this prohibition? Do we know that the prohibition on flavors will reduce the consumption of children, or can we conclude that the flavors will do otherwise? Can we estimate that nicotine powder prohibitions will increase the sale of even more harmful nicotine and tobacco products like cigarettes? We also need to ask ourselves, " Do I have a prohibition, such as whether it's possible to be shorter than making a general ban? ' That's why I want to ask him why. On the basis of her research, it is thought that it would be enough for cigarettes to have them for sale rather than for a sample, on the basis of which we are here, a more harmful product than nicotine pads. The question is, Is there any reason to let stricter rules apply to nicotine pads in any way than cigarettes? Would it not, then, be possible to achieve the same objective by having these nicotine pads for sale rather than a sample of the harmful cigarettes?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u99	A respectable president. What's the result? Can we know that? No, we can't know. But do we want to risk it? Do we need to know exactly what will be gained? Yes, we may be able to save this child. It will not be harmed. One, two children. It's just impossible to answer a question like this completely impossible. And kind of, if I'm asked, I don't care if we don't know. I just know that we're gonna reduce the availability of children to the product. It has been reasoned on in this bill and in all these comments. It's not as if this bill fell out of the sky today. There must be some thought there, in addition to my confidence in the religious organizations of children who have come with their reasonings as well. Then, on the other side, you can think of this: If we do nothing, how many children, who continue to have easy access to this, who will eventually become addicted to this and suffer lung damage? Neither do we. We don't know either way. But what we know is just enough. About the cigarettes, yes, that might well be. But what's the point of walking a little shorter? Why don't we go all the way? I know that the freedom of choice for adults is going down, and it really hurts for some people, it's quite seen here, but I think it's kind of slow to go short. Yes, you may have it all behind the counter, and you may have ID, and just the way you have your cigarettes, but then I ask myself, " Is it always so that when a young person buys cigarettes? ' I haven't studied it and I don't know it. I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u100	A respectable president. We're not talking about everything or nothing. We are not discussing whether a total ban will take place or a sale of this harmful product to children, such as those on other harmful products, such as those on the Internet. Let's take a seat. It's our job here to go down a little bit, and we're discussing what likely effects will come from different exports and whether it can be achieved the same good goals with other less subtle ways that I believe to be possible and therefore ideal. As we discuss these harmful products, we will always be able to set up different scenarios and determine what happens. What happens if we choose the option A, which is just a total ban on everything? We can estimate that it would increase the black trade with the used product, especially when we are talking about addictive products. That's what I'm afraid of, that by absolute ban, those who earn their money on illegal goods are still growing and that the availability of children is still considerable, as is the case with many other illicit products that are forbidden. That's such a big question for those who speak for the idea of freedom, i.e. that bans are not enormously likely to bring in the benefits people hope for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u101	A respectable president. I agree with a lot of it. A senator was saying just now. It is true that bans are not necessarily likely to produce the desired results. But there's too much at stake here, I think. I don't want to use this sort of unconcerned case -- I really want to use the word "balm, " with President's permission, "I'm sorry I'm so embarrassed" to say something like that, but sometimes you're missing the word. I feel that there's too much at stake here, and I don't think it's possible to equal the sweets and nicotine pads. We can find a lot of things that are not good and that are not good. But I feel that something has been spoken here at the conference hall tonight as if this is some of the essential nourishment that some here, who like to use these products, just panic and fear that they cannot walk to this product at all the same time as before. In view of how easy it is for children to have access to this product, it is virtually everywhere. And yet we will cope with our websites. They are natural, and very often they are difficult to put on, and they need special access, even when this has been banned. So it is not as if the bear is won, and there is no more nicotine pads in front of children and teenagers. Still, it is still very complex, and perhaps a long time before we are able to reduce the availability of this product significantly by young people. We just have to be ready when we really see how important this can be. And again: We cannot conclude too much and think that this and the other things will happen - sometimes it's just amazing how things develop, even after something has been banned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u102	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. How easy it is for a senator to access children to these and many other products! But I don't think it's a big misunderstanding that the members of the council that have come up here and discussed these matters didn't help that what this bill says is being done to ensure that the availability of children to nicotine products is very limited. However, it is one thing to limit the bioavailability, another to limit the choice of products and, yes, to speak e.g. the taste. We may have to look at this from another angle, since some people are using nicotine pads instead of smoking. If people using nicotine pads stop using them because the flavor of their choice is no longer available and start smoking, this raises questions about whether it will not even have a worse effect on children around them. We need to look at this whole thing. There's only so much access. There's been high tickets selling this product to children. To stop smoking, the taste may be quite public health.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u103	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. Again, though, it is beginning to conclude a little bit more now that if this is forbidden, those who are using the product to stop smoking could start smoking again or fall, and this will then have a harmful effect on their children, and it is decided that the person is smoking close to children. It's getting a little far-fetched. Yes, it can. But what I think is, in fact, that in this community, at least according to what I've noticed, adults aren't smoking as much near as children, I think they've lost a lot of weight. It's kind of damned. If someone picks up a cigarette with a child at his side, you will notice. Fortunately, we are there to recognize indirect smoking, etc. But, yes, this is one of the possible things. I don't exactly feel very sorry if there isn't a sweet taste or fruit flavour for a person trying to break free from smoking, and thus he may simply fall back into smoking completely and end up in disaster. Of course, you can draw up all these images, and it's horrible, and smoking is very harmful, and it's not that bad again, and I come to watch the young people who walk on it here and there and everywhere. And even after it has been banned, and as I was saying, I don't like it, the kids will still probably just go through the net for a long time, they'll have easy access to it. It will be a real challenge for all of us to put our hands around the Web site. I'm kind of worried about it, even though it's been banned, that it will still be very easy to get on the Internet and to get hold of it, and the children will continue to be damaged by nicotine pads.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u104	Madam President. I think it's just as far-fetched to say that having these types of flavors is harmful and will increase children's exposure to product products. You see, there is no evidence in the bill, except that there is evidence to prove it. I want to talk in general about tobacco and stuff, not just nicotine. Today, countries such as New Zealand, which are being discussed in Denmark, have stopped buying nicotine products and buying tobacco, and have simply said, "Everyone born from 2010 is not allowed to buy nicotine products." Got it. A senator's method is better than limiting? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u105	A respectable president. I don't know what to say to this question about whether it's better or worse. I can't really evaluate it. But I think this is an interesting point, our 18 - year - old condition is of course something special. Once it was 16 years, we remember some of it. We define a separation between a child and an adult on the 18th birthday. The day before his 18th birthday, the person goes to sleep as a child, and he wakes up as an adult. It is amazing, too, that alcohol cannot be purchased at 20 years of age, but we can get married at 18. We can have a special discussion about this. But it's the law today, 18 years old, and I'm just looking at a bioavailability. If this bill becomes legal and can potentially reduce the availability of these products by young people, I'm happy just because I'm all tasteful. [[The president calls.]] If I were using this product and I was devastated because I couldn't taste it, I would be ready to sacrifice the taste. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u106	A respectable president. This has been an interesting discussion here tonight, and many of it is available to me to agree, but it is not. Hv. A senator who spoke said something like this: Let's do it for the children. Of course, that's how you hear words, for I think we all have the will to do everything we can for our children. I think I'm just there wanting to do as much as possible for children. But as I look at this matter, I feel that it is primarily about custody. If we are to continue walking in such a way to forbid anything that can be dangerous for children, our community would be completely different. I remember that when a beer was allowed, it was claimed that society would go broke, on its side. This place would be filled with drunken drinks, children drunk with death. But that's not the way it went. Children too need to learn, to be mindful, that some things cannot be done. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is this all about color, or should we raise our children so that they can endure temptations around them?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u107	A respectable president. I thank you for those good points, that's a totally viewpoint. I'd like to state that a group of people is not a group that likes custody or wants to put on bans. With my background - I've been working with children and teenagers, I've spent a long time with a chief psychologist on the Sturdles, and I've been in this sector protecting the interests of children for over 30 years. I admit it and put it here that I speak out of my convictions and experience of working with children and adolescents. Of course, we can't take everything away, we'd just lock up children if we were to walk in such directions. I just want to watch that there is a bill here to limit these products by banning in a certain way of import, and I trust that the underlying information has been carefully investigated. There are other countries who have done the same. After listening to all this discussion, I feel that many people have been talking to others about themselves. Not that I know they love children and want to do anything for children. Yet, the discussion has been very mature, as I experience it. I'm reacting to it, and I'm thinking, " I'm ready to sacrifice freedom of choice in this regard if, as shown in this bill, these words are limited to the availability of children and young people. ' Then we may not know so much more how this is going to develop. I still think we have to give this a chance and see what happens, like with so many other things we've done, like the beer in the direction just mentioned and how we banned smoking on bars and how things just worked out. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u108	A respectable president. Here, people's background was mentioned, and because it was done, I'm going to mention that I have even. worked as a counselor at an institution for drug abusers and alcohol abusers and was himself deeply immersed in such things as a young man. I went into therapy and got out of it, and I know this world very well. There's nothing to ban things for me, I just decide not to use them myself. I think we need to teach it to our children. It's not enough to forbid everything. We do not forbid wine because it is yellow in colour or green or blue. Wine is sold, but children are not allowed to use it, and I feel that training should be done, that children know that some things are not suitable for them, and that they should not be used or used by them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u109	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for all those answers. There was something good in all of them. We're discussing these matters, and we deal with them a little bit, and I think it's good that we do. I would like to use the last seconds to read one other of the comments of the children's songs that I think are important to me: It is important to protect the good results achieved in this country when smoking and tobacco/nitino consumption of children and young people from the 1990s until after the new century. Sadly, research has indicated, as mentioned earlier, that a considerable number of children are now addicted to nicotine products, since the standards for such products have not been established quickly enough. Therefore, to warn of addiction by nicotine products and poor health consequences, more important precautions are needed. Once again, this is in the hands of the government, and maybe this will take some change to soften something, and it's just gonna be exciting to keep track of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u110	Madam President. I hope you don't take it the wrong way, but I feel like I'm missing, not just more people in the room, but other people. We're about to land, as all too often, that the executives are giving away their wealth. The last days, last week, we have been discussing very political matters since the highest point. Health Ministers; medical services with the elderly; no directors discussed this matter. The surgeon's report, no governor discussed it. Under compulsion, which the minister withdrew in good health. None of the directors made a sound about this matter. Well, we're discussing a matter that's affecting a bunch of juvenile neurons in one of the board of directors. Young independents encouraged their members in this matter, but the wealth is little more than mere showyness. [[The president calls.]] We have received a speech from one of the senators, and another senator took a brief answer. It is now all the world's world when the root of so - called freedoms asks that members of the council be true to their values. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They may just be busy at some annual festival in town.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u111	I remind you that speaking time in conference management is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u112	President. Young lndependence warned today about the bill being discussed tonight. On Facebook page of the movement says, with permission of presidents: To this evening, the health minister recommends noting nicotine pads with flavours. It is not the State's job to regulate the practices of free persons. Just as the government doesn't forbid you from eating 30 Snickers a day, although it's unsatisfactory. This and other statements and viewpoints from young members of the Independence Party have been heard here and tonight, but have not come from members of the Independence Party. Where are they? Will they not be a protection for the freedom of the individual in this matter? Is that to be left to the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u113	President. It's a classic for the Senate, the government's gonna step in, and then they're just gonna go through without a discussion, unless the government's part of the Senate job, and then they're going to file here in the Public Assembly. Government officials do not, for if they simply sit on their hands, the situation will go through; it's checked in committees; the case goes through committees and into councils and everything; it's not democratic debates. I would've thought, like a what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson pointed out that in the cases just mentioned here, we would have wanted a democratic discussion with the executives. It is necessary in this matter that has been well discussed in the media among some of the subversives. It's the classic ethic in terms of that. All we can do is come here and say, "This is not a good thing enough. But don't let management show up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u114	Madam President. I'm only beginning to wonder if there's nothing left to tell you. We have seen that the head of Parliaments and High Priests go a long way both in the platform and in the media, talking and speaking about all kinds of things they intend to do, but not doing here at the council: collect fees, bank taxes, criticize the health system, criticize equations, etc. The independent government party brings in some kind of advance, some government book, and slips in one member who can discuss it. But if they don't, they'll come here in a month's work, and they'll talk from their own heart. So the Senate's activities have become such a battlefield to its rulers, but in the case of high - political matters, which would normally bring attention to the management board, all of them are going home to sleep unless they are in a state of shock. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir, who sits here, and may be about to say something tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u115	Madam President. I suppose that many members of the Independence Party, especially on the younger side, have received a vote on their liberal views. It is here at the Hall of Congress that talks about the basics the government intends to put forth and what the government intends to do. It would be very good, not just for us who agree with them, but for prospective voters, to hear their viewpoint in this discussion. Or are young independence men, and those who are on this liberal line, still in a campaign? Can they not see that they have entered the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u116	A respectable president. For a new senator like me, it's a little special to experience the tactics that often take place here at the council. For many days now, we have had conversations with the highest standard. Department of Health for various matters that are of great importance and need to be discussed. But somehow it's just been a conversation with a health minister who's been having a conversation with this fierce health minister who's been sitting here for hours talking to the government opposition. I just hope that I'll start seeing this fine health minister on the team with the opposition, maybe that would be fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u117	Madam President. I just feel compelled to come up here. I don't know if there's any misunderstanding or what. I don't know any better than that it's completely clear, and it's been shown here today, that I was the first to be honored, with very serious comments at the top. Minister. With concern for young lndependence members of the Independence Party, it was the youngest member of the Independence Party, the Berglind Guðmundsdóttir, who was before this evening with a very dramatic and excellent speech. It has been observed that the Independence Party has taken care of this matter in advance from their council. It is only very normal for a government team, where not all are in agreement, to end up normal in a democratic conversation when cases are going to appear before committees and such. I'm just gonna let myself say that there's a misunderstanding rather than a deliberate attack on the independents, our fine people, not to tell us what we think here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u118	A respectable president. I cut it down in my speech anyway. paritaprevir Sverrisdóttir's daughter spoke of the presence of the Independence Party. Then I just want to know if the whole independence party will be there for them. In earlier talks tonight, it seemed as if it were just part of the Independence Party that made that advance. If so, if the whole outfit has this advance, I'm asking if this case should have been passed through the government and brought forward in this picture. I also ask them why more people are stumbled. The members of the Independence Party have not ascended here in a chair to describe their decisions and try to achieve the effect we hope to achieve the treatment of the matter at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u119	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Dagbjartur of Gunnar, son of Lúðvíksson. I exacted that in the President's conference board a member of the Independence Party for the first time was that the entire body of its members had made a warning about this bill. I didn't hear it in the discussions here earlier tonight, after having even sat here and listened to t.d. Berglind Ósk Gudmundsdótttir describes himself in advance. [[Foregroundly, I'm listening.]] It is important to say exactly what a group of members of the board will do when doing so as a whole because there is one of the big sledges in the drawer. This has not been clearly established. It has not been established whether the group requires that certain items be disposed of during any concierge treatment to allow the case to go through. We don't know what the outcome of this case will be on account of the largest government party. However, this is not unusual because they often use political treatments to hide issues that cannot be resolved, to throw matters halfway to the council, and to hope that we will do something.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u120	President. Given a nominee, I wanted to quote here only in speech. paritaprevir Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, in which it deals with its warnings before we go any further, with the permission of the president: ▪[M] is not about opposition to the above - mentioned prohibition. Rather, it is about how adult freedoms and the Constitution of employment freedom are spread down to the end. My warning. Just be clear, it's a quote from her speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u121	President. It's nice to have the conversation here in the later hall. It was called trivial to draw it up, what was in the speech of each one. Senator. But I guess something came up. It is difficult to look things up in such short notice after it comes. But it's possible, because we have such a really cool page called butts. Allota.is/raed/sars. I suggest that members of the council look up this page and use it to examine the text that is quite identical. As soon as the next speaker shows up at the Pontta Alduis, the text of the last speaker is here, not quite perfect, but for the most part. When you're digging up what the other one said, it's very quick to enter and see exactly. Otherwise, I have some comments to the bill that is discussed here, and I just want to start reminding people of the ban. Did people not learn anything from the ban? That arrangement did not work. It literally produced organized crime in many parts of the world, causing untold sorrows and bad things at that time. A banism such as this is something we should take tremendous care of and ponder in every way whether something else cannot be done in return. Nothing is likely to forbid products that people use as consumer products, and have done for quite a long time in nicotine terms, to work. There is the possibility that it works counter to the opposite, that it has a worse overall effect after all. Given this, it is not unusual to define nicotine here as a matter of caution in terms of age and such. The next thing I was going to come to notice is that my attention was attracted to the adjustment of law, the tremendous amount of law that was being passed through the entire code of law, and the exchange of words like the Minister of the law, and the like for the Minister of Ministers, to be put in the title of the law, after the canals, to which Ministers were referring in the law text. As a result, when vows are made to a minister, there is no need to change the entire law code to which the minister is referred. I call this attention because this is exactly where we have the other problem. They're referring to Housing and Civilization Institutes, which have various roles in regard to these laws. If the name of that institution has been changed or changed to various other institutions, that is exactly what needs to be passed through the entire legal code and changed the names of these institutions here and there. It is a question of whether a similar legal arrangement should be made, if mentioned in a particular institution, should be made up of which organisation is responsible for the law columns. If there are more than one law, it may be reasonable for the law to be divided in some way or to be used in another way. It's just a tip in this regard. In C-duty 1. Figure 3. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Nikigotines: Products containing nicotine, whether nicotine derived from tobacco or not It's just a spare containing nicotine. Now, there are some natural products that contain nicotine, e.g. tomato and eggplant. I wondered, " Is these nicotine products that fall under these laws? ' That would be interesting to know. This is a message to the Commission on continued work. It's certainly not much, it's thousands less than taking tuxes, etc. nicotine, in spite of everything, is there. Tea, too, pepper and peppers. That's what I find interesting to say. Strictly legalized, these products should depend on nicotine products. It may be normal to specify a quantity, a minimum amount, or something like that, how much product must be used as nicotine products. It gives interesting appeal to the consumer dosing bill, the crime problem, in which a certain minimum required for consumption is precisely defined, and this would be a certain amount of nicotine, which would be somewhat interesting. In the B-E-T-T. 9. g., it is interesting to speak of flavors that might appeal to children, such as candy or fruity flavors. This list is not a complete list, but it is a very open directive warrant for further implementation of this directive. Apparently, it happened in Norway, I think I was, or in the discussions I noticed about this case, that following such a fruit and flavor ban simply a bunch of new species with some sort of name like siclon or something like that, a siclon flavour, something artificial, something so artificial, autism, or something like that. Who should evaluate whether such material should belong to children or not? I think it's an interesting question, because it's spoken of a toy and fruity, it's a very open definition. We naturally know that fruit flavor is a very broad term. It is not necessarily strawberry flavors that are used to make strawberry flavors. Does that mean, though, that we have some sort of government - like a wine-tainer, that goes through all the flavors that are available and weighing whether fruit flavor is involved or something else? True, it is possible to deceive with other labels and to say: This strawberry trick, which is really strawberry flavor, is called something else, I'm not saying that it's strawberry flavor, and that's why I'm going to pass it on. Is there a taste watcher going to decide if this applies to you or not? I think it's a lot of spes. I understand exactly where this comes from, the urge to ban flavors here and there. I understand exactly where the argument comes from with regard to the children, they definitely come from a good place, there's no doubt about it. This does not mean, however, that everything you say to protect your children is the only way to protect them, not at all. Sometimes we have to choose a more complicated route than those that seem to be simple: Hey, let's just forbid it, that's all. No and no. The ban should teach us something about it. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of what taste he used in his coven not long ago. I remember seeing some nice doll as--yes, let him express himself about it, perhaps at the end of the discussion. Let's go over to 12. It adds a new paragraph, with the permission of a president: The use of nicotine products is prohibited in schools, elementary schools, high schools, and other educational institutions as well as in other households designed for day care and social, sports and leisure activities of children and young people. I understand where this is coming from, too. But can't you wear a nicotine patch? Does anyone know? I'd guess the answer would be no. It must not be placed under the trunk, wearing nicotine patches, and caring for these daily needs of nicotine addicts. Is that really the objective of this article? I don't think so. I understand that smoking is forbidden and that is considered indirect effects and even things that are visible, e.g. I'm putting a bell in your lip. I totally understand. But the effect is more complex. No more are we talking about how addiction affects people, how it affects them, how it harms them, rather than forbids everything, hides everything, puts everything under the table. Shut up, you can't talk about this. No, it's O. Is that helpful? Has it ever worked? I don't think so, not that I know anyway. The license warrant for 16. I thought it was really interesting. It is a permit for candidates - this is a miniurdour, the excuse - but it says: 'The warrant is bound to a permit, and it is not delivered in any way.' Good-bye? I find it so remarkable to use different methods in comparable ways. This is a marketing authorisation for a particular job. It's nothing different than sale of a greeting or a gift of a greeting in the quota system, it's exactly no different. It may carry a front and back expansive expansion, and the developers can only cover licenses, etc. Here it is. That's interesting. It's just a little bit off, I'm sorry, it's not that bad. I just think that's a connection based on the way expeditors and permit divisions are in this environment of ours. Indeed, there are some interesting and justified aspects of this bill that we definitely need to examine seriously. However, there are other factors that we first need to examine in another way. It is cultural in the way we approach social problems. In this bill, the approach is clearly that we can't think of anything more intelligent than saying, "Let's do this." I think it's the wrong approach. Well, it's a bad solution to almost all the problems to think first: Let's figure this out. Other solutions are definitely more complex, all equal, requiring greater activity, greater action, even more costs. But the effects of being preemptive have certainly proved itself through the years, with instruction and counsel and a positive attitude on complex issues, such as addiction, something that we need to develop in order to promote a healthy society. Until now, with the Narcotic War of Iceland in 2000, and so on. - Did it work? No. Has it ever worked? No. Still, they're trying again and again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u122	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For an excellent passage, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson He went on to the depth of this case, which is what I've been calling in and we've been calling after tonight, that we can discuss this matter a little bit well and get into it, because this perspective that we're discussing here needs to be made to improve the case in committee work. As the situation is now, my sense of reimbursement is that the case was better paid back at the Ministry to process these major faults. I see the highest. A minister will shake his head, and there will be no way. It's not surprising, either, but at least it's my position, as I see it. We've had some good discussions here, and that's why. A senator is coming into the discussion right now, I would be willing to throw part of the discussion that took place before him and ask just such a general question: How does he feel it best to shape this bill, this law, so that the public health issues toward children will be above but not go so far in the limits of the consumption of fully trained people as suggested here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u123	President. Thank you for a very good question. It comes only to what I just finished in my talk earlier, and it's really what our culture is like. What is our spontaneous reaction to problems? As I was saying earlier, our reaction to something that threatens children may seem to be banning. Let's just look at it, and then we'll figure it out. Now that we don't have to think about it, we can start thinking about the housing market. Unless the board doesn't, unfortunately. I think it's going to take a little good care of it - not just on this case but on alcohol, on drugs in general, on addictive gambling, for example, just taking the drug party the way it does, we need to make changes in our thinking. Once we have already educated ourselves in the existence of other potentials that have shown themselves to be active, we may be able to take steps to create laws that use that arrangement. I often find it in many other grammatical groups, such as the use of certain methods of teaching, the use of them only for an eternity of amen, but education has produced a variety of other better methods, yes, or worse, and is still being used. It had no evidence behind it, and it was only being used anyway. I believe we should learn more from critical, practical methods. [[The president calls.]] The ban has not been successful, and we need to take this into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u124	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson met the question when he spoke of a change of mind and working in the field of education that is involved in prevention and has sometimes been called predestination, for many learned articles have been written on what works and what does not work in these substances. Scots have been very effective in building their policy on science when it comes to prevention, and we can learn much from their approach. One of the things mentioned here is a family society that has been done about it. Another factor mentioned is early intervention in high-risk individuals. You can grab individuals very early and give them the kind and loving care and the needed support. What does not work, however, is to take an old junkie and shovel him into a schoolroom and let him tell his children to avoid drugs. This same science repeatedly shows that it does not work and can have the opposite effect in the worst cases. That's why I wanted to wonder: " What else we're doing here, e.g. In this bill, is it likely, to have the opposite effect, as we have discussed? Will the prohibitions on nicotine pads make it possible for nicotine addicts to get involved again in smoking and smoking in front of their children? These are some things we have to take up here and work out if we're going to live up to more advanced legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u125	A respectable president. It's not just in this area that I think needs a change of mind. Consider, for example, the law of success approved during the last term. The financing is questionable, if you don't mind me saying it like that. Money comes, but exactly how to plan and use it is most unremarkable, something that the council really has not known will result in the result of the law, for there are no criteria for it. If we stop considering only the methods we've been using - because they're completely in the dark. It is the founded culture behind it, sitting behind a desk and accepting applications and stamping them, etc. Experts say that it is a rule of thumb that maybe 30% in each year of a child's life have some sort of childhood trouble. Each child may need an average of eight hours with someone who can help with the problems at different levels, in the first, second, or third stage of treatment. Just a simple muppet of it: Here's a therapist who takes 20,000 bucks, eight hours for this many children, multiplied by pi --it's usually the thumb rule because there's not always 100% of the total time - we're talking about 1.5 billion, something like, 100 people who are a team to receive these children. For the whole country, 100 people would face the problem of success and would cope with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the cost behind this, the cost of a lot of places in the system. So there would probably be no extra cost, it's just using the method effectively. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u126	Madam President. The human being, like all the animals on this earth, often goes to some sort of high level. We'll never stop it. Young people's risk factors are normal and even essential in their development. This risk management behavior has different manifestations, manifestations that change with the era and new generations. Some climb on roofs or terns while others make use of different strengths, indiscretions, and indiscretions. This discussion has been held, and it has been pointed out that nicotine pads and poultry are destructive measures. Then ask yourself: " Is it proper to make too much too much use of them in view of the fact that people use them to stop much more harmful smoking, including smoking?? Our role here is as senators and as adults who know about children and other countries is to reduce the damage that can come from eating people, but not necessarily trying to stop all the consumption of commandments and prohibitions, since they have shown many things throughout history, and we should have learned that commands and prohibitions are not the best way to change people's behavior, especially when there is something like this. We can influence the consumption of educational and preventive practices primarily by creating an environment and providing support for risk behavior, preventing the harmful consequences of consumption, and preventing long-term consumption. Anything harmful is also not forbidden, since it is not always the solution. We have a world record of soda, sugar, and other harmful habits that truly affect human health and individuals in this country. What happens, and have been proved when trying to ban something that people don't feel should be banned or they don't realize why they're banned or they think it's too far out of control, is that people start breaking the rules. This happens more as others think the rules are ridiculous, and as people feel that they are more ridiculous, what we call a black market is what we call a black market. This is something we know well about other drugs that are in some way legal or in part illegal in this country. In these last days, there has been much media coverage of how successful it has been to reduce alcohol consumption in young people. Is it because alcohol was suddenly banned for this group? No, buying alcohol has been banned for quite some time for all people under the age of 20. What changed? What happened? What helped young people to reduce their consumption of alcohol? To some extent, this is one reason why less harmful things are available. In recent years, we may have come to realize that it is above our young ones and that it gives them the excitement and that the curiosity of being a growing person reduces the likelihood that they will look for more harmful ways. The objective of this bill is also reducing harmful behavior in young people and even children. How do we do that? Young people's harmful consumption may be due to lack of options, but it is also due to a lack of healthy relationships and other factors that all other methods must be used to work with or against, rather than, commands and bans. In fact, bans and commandments are not the modern - day methods of governing, neither adults nor children. For example, as a child - rearing method, the ban on something with consequences and other factors may not be more effective than the method of parenting that is simply no longer recommended. It is certainly true that people and communities have in many places developed ideas about such things. I would like to mention personal experience with a society where I believe the evolution of parenting is reduced by shorter means than, for example, In Iceland and in the North, there is an experience of my stay in France. It was after a year and a half in France that I noticed that the halls of the elementary school were going all over: one. No going in on your shoes, no putting your school bag here, no running in the tunnel, no gum, no gum everywhere. I was amazed to see this, and then I began to think: " I'm not used to the word today any more to see the word "borig. ' The school in Iceland says, "Please remove your shoes." Here we have a clean walk, walk carefully around the floor, and so forth, as it has proved to be more effective to support people for good works and children, especially, and what to say, to exercise specific precautions with intelligent conversation and so forth. These methods, forbidding, are not modern - day ways of controlling people's behavior, and we know that. This is not new. But what brings my attention to this, that it should be brought forth, is that this is not an isolated case in the policy of the government and in the way of what is set before us here in this way. In fact, it went to the highest level. The health minister decided to withdraw a bill about forcing people with a mental disorder to do something or do not do something, instead of using the instruments approved today, which are treating people as mature, independent, intelligent individuals, even though they are facing challenges. There was one example. Another example is that decision at the highest. A minister who is very sorry and has been very much discussed here at the council Hall, and this discussion is probably not over, to withdraw, or to decide not to provide a bill that truly is about mental change in these materials, is about actual damage, a real struggle against harmful behavior and harmful consumption. There is a bill about criminal consumption doses that have not yet been applied. So the focus of the government on this bill has become quite clear. It's an old - fashioned attitude, an old - fashioned ide behind it. I think we all realize it doesn't work. These are simple, primitive methods, just as they were years ago, and still in some communities, children use physical punishment to control their behavior. That is something that we no longer do, both because it does not work and truly because it is harmful, it is harmful, harmful. In fact, this has been pointed out in this case several times. Parliaments attempt to use forcedness, even bans, and such methods, such attitudes as controlling behavior, can have opposite effects, even harmful effects. So what can be done? First of all, I think there are a lot of good ideas in this bill, as has been shown so many times here about limiting access to some extent and so on. However, there is also a great need to work for security, and the preemptive work is not merely walls to explain to people how harmful things are. Our relationship with each other involves being careful about how we talk, how we speak to our children, and all that we have learned in the last 100 to200 years in order to influence people's behavior. I just wanted to come up and describe my frustration with the ideologies, which I see no better than that are behind many of the Government's Congress and behind the fact that a number of Congress matters have not been submitted, and encourage the committees that will cross this bill, and members of Congress in the treatment of the matter, to take a good look at these matters, to consider the goals that are aimed at, and whether the ways that are suggested are actually a failure to achieve them or whether we might be going in the wrong direction, whether we might be causing more harm.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u127	Madam President. I hope we soon finish the discussion on this particular subject. I think there's something very good about tonight's discussions that there's a lot in this matter of good prevention and limiting the availability of young people to these products as well as how important it is that it is an alternative for people who want to stop smoking. As a child, I personally had the prevention that I never smoked or used this nicotine pad or anything like that. But that doesn't mean I'm going to stop others from doing it. There's also something else I've noticed, but it's that the people I know in my environment that's been smoking have stopped it and are now using this pad. I believe that it is of good things, as with everything else that we do when we're setting limits on what we can buy, what to sell, what to eat, etc., we need to find the golden average in it. I think it's clear to all of those who listened today that the fruity flavor and even the candy flavor were in that discussion. The bill would probably have gone through in two minutes if the sentence and phrase had not been in that room with other schools. But we'll learn from this, and we'll make sure to send them a message to the health department that puts it better, not talking about other schools, and not attacking the flavors that the senators use, the bills go through faster. It is my hope that we will begin to finish this discussion and introduce this into a committee I trust and believe to take into account the repeated factors that have been presented here on taste and college.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22.u128	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much or seriously review the material issues. I'd like to thank you, Gísli. Parliamentaries before the discussion and can agree with them why. A member of the council here last spoke of this 1. The results of her Ólafsson treatment were to draw out the matters of opinion that are involved when they enter the council and at the bottom. The welfare committee continues. I'm glad that there's a clear agreement on the main objective of the bill on public health of children and teenagers. All I heard was that there was no problem with Icelandic warnings, as we know in the packaging of similar warnings, about harmful products. And there was also a very clearness, which turneth to the twenty. that regular instruction and prevention in that area are important, and that is part of the bill. That is especially two factors that have been drawn out in an excellent argument facing the 9th floor. and flavors. It's controversial, it's been shown in a court of agreement. I went so far here in a pita to say that it would be a difficult task to leave a minister to define it and to draw a line into the sand. There are many fine things that came out of many ways, when we are weighing our freedom and then protecting our young ones. First, I'm going to find that nicotine pads are new products on market than electric cigarettes and refills, and here we are adding nicotine pads. It is only unclear, and it was shown in a paper with the bill that the same applies to nicotine pads and electrices. It is said to fall with a ◯ argument. In many studies, flavors are believed to play a key role in the popularity of these products, especially in children. Thus, it has been chosen, especially with regard to electric cigarettes and refills, in other countries, to simply forbid flavors. That's a clearer line. I'm not suggesting that way be gone. However, such a scientific route is being based on data. It is always important, and that is why it is also difficult when solid evidence and research are not available. However, there is some evidence to suggest that this evidence is true, i.e. the same value as nicotine pads and generators. With the permission of a president, I'll refer to the SCHEER resolution, the abbreviation of the Scientific Committee on Health, Environment and Emering Risks, which suggests that there is strong evidence by forbidding these flavors and that a particularly fruity taste for children and adolescents. At the same time, it shows that it is far more vague when it comes to ethno·leiʹa in general than it has to do with children and adolescents to some degree. I know it was even. Based on this, SCHEER believes in not going so far as to ban all flavors but to compromise. This is difficult, I want to emphasize it, because we want the law to contain clear instructions and instructions, especially if you are to be placed in the Regulation of such separation or a line in the sand. I appreciate this from the discussion that the above said needs to be made more clearly in reference to the way you can do it. There is also another factor mentioned in the debates. Councilmen, this is a ground order, 18 years old, to limit access. There must be something in this discussion that we are walking on our freedom in order to protect our children. I thought that was a reason. Councilmen at 1st. At least and how hard. the welfare committee to follow up on it and to call for references to the members who will provide guidance on this matter. This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir In an effort to prevent flavors from being forbidden, a child's Baldursdóttir organization promotes a child's interest organization. He stands here as health minister will always take position with children and adolescents and their organisations. We're in a hurry. If the council says, "You're supposed to follow these instructions according to these laws, " you're going to do the highest. Of course it's a health minister. I'd also like to put out an excellent tip about Article 12. which may be inexplicable. It says: The use of nicotine products is prohibited in theater schools, elementary schools, high schools, and other schools - and it can be concluded that this value is in all schools. I don't get it that way, but what? paritaprevir On the Dagbjartur of Gunnar's Lúðvíksson Lucívíksson, it might be blurred, and you might conclude that this was forbidden in college. This is exactly what is supposed to happen at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um, she's supposed to come up with some useful tips, and I'm really nervous. A medical committee to sharpen the wording, apply it carefully, and evaluate it. Initially, this bill becomes the law of electric cigarettes and refills, and smoke comes from that product and may be drawn from the conclusion that to some extent it has found its way into this expression, I don't know how to say it, but it's a good tip. I just want to thank you for this discussion, and I know why. The well - being committee reviews all the good views and arguments presented. Um.....U.U. President.
