ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u1	The big thing was still going on around the chapter. I had planned to connect and cross into the energy tank, obviously related and a lot of subjects there, but now I understand that there is an effort to establish an arrangement that can be available to all, hopefully, and that's why I'm going to try to help if the President doesn't mind it, and I don't miss further discussion on this matter for the time being unsupervised. President. I'm aware of that. I have not been able to cross except a fraction of what I would have wanted to review here on this matter but I think there may be a chance to get into one of their other responsibilities and then to expect to be more issues from this government as in the future, if this government continues to give the opportunity to review what I would have liked to trace to this discussion. But to help with the Senate, like ours, I'm a member of the Central Party and I'll have to stop here for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u2	Yeah, I'm on top of it. President. I want to thank you. Councilmen for today and tonight's discussions and just want to have a few things now that this discussion is over. It is important to keep in mind that economic developments are taking place for some time. We are coming out of one of the greatest economic hardships in the republic's history. This, along with the constantly changing world conditions that do not need to be explained, has led to the change in the two months since the proposal was first proposed, the economic outlook has changed considerably compared to the criteria that led to the budget and why I am holding it in place, the more honorable president, because I believe it is important that the discussion here reflects the conditions that are in society. In this context, though, I would like to be right that there are good signs of heaven and a reason for optimism. It has increased by less than 9%. Job ratings are good, and the consumption of the households is increasing. I'm not gonna stand here and talk about any magic solutions. The situation is simply improved by the efficiency of the diminishing effect of its pandemic. Tourism is returning to its former position with its due positive effect on national preparations. It is true of most people here today that because of their pandemic due to changes in the tax system, e.g. reduction in tax steps best obtained by the lowest income has an increase in personality discounts, a decrease in road income, as well as more, the state's revenues have been contracted. This is all promoted in the Commission's list of parts and in the opinion of a financial body, but it is not to be overlooked in the discussion that we also talked about revenues by various means. We need to do this at the same time that we do not over-excite the bow by means of the action in which it will take place, thus working against increasing inflation. This is what I would like to thank the members of the committee, the committee's committees, and the economist for the cooperation of this council, which has been a challenging and complex matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u3	Mr. President. I recommend more part of the European Environment and Transport Committee at the Committee to conduct a case on 461 radios for communication. The bill includes an overall review of the communications legislation and the introduction of the European Parliament's Directive and Council 2018 from December 11, 2018, of the European Commission's legislation on telecommunication. In English it is a European disaster, a Communication host, a breed of drifts, or EEA directives that are also referred to in general as the code. This is a new foundation. The updated core rules of a telecommunications market that releases four older types. The E. c Directive was set up in the EEA Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 275/2021 of September 24th, 2021 governmently in advance. On the same day, the Convention of the Council of Europe and the Council was set up to establish a European Commission member on the domain of communications, and an institution was formed to support it. The European Group of APCCs referred to as the panel is a recruitment and policy-making centre aimed at promoting the integrated introduction, induction and implementation of the European Network of Communications, such as the publication of the Guideline and Counselling. Every day, the EU is quoted as being the directive, and it is under the Regulation that communications of the European Union's 2018 General agreed on by law on the telecommunications Fund started with No. 75/2021 authorization for the minister of entry must be carried out by the regulation of the Regulation. According to the Commission information, its sentence on the part of the Minister is determined to be by law. This would include the European Union's communications package in Icelandic legislation. The committee discussed the matter and received a meeting of guests. Covers. This is reported in a committee study. The aforementioned opinion is followed by the Commission's discussion on the subject. More parts of the environment and transport committees are requested separately. The Commission discussed the importance of national legislation at any given time, and the overall review of all communication regulations contributes to the progress of investments, competition, economic coordination, and consumer protection. The Commission then discussed how to cooperate with a market company where the bill is encouraged to expand the cooperation of market partners and joint investments in building infrastructure and specific elements. Name of the one who builds wood. The majority of the committees have the importance of communication and cooperation with infrastructure. In addition, the Committee discussed the preservation of data based on criminal investigation than in Article 3. 89st. The bill contains regulations that stipulate the obligation of telecommunications companies to preserve certain minimum data record for six months in terms of public safety and criminal research. The law is unchanged from current communication laws, but it entered the laws by changing the No. 76/2005. The majority of the committee aims to consider as soon as possible whether it is possible to make adjustments in the article taking into account the views that the time limit of preservation is too short, and points out that at that opinion the requirements of legislation and international human rights commitment should be taken into account. which are related to the freedom of expression and privacy of privacy, the opinions of intermediate behaviour and the development of European legislation on the field of personal protection. At the same time, the Committee discussed going to state grants in order to expand communication. The majority of the committees, therefore, are directed to the minister to find ways to secure better access to state-sized infrastructures so that a truck will make sure that they are actually useful in promoting communication and competition in that area. It is obligatory that the government's financial support is being reflected in prices for access to the requested service. Finally, it seems appropriate to note specifically that the bill contains a variety of new words that are designed to facilitate and improve the government's ability to assess the results and reforms of the communications legal environment and to carry it out on a regular basis and in the future, to deal with such areas as communication. When there is progress in technology and services. How important it is that governments regularly assess the results and make suggestions for improvement if experience shows that improvement is needed! A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees contribute to changing the bill. It is the introduction to the EEA, which was both highly technical and specialized and specialised as to the development of changes Unnur in cooperation with university, industrial and innovation ministers and after communications events. A greater proportion of the committees feel that there is no need to trace the technical and specific changes that are directly related to the induction involved. It is proper to distinguish materially from other adjustments. First of all, a change in safety concerns is proposed for the development of mobile networks at 87th. 2mg is added. 87th par. That when allowed as telecommunications centre Twenty-seven. are related conditions that contribute to the diversity of equipment are seen across national telecommunications networks. The change is designed to sharpen the wording of the law. Second, a change in the reliability of the emergency and security of communications is proposed at the 95th st. It's being added to deck two. Ninety-five. to sharpen the improvement of the regulations that the Minister is authorized to set about the reliability of emergency and security communications. Secure emergency and security communications are essential for initial and harmonizing actions of the affected person. The bill contains an distributed provision allowing Ministers to regulations in the regulations, but the detailed directives surrounding the emergency and security of communication are not covered. The majority of the committees believe that it is important that the Minister's permission to provide information on conditions related to disaster and security, communications in the Regulation, should be in place and therefore proposed a change in the directive. To date, minor or legal changes are proposed that do not require specific consideration. Refer to the other referred to a detailed discussion of the change proposals in the Committee to cover more aspects of the environment and transport committee. According to the above, a greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes made and proposed in a special Senate document. Under the opinion of more than one part of the Environment and Transport Committee, as well as the above, why Councilmen, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Bjarni Jónsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Ingibjörg Ísak, and Orri Jóhannsson. The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir. This will be the end of this vital issue. It's a big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u4	It's Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. I was assigned here very briefly to review my committee opinion as a friend. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson wrote. I would like to encourage people to read this detailed committee opinion, but there are three main points that are highlighted in the committee's opinion. I'm gonna start with the two smaller ones first and then take the biggest one next at 83rd. On contracting network security and communications companies, it is a law based on a comparable set in current legislation, but the article includes the obligation for communications companies to accept contracts for technical monitoring and services to order a network security unit and, in the opinion of my share of the Committee, it would be appropriate to take a little deeper consideration of the need and reason for such regulations as it may be possible to use such instruments to spy on the interactions involved. Second, it's in Section 3. 1 8... It provides a warrant for compromising the minimum duration of the frequency rights, as shown by the bill's processing that it was not a means of reporting the use of the frequency and use of equipment in emergency times provided from abroad. But just a few days ago, the General Assembly adopted a new public defense law where it was accepted that it could be brought in, for example. So there's so much detail about how you can do that too. But third. Third, and what can be said is that most of the committee's opinion is going on. It is about data storage, but data storage can be made in simple terms as when the law ordered communications companies to keep minimal information on their client's communications tours with specific objective in mind, especially if it later becomes necessary for law enforcement authorities to inform a certain criminal case by using the telecommunications of wine as evidence in the case, and we are mainly trying to point out the possibility of such a problem. If there are some data related to privacy. Is there a great risk that these data can be taken advantage of if outsiders get across them, and some of us remember when 30 November 2013 the website of Vodafone's communications company and text messages bank information, passwords and other things came through, and I'm just going to invite people to read the next four pages of the committee that are going very closely on this case and what needs to be considered, but on the other hand, the lesser part suggests that the bill will be accepted with the following change of value: If we add a new provision temporarily to the implementation of these laws, the task force is appointed by the secretary of this team to review the 13th chapter taking into account the judicial action in the EEA on the privacy of communications matters, particularly the effect of 89.g. is personal protection and privacy, as well as the ministry of telecommunications headquarters. Personal protection should be taken to ensure that within the task force there is privacy experts in telecommunications, and the staff shall submit a valid report to the minister for any adjustment necessary to be no later than a year after the execution of the law. That's why I'm writing. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u5	Yes, Madam President, I'm in charge of the Commission's committee from a greater part of the environment and transport committee in the premeditates of Signý Halla Kristján, who is the head of this committee opinion, this is a bill to legalize the climate laws of the Marine School of Accidents, which has been discussed by the Committee on the matter and received to his appointment of Eggert Ólafsson from the Department of Internal Affairs. The bill suggests some changes in the Marine School for Accident Prevention because of changes made in school since the law was given about three decades ago. The majority agree with the subject of the bill and suggest that it be agreed on as unchanged. Under Bjarni Jónsson and Helga Vala Helgadóttir, they were absent at the hearing. Jakob Frímann Magnússon, an officer of the Committee, described himself as having agreed. Under the writings of President Vilhjálmur Árnason, Director Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, chairman of Ingibjörg of Ísrael, but Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Orri Jóhannsson, and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u6	Madam President. I just wanted to say that it's a pleasure that we're here to make changes in the person, only technical changes in things, for some 30 years since those laws were passed. In 1985, seamen's accident - prevention school was founded, and from there some 60,000 sailors have been trained to record it until the time the school was founded, a fatal accident on average of about ten a year, but there has been no fatal spills in the sea during the past five years. No more calls have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u7	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the members of the J.A. Committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's list of changes to bill to legalize a set of laws in behalf of children. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for visitors to meet with them, reviewing the comments on the subject. The main objective of the bill is to create a legal arrangement that helps children and parents who need uninhabitable access to integrated services. The objective is to eliminate legal obstacles that can prevent cooperation with child - welfare services. The bill is designed to create conditions to deal with a child's specific circumstances or difficulties in life with appropriate support when needed. The bill is a major factor in the changes adopted in the last legislation to increase the success of children and children's families, to improve early support for children, and to increase the cooperation of those who render services to children and families. Most reporters were positive about the bill and do not make material remarks to it. It must be emphasized that the bill will be approved to support the great and good changes in integration laws for successful children. One reference work makes comments to the bill, especially since it does not take sufficient account of the variety of families in a family pattern. This refers to some degree of parental ability for parents to share responsibility for raising children, such as. 18th par. United Nations children's covenant. The review suggests a change in 6th paragraph. the bill suggesting that the duties of a community to social services be discussed by the child's parents. The committee makes a special point in Article 6. The bill refers to the decision of community service for the children's candidates, the Social Services Act, to recommend that each person be obliged to exercise himself, his partner, and children under 18 years of age. According to child - law law, both parents carry a duplication to their child, as well as to the law on the implementation of stepsteps and bedparents, although a child - law program is handed over in different ways, depending on the parent's position toward the child. So the committee feels that 6. The bill makes decisions about social services to those who have a role in the child and not just to those who have the same legal home as the child. The committee cannot see that the law contains obstacles to the rights of children who enjoy a wide variety of family patterns. So the committee thinks it's a proposal for the review. Therefore, the proposal does not make it a goal to draw out the rules of Article 3. The children's covenant is a law on community service. The committee wants to set aside the above indications for the service of children who live in two homes and their families. As a result, the Committee received information that the issues of children living in two households include topic subjects, social policy activities and the Ministry's labour market, including will now be conducted within the Ministry in connection with the introduction of regulations for the switch-in-house services and the household of children in two homes, especially when parents live in separate companies. The committee emphasizes that this work will be done as fast as possible. Comments are made on the comments given to 13 st. The bill, and the agent believes that law affects some of the rights of 12. The United Nations children's covenant guarantees children. The committee points out that the Children's Covenant is legalized by the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, No. 19/2013. In a comment, we're 13. The bill shows that the plan is to be interpreted according to Article 12. The children's covenant and the committee point out that it is therefore not going to be 13. is interpreted more narrowly, or the rights of the children are reduced to some extent by the law. Nevertheless, the committee feels the need to adjust the rendering of Article 13. and bring it more in line with Article 12. The covenant. Under the committee's opinion, the publication of the above - mentioned publication, Ásmundur. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, The Guðnýju Birna Guðmundsdóttir, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Lininga Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir, Halldorra Mogensen, Orri Jóhannsson and Óli Björn Kárason.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u8	A respectable president. I recommend to the Committee to Residents on bill to legalize various laws due to the transfer of real estate files from Iceland's National Registry to housing and the Agency. The bill primarily includes the change that, instead of the National Publications Index of Iceland, the Agency will be assigned projects for the registration and assessment of real estate, but the Agency already provides a number of projects that involve real estate and other construction projects, such as the management of workers, records, construction developers, fire control and power control, to name just a few. The bill thus suggests that the next step will be taken on projects involved in a real estate record by its transport to housing and the Human Engineing Agency, now running a new building, edifying a list. This change improved the perspective of the housing market as well as the improved services of rural areas and the construction industry and government management. Would this also be in harmony with the government's support of the biographer agreement, while a large part of the development of a government task force that gave its proposal in 2019 objected to improving the information of housing chaos, including some of the problems that exist in 2019 countries. due to lack of available right and timely information, concern for housing matters, and the different definitions of important concepts like an apartment in a building. In addition, the integration of compromises and the emphasis on improved information on the government contract would be clear. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by visitors, and some reports were received. This is reported in a committee meeting, and the committee's opinion is followed by a discussion on the subject. The Committee wants to set up a very small number, particularly in the case of currency and reimbursement fees. According to the government tax manager, the office does not consider a new 24th paragraph to be possible. law on registrations and real estate assessments, No. 6/2001, includes additional tax reimbursement warrants due to information provided from real estate and related files. The committee points out that the tax does not provide access to national data on the basis of 90. 92. g. and 94rd par. a law on income taxes. So the committee agrees with the tax tip and rejuvenates Article 24. the law on real estate registration and assessments does not include additional authorization for reimbursement in terms of resortation of reimbursement in terms of reimbursement. This means that the bill will have made changes to the system due to a registration for Real estate files. The changes suggest that housing and the Agency be authorized to set a fee for services, instead of confirmation a registration and then published in Government News. The committee was made aware of the above changes in the registration of the registrations, especially whether the arrangement would reduce the transparency of the sentence. The Commission points out that the nature of the services and rights and investigation of the administrative rules means that governments must always lay the groundwork for a currency. It is what cost-employers will pay and what amount they are. As a result, governments have to arrange information on costly grounds in line with this and the citizens and members of the organisation, such as the Ministry, the Council's Office, and the courts are to be able to obtain information on the cost of pay. The Commission points out that these rules apply regardless of whether the Minister's law is legal enough to confirm registrations. As a result, the Committee has concluded that the above changes do not reduce transparency in the sentences of the registrations. The two preliminary regulations allow the minister to appoint a team to prepare the separation of the terms of property files from other parts of it and to transport the basis of the Constitutional book of real estate from housing and the Agency to the county. At the Committee's meetings, it was noted that the wording of the provisional arrangement required adjustments in order to allow more space for the staff to search for ways to carry out the assigned role. Um. It is important that wording of the law does not interfere with the task force's freedom to search for the best technical solution, taking into account the need for housing stakes and the Agency and the county agencies. The word change is not intended to change the work group's tasks from what is described in the report with the bill. Then there are minor legal modifications that cannot be made. It is not meant to have a material impact on the bill, nor is it necessary for special coverage. On the other hand, a detailed consideration of the changes made in the Commission opinion suggests that the committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made. Under the committee's opinion of literature, as well as the above, p. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, The Guðnýju Birna Guðmundsdóttir, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Halldorra Mogensen, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, chairman of the welfare committee, Orri Jóhannsson and Óli Björn Kárason. A respectable president. When we're moving a project between the institutions, it's important that the good work is done, and I think it's done on this matter. This is to increase efficiency in the system that works with real estate, making the role of national files even more simplistically simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u9	Madam President. I recommend more than a part of the employment network for a Committee on a bill to legalize various fish - control laws. The bill aims to strengthen the monitoring role of the Fish Lab and to provide changes to the main fish - control legislation in the Agency. It is suggested that, in certain cases, a Fish Room should be allowed to advise anyone who neglects to provide the information to the Agency according to law and to collect collections of day tickets. It is then suggested that the warrants of the Fishing Office be clearly stated in order to publish official decisions on the loss of fishing and revocation of the GDP. In addition, changes are suggested to strengthen the information of the fish lab for electronic monitoring. We attended quite a few of the visitors and reviews mentioned in the committee. In light of the objectives of the bill, we discussed the surveillance role of the Fish Room in view of the rest of the bill. 57/1996, and No. 116/2006, on the control of fishing, these include to contribute to the sustainable and practical use of fish plants in Iceland as well as to support their protection, to secure employment and to the urban environment and to the long term maximum production for the Icelandic nation. Thus, the majority of the remaining items are necessary to support the monitoring role of the Fish Lab, but they emphasize that monitoring legislation needs to be clear. In view of the evidence that changes are made to support the information of the Fish Room for electronic monitoring, the Committee discussed the need for the processing of personal information, but in the review of Peritoneal Protection, it is critical that the bill does not review the essential processing of personal information, in view of the requirements of the 71nd chapter. the constitution and whether the need for observation would justify the violation of privacy of individuals' privacy that would be involved in this operation. The greater part is that privacy restrictions must always be based on clear, specific legal authority; however, there is an urgent need. The majority feel that these points could have been explained better in the bill's report. The bill is providing monitoring and thereby improving the collection of specific personal information. The majority of them feel that there is a need for an important role in government policy on sustainable and responsible fishing and that the aims of the target system are met. Presumably monitor and prevent diffusion rules in terms of weight loss, evaporation and the compression of Preservations. Then the Committee discussed the assessment of the effects on personal protection through the processing of personal information. In the discussion, the Commission was informed that a fish lab has evaluated the effects on personal protection from the processing of personal data along with a job description of the use of telecommunications, and these data have been published on the Generals web. In the management of the case, it was discussed that assessment of the effect on personal protection has been desirable due to the processing of personal information in preparation for legislation and that the results of the evaluation were discussed in the report with the bill. The majority of the data are important to have been identified above and that they can be seen along with other legal details. The majority, however, point out that the review of the effects on personal protection does not appear to be working in relation to the contributions of this bill, as stated earlier, and will be directed to the Ministry and Fish Office to assess the effects of personal protection because of the progress of personal information submitted by the bill and authorised, it will be accepted. Finally, the Commission discussed electronic monitoring systems at sea, but the bill suggests that the fish lab monitors will be allowed access to electronic monitoring systems in landing teams in order to monitor the level. As a result of the discussion, the view that the directive would need to be explained and discussed in which the Fishing Room will use this authority. The majority of the data shows that if available, there is access to electronic monitoring systems. The bill does not include the traders'obligation to install electronic monitoring systems. The bill's report shows that we need to consider the personal protection law and make sure that monitoring is in accordance with the purpose of the source, i.e. to monitor the level of labor, taking into account a moderate degree. In the majority of the world, we have these views. We in the greater part contribute to changing the bill. First, a change in e - mail registration is proposed to ensure that ships who fish under special means also keep a daybook. The law also expects ship captains to send recipe books electronicly to the Fishing Room before the fishing trip ends. The majority suggest that, instead of the word "extratechnically," the word simply occurs to meet a more rapid development in technical solutions on the registration of financial information. Second, a change in terms of the bill's day's suit is proposed in addition to its provision for providing data to the Fish Room. The majority of them believe that it is necessary for a fish lab to have adequate resources for e.g. drop-off of data and information, but ensures that the relevant fines are sufficiently effective and have a warning effect. It's, for example. can be taken into account by taking into account the financial strengths of the surveillance provider and the nature of neglect or breakage. So the majority contributes to changing the amount of fines, i.e. that they may be in the range of 10,000 K. To 1 million. K. and that day tickets must be determined as a proportion of a specific size in the management of an observed party. Then a decision on the money of a day's fine will be permitted to take into account the nature of the individual's neglect and financial strengths. The majority also suggest that the removal of unimpaired day - to - day guiltys will be permitted to provide information to members later, resulting in a tendency to change behavior. Then the bill will be removed from the top of the day's benefits. The maximum is the same as in the bill. Finally, a minister will be authorized to discuss a decision and to collect day's fines in the Regulation. Third, and perhaps the most debated, is proposed as a change in the use of telecommunications in monitoring. Commenting on this, we found criticism of this bill's requirement that a person's privacy was too near by secret monitoring of boats and ships. It was considered whether it was possible to mention the reporting of a fish clinic for monitoring telecommunications on telecommunications. It was noted that such obligations could reduce the efficacy of the observation and its objectives. For example, in the use of a new technology for fish control, the majority of the segments feel that it is normal to step to the ground, and it seems reasonable that a fish room will make a general announcement before monitoring, e.g. on Fish Room webs, but such notifications are not expected to be regional or reserved, such as timelines. Fourth, a change is proposed in the processing of personal information that is permitted to be carried out in order to perform its legal role under the Law of Fish Fishing Control to meet the criteria for the protection and processing of personal information, including information generated by electronic surveillance and the possession of structural organisations and other information provided by the registry. The majority suggest a change in the provision to explain the information provided by Fishing Office for the implementation of personal information, including In view of the possibility that a fish lab will receive information from more sources than the registered one. Finally, the more part suggests the adjustment of regulations to temporarily extend the clearance of the Fish Room to cooperate with the developer on electronic surveillance with cameras on board fishing ships and to provide permission to reach the years 2022, 2020, and 2024. Finally, minor or legal adjustments are provided that do not require specific consideration. In other respects, there is an inexplicable discussion of changes in the opinion of the greater part of the labour board. According to this, more than a part of the employment committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I have made here and can be seen in a special Senate document. Under the view of more than one part of the employment committee of publications, as well as the above. Councilmen of Stefánsson, Rafn Hyn Ólafsson, Ósk Sveris's daughter, Guðmundsdóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson of Fridrik, and Djörn Ingi, son of Pétursson, This is Þórunn to Dr. Gen. Sveinbjarnardóttir, an officer of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u10	Madam President. I wanted to first thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for her work on this bill, along with others on the committee. This is a very important matter that needs to be handled, and we tried on the committee to take the average golden course that needs to be handled. However, I wanted to explain the books I made in favor of the case. It reads, with President's permission: Privacy is an important constitution that should be restricted only when absolutely necessary. Too many data indicate that national resources are shared. The sea, especially in the form of an illegal evaporation, is much worse than was previously thought. Thus, I believe that the need to demand for more information on the use of this common resource is being provided by the Fish Labs under a strict rule that enables them to monitor more closely the use of this common resource of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u11	There's a letter from Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter, 3th of them. Smoke. s., and Fatbourg Gunnlaugsdóttir, Guindardóttir 8. Smoke. n., that they'll be gone soon. There has been a letter received by the chairman of the Independence Party for Ásmundur Friðriksson, 6th. South, I can't do any Senate work in the near future. Today, therefore, at General 1st, a deputy of the Continental Arts of Smoke. So, Rosak Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir, Special Agent 1 of the effectures of the Smoke. n., Jón, Steindór Valdimarsson, and the 1st Apostle of the Southern Independence Party, Björgvin Jóhannesson. Vosa Björk and Jón Steindór have taken their seats before the Council, and they are welcome to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u12	The letter of Jóhannesson's son Björgvin has been investigated and approved, but he has not previously taken his place in the General Assembly, so his commitment to the Constitution is to be signed. I want to pray. A senator writing under the scallop.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u13	Jóhannesson's book of honor is signed to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u14	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 1044 about the use of antipsychotics from Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u15	President. This is probably the last time this part of the program, the job of the council, is on. So maybe I just wanted to talk about the Senate. I hear a lot of times say, "Why does the Senate work as it does?" Why can't you do things a little different, like, or queer? There's a bit of an interesting answer to that. I've only discussed this in the past during the council, but it's good to reiterate it. We have a system of government here that much of the time controls everything. All questions about how to do things differently, so to the greater part, are concerned. Everything the government does is a reaction to what the greater part does. The principle can never be out of control, it does not work that way because the greater part is in control. That means a lot of things. The majority may say, " No, we're just going to do it this way, no matter what the point may be. ' Then there's only one place the government can come to say things as they are, sometimes under a rose or something like that, as it is in that chair. This is the only tool in the management situation to try to make some impression on the board and to try to reach them in some conversation when there is no conversation. Sometimes it is that it is simply causing the government to sweat; it is some kind of reluctant business venture. Then it's just settled on how long the government's environment can stand to speak in a matter. It does not have to be related to the subject being discussed. It's just this way: Here's a stand and it's solved by someone going up in the platform until the place settles. It's quite remarkable to realize what that means in the overall context. [[The president calls.]] It is, I think, something that we should consider a little more, having more resources to settle agreements than just having Aldulis's speaker neck of a bottle. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u16	Mr. President. Today, June 14, we recall in the Baltic States that on this day over 80 years ago, political opposers were moving away from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, part of Poland, and Romania. Tens of thousands of teachers, petty merchants, public employees, landowners, and others threatened by the Soviet Union were taken to concentration camps throughout Siberia. These included thousands of children and quite a part of all these people never returned and ended up in the Gulag. Those were terrible crimes. These forced transfers of citizens were considered crimes against mankind by a committee appointed by the president of Estonia before the turn of the century. They made an attempt to paralyze the society in order to be a guide under Stalín's reign of terror. History's track of terror. Russia has come up with so - called filtering camps or, by permission of presidents, some sort of decoration over concentration camps. At least 1 million Ukrainian citizens have had no choice but to flee the war to Russia. It belongs, for example. With regard to many residents of the city of Melody, destroyed in a calm bombing. It is a fate to be caught on the mercy of violent people. That is exactly what the people in the filtering camps do for their well - thought - out decisions, says a humanitarian organization. People thought to be associated with the Ukrainian army disappear without a trace, while others meet unknown fate in refugee stations and south of Russia. New Gulag is making shape. For this, I allow myself to attract the attention of the United Nations, including the why. State Commission and the Supreme Director. Secretary of State, in the state of war refugees in Russia from Ukraine. These people must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u17	A respectable president. Here we meet on the second day of this legislature. During the next two days, we will agree on an assembly plan to complete before the end of the council. Almost everyone has these matters in common that they are political, written by stewards. Only four cases written by members of Congress, so - called members of Congress, have gained coverage and release from committees. These four cases, with prominent leaders from four different political groups, are decommissioned by a committee as part of these concluded contracts. Sadly, during the past few years, if aside from the very few cases that are part of Congress contracts each year, nearly no senator's affairs have been granted to the council. Doesn't matter how good the situation is or how many senators are involved in it. A respectable president. This trend is a quest for democracy. Many members of Congress thus become the voter or voter to contact members of the Parliament and point them to the violations of the system. A fine example of this is the matter of Congress. paritaprevir The Sverrisdóttir on assisted reproduction techniques, which I and the members of most classes are members of. It is an updated law that was written at other times when only women, married men, were allowed to apply this technology. But even if there is important legal reforms, even though there is a broad group of senators from all classes behind the bill, it is one of the many things that will result in a burial site at the end of the Senate. The only hope for our senators who have produced 104 Senate primes and 128 Parliamentary proposals is that some of our efforts will be replaced by problems and new ones later. A respectable president. I challenge members of Congress and a dignified president to find a way to get the democracy to enjoy themselves and the language the senators offer more attention and good ideas even if it does not come from the lawyers of the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u18	A respectable president. What I'd like to do is that my talkers here in a speech today are law enforcement and law enforcement status in Iceland. In fact, that seminar is a subject for a whole day, but I would like to take one matter into consideration from the many matters of opinion that will be considered in the case of the police. The police'unity and separation from the county of 2015 were a major step forward for the police. I'd like to mean that the changes in the police office getting special police directors were a great success, raising police and law enforcement to another, much better seat. The changes were generally successful, although there are always some changes needed to be fixed, but now in 2022 they are most if not all of them are in the rearview mirror. But no institution is stronger than the staff in it works. It is important to take care of employees and to ensure that they can develop and grow into a career, to support themselves and their services. With a new police council, the police officer's position of cooperation on the future and the police policy for the coming years was established. That's fine. There is, however, one thing that surprises me and has been doing since the establishment of a police council, that is simply the fact that there is not one police officer in that council. It is important that the voice of police officers be heard in such an open language when discussing the future and the policy of the police to the coming year. A respectable president. I challenge the Minister of Justice to reform it and to ensure that the voice of police officers, professionals, will be heard in the future police council and make needed changes to the council so that the police will be represented there in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u19	Mr. President. I have to warn you that this is a recurring subject to talk, even repeated. For years it has been accepted to cancel civil rights applications, on the one hand, before a intermission in December and before the end of June. As has been noted many times during the current assembly, the Foreign Institute has been placed under the highest cover. Minister of Justice, repeatedly placed a stone in the council's street to waive applications for civil rights. Because of this, the council did not succeed in overcoming the autumn applications until the end of April. The reason for the Agency was that the work load was so much and the highest. A minister himself murmured about equality that did not pass any opinions in the media. Now that we are in the final meters of this council, we have not yet been able to get the necessary data from the Internationalist Centers, which they legally submit to the council. Hv. The General and Education Committee requested an explanation for the failure of the data, whether the work load was still in the Agency. In response to the National Institute of Iceland, however, at the end of a long talk on how the Agency would be best tailored to the application procedure, with the permission of a president: When it comes to the group that has been granted citizenship by law in the past few years, it can be concluded that the comments of the police and the Foreign Institute have been of limited value in terms of a decision made on the part of the General Assembly. Icelandic: You don't do what we want, and you don't get the data. So it is not just the conspiracy theory of the above that the evidence from the United States has been held political by the Foreign Institute of Iceland. It has now been confirmed by both written and orally on the part of the Foreign Institute. It is not acceptable for the council to face such bullying on the part of the government, let alone when people's lives are at stake. Also, it is not acceptable for the council to leave on vacation until this important matter has been resolved. Here, people's lives hang on a thread.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u20	A respectable president. I want to make the position of the facility my subject, and I have done so before in this public address. It is important in view of the position we are all facing, and it is necessary and cooperation between state and country to ensure that there is a strong national structure here. I welcome the action that the State has proclaimed on the means to ensure that it will. Everything needs to be shortened -- I know it only by my own experience, and I think we all know what's in here -- without of course it might take the job of an executive. In this context, it is important to trust relevant institutions so important that the structure will be built up with reasonable and professional treatment and management. We all see that today's pressures on the market, especially here in the capital area, affect many aspects of home and their status. Certain groups have been expanding, so to speak, and increasing growth rates have had a significant effect on the monthly payments of this group and, of course, others. We now see this on a more recent rise in a much-real value, and I think it's right to encourage rural society to step in and -- what do you say? - eat this up not one bit, but adjust the stress factor in this way that the elevations not all affect the population of the rural community. The rural communities have full authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u21	Mr. President. Already the Russian invasion of Ukraine has had a tremendous impact, not just on the lives of millions of Ukrainians who have died or fled their homes in the largest and fastest migration of people for 75 years. The Russian invasion also has an amazing negative impact on the global food security, on the economic state of many countries, and on energy control in Europe and elsewhere. In spite of all of this, Europe has shown no greater solidarity than this time against the unforgivable conduct of the President of Russia. Europe has rarely worked as hard as in the humanitarian crisis over the past three months or more. Europe has shown its best, based on the foundations and values of the past century's disaster combined. Where do we want to be in this solidarity of the nations we compare with? Do we want to be part of a strong unit or remain on the edge of a special property guided by few people? When political leaders who support membership in the European Union spoke of the need for European cooperation and of the reinvigoration in Iceland, president of the Independence Party and its members ran forward trying to choke out the discussion at birth. Asking the people could cause no trouble. Mr. President. Where is the European Policy of Three Governments to Europe during a time of terror against Europe and the values that have been fundamental to the restoration following a world war? Isn't it time we started work on Iceland's European policy? We need to discuss how we visualize cooperation with European countries, other than what is involved in the implementation of EU regulations. We need to discuss deeper and stronger cooperation with our friends people, our largest market area, closer cooperation in climate, human rights, science, innovation, and knowledge, and especially with others in furtherance of the knowledge and growth of democracy and the legal state. Mr. President. I challenge the conference and endeavor to strengthen the situation of Iceland in European cooperation and international work, not being overwhelmed by the propaganda and fear of the power of interest for one more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u22	Mr. President. The analysis department of Iceland Bank predicts 8.4% of inflation during June. In May 7.6% and not that much has been reported since March 2010. The success of the bank projections would be a 1% increase in index price since the previous month. I put it in touch with myself, but I'm in a rented market. Since New Year's, my building has gone up by 10%, but I guess it doesn't seem like much and maybe it's just quite escaped. Still, this is a substantial sum for me, for I am an invalid, and at the end of the month, I paid 62% of my provisional provisions for renting. Then I paid 3.5% of my income for the life - threatening purchases. In other words, 65.5% rent and medication. Then the pay for heat, electricity, and telephone will be paid, and the food buy should not be forgotten. I did not choose to become an invalid with all that goes with it. No. If I had a choice, I would have chosen to be well, free from pain and distress, and so you may be ill. All council members believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u23	A respectable president. A report with a budget bill in 2022 made it clear that unemployment improvements would be increased by 4.6%, by the same percentage as the taxpayers. This is what we at the Council expected when the budget was finished, and it was all I could think of, above all, of me. Social and workforce minister Guðmundur Ingi Guðbrandsson would stipulate regulations about the amount of unemployment insurance to match that. What happened next? Yes, without a great deal of pressure, and without any discussion, it was raised here at the General or in the community. Social and workforce minister of basic non-employment benefits much less, not about 14,000. As the Council expected, about 6,300 K. Since then, the compensation has been reduced to the absolute value of what inflation has brought up. What happened when the government finally gave in to the pressure of the government and introduced countertight measures because of inflation? Yes, it was decided again to leave the jobseekers, a group with the lowest income in Iceland, thus particularly exposed to rising food, fuel and housing costs. A respectable president. It's incredibly insignificant, it's just a very insignificant march. I'm gonna propose to the council members in the greater part of the bank at the highest level. Social and workforce minister, challenge him to correct this immediately with a change in Regulation and preferably before going home to Congress. Now, please, senators of the greater part, knock at the top. Social and employment secretary. Let us agree to correct this and apply the terms of the 2022 budget. Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u24	A respectable president. Yesterday, the Management Board's website appeared on a panel report on social and health measures due to a pandemic impact on vulnerable groups. It says, by permission of the president: A report by the Workgroup suggests specific measures aimed at reducing the negative long-term effects of the epidemic on vulnerable populations in Icelandic society. The world epidemic, at least for now in the rearview mirror, affects all of us in different ways. I say for my part that I had not completely realized the impact this epidemic had on an important social relationship. That's what I say, an unscrupulous privileged woman with the best of intentions. Imagine, then, the social impact the pandemic had on those who are in a bad social situation. The work is funded by additional financial resources in the current year and affected by a number of aspects of society. You can, for example, do so. What is involved in the social activities of the elderly, the social activities of the disabled, and the more vulnerable groups, with the goal of controlling their loneliness and social isolation and studying the activity of some 300 million? K. to these classes. Mental - health issues are also stressed to the point. Improvements in health and mental health are emphasized, improved functioning of young people, and the improvement in BULG and BUGL ears as well as the third degree of mental health care for those who are 18 years of age and older. Also funded to shorten a waiting list for children and their families, including for the Advisor and diagnostic centre. The funds are placed in the prevention schools that I think are important, and special summer measures are available for children who are sensitive to their status. Sexual and domestic violence is then controlled and measures are aimed at improving the bioavailability of tolerance and bacteria to the appropriate services (e.g. These are just a few of the actions that will be carried out in both the current year and the next, except for the suggestions of 750 million. K. in the current year and the next 1 billion. Both national and international studies have shown that the pandemic had considerable social impact. Clearly, then, these measures are necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u25	A respectable president. Now my first session is about to end. What a joy it has been to work with you and to witness from the beginning how much people of the nation burn to reform our community! They want to support parents who lose a child, support innovation, and strengthen the post of loans and tenants. They care about the welfare of animals and the environment. Politicians are concerned about the mental health of those who work to help others, want to balance the labour market position, and easy and simple access to assisted reproduction techniques. Of course, those who do not always agree, and perhaps rarely, especially as to how to reach the goal, are doing well. On the other hand, when we discuss the financial agenda of the next few years here at the council, the differences in the thinking and ideals of the council are evident. The country has dealt with the second greatest economic crisis in the past, and it is clear that measures have been successful and the economy has taken over rapidly. However, inflation and worsening economic prospects threaten us. How should we react? There are voices that focus on tax losses in the past few years, increases in the pay markets, and declines in pay; actions that governments can certainly take pride in endings are based on the ideas that society cookies are unchangeable, and differences are only on how to divide them. In recent years, however, economic management has greatly enlarged the cake. There's no dispute. On the other hand, the government was able to do much better when it came to maintenance and management. There could be more of a hard right there, and I encourage them to sit on an eternal need to increase taxes and fees when the pressure comes and simply make better use of the income we owe to the people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u26	A respectable president. During these last days, I attended a conference of the Baltic Sea. It was 31th that such a conference is held, but in this club, the Baltic States, i.e. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland, Germany, Russia, and the North countries all, including Iceland and Norway, are now connected to the Baltic Sea. This was a historic meeting because the Russians have been partying for this conference. We have already condemned the Russian attacks on Ukraine, but at this meeting the Russians were simply expelled from the club. Sources were changed in a way that the Russians cannot be members of the Baltic Conference until significant changes have occurred in Russia. We could all agree on this. In fact, what surprised me more was that our Iceland suggestions were to put into the conclusions of the meeting, which I and I had. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson was also agreed, but where the Baltic Governments were challenged to protect the rights and security of refugees, ethnic minorities, queer people, women, children, elderly and other vulnerable groups that are at particular risk during wartime. We were grateful that this conclusion was accepted. It was even more surprising that our proposal to challenge the governments to defend the sexual health and the self - determination rights of women over their own bodies were also accepted. I think it's a great victory, and I'd like to encourage you. Senators who are now attending international conferences and who have the right to speak for these women's rights, which the Icelandic Parliament has covered. I know why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir is making such a suggestion for the ÖSE annual Summit, and, of course, I will support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to touch on two issues at my virgin talk, one at the cab company where the billing and access block have created rows and waiting times that give an Icelandic cab market a complete drop-off in international comparison. This caught young independent attention with a free shuttle last weekend and a compliment. Although a cab bill is the highest. The inside minister is in the direction of me thinking I'm out of line. Business management is severely restricted, where trespassers should remain individuals and be registered owners and car owners. Remuneration requirements continue to be met and a cab driver's course needed to be met, only in Icelandic. We need not fear freedom in a cab market. It is enough to look to neighboring countries that have successfully opened into a variety of business shapes. Besides, a good cab market is not something that's good, it's something to have absolute security, especially for women who are literally stuck in the world of entertainment, who can't get home, and that's maybe two hours waiting for a taxi. I also want to talk only about health matters as a health care professional. Mental - health status is serious, and there has been a growing number of cases. We who are in this room must ensure better service to these patients. Acute mental centres are only open from 12◯19 on weekdays and from 13◯17 on holidays. Outside of the opening period, people are directed to the emergency department that is bursting under stress, except for those patients who are not at home in the emergency room. Rather, they need more specialized assistance. I have high hopes for a health - care team working with the Ministry of Health that is working on a mental - health programme because we have to do so much better. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u28	A respectable president. The Icelandic public is regularly reminded of the importance of active competition and the cost of competitiveness, whether in bank service, in insurance market, in agriculture, or in fishing roads. The effect is always the same, no good to consumers. The lack of financial resources is the most expensive banking service in Europe. These costs require companies and the public to sit down with them. The same is true of insurance services. High food prices and fuel prices have also moved us to tears. These problems are largely the result of lack of competition and political decisions. A more active market competition is an urgent need for consumers, especially in the case of inflation. While this is one of the forbidden matters of the government, however, little changes are made. Now, at the end of the council, the government still chooses to put its head in the sand rather than discussing seriously how to ensure proper competition, to form a warehouse and service market. Therefore, our proposal for the full analysis of the effect of active competition was not made up of a committee in its time, nor at the present council, as is our proposal for the evaluation of the competitiveness of the state. Therefore, there is no interest in our proposal for a general competitive agriculture policy and there is no interest in market laws in the fishing industry. And there is, of course, no one, not any interest in discussing the interest in financial services and the impact of ongoing changes in Icelandic employment and home life. These are major competition factors, how we can improve people's quality of life, and the government does not want to discuss these matters. A competition is not on the radar with the government, so simple, and as a result, special interests are involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity here, which will probably be the last at this council, to give my annual speech, in which I encourage the President of the General Assembly to take part in the removal of the rock - mass that is here outside the General Assembly Hall. It was reported in January 2012 that a huge rock had been planted outside the General Assembly Hall, which was called the Black Clan and was to be a memorial of civil disobedience after an artist, Santiago Sierra, who apparently calls himself an dissident. First, the rock - mass was located several meters away from the present location. The Presidency Committee has always been wise in this matter without reaching the goal of clearing the eastern plains of this disorder, and now I give the highest praise. A president who has not been in the past in my business, looking to use the summer in front of the World Hall, to have a conversation, either himself, or to get officials that assignment, at Reykjavíkurburg where this so - called art will be removed, which is a disaster in many people's minds. There is something particularly unattracted about the monument to civil disobedience in front of the nation's legislatures. Good President. I'd like to encourage you to do these things this summer, and I hope we've reached a rocky eastern desert in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u30	Economics now. We are coming from one of the greatest economic hardships in the republic's history, and that, along with the constantly changing world conditions, has affected our country as well as anywhere else. We keep a close eye on the development of things, and if additional measures have to be taken because of inflation or other increases, we will approach them as we have access to other challenges in the past few years. It is true that many have been presented in the case of their pandemic because of changes in the tax system, e.g. reduction in tax levels best obtained by the lowest income has an increase in personality discounts, a decrease in income of vehicles, and more, that the state's income is contracted. This is being held up in the Commission's list of parts; nor should we forget in our discussion that we also talk about revenue by various means. A respectable president. This is what I would like to thank the members of the committee, Committee members, and economist for cooperating with this council of Congress, which has been a challenge for large and complex matters, and I certainly hope that we all have good and rewarding things. Summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u31	President. This document, a financial plan, is not like it's supposed to be under government law. There is much they need to do so that a council and a nation really have an idea of who the government is heading for for at least five years. There is no explanation how this will lay the groundwork for some economic stability for the future, as described here in the case of the chairman of the legal committee. Then there will be some action if such a classic political response is not really based on anything. I think economic development policy. There is no basis for what is being considered here in this financial program only a discussion of things that can be done on the other or this road difficult to deal with, no decisions in which government policy is a decision on how to handle and finance a joint project. There is no such decision here. If there's anything, this is a conclusion about something that doesn't reach the objective of any group of paintings that's so weird that at least I'm gonna get red on this financial plan. It is not under government law. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u32	Mr. President. It's an old-fashioned state-of-the-art political bitch who's being fired here. She does not meet the needs of society and the huge challenges we face. It is a systematic tail on the state funds because the income side is broken and instead of strengthening the income side, thus allowing space to build up our public service and to promote our access system, it is the policy of this government to systematically reduce the extent of the state's economy, to keep the government's investment levels to a minimum and thus weaken the ability of the public to perform basic services. It's taking on all of us. It undermines what makes us worthy of a welfare union in the United States. We're going to reject this financial program and I'm going to press the red button very closely afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u33	A respectable president. We of the people have made three adjustments to the financial program. In particular, there is no need to pay extra attention to the hospital. Hospital services such as hospital officials have also asked very strange in this financial program that it is to reevaluate the social security system but should not be put in. So in the next four years, we ask to 10 billion in an effort to make sure that we reduce income exchange and do something for the worst of the world's population. Sadly, we cannot support the financial program as it is presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u34	Mr. President. • providing suggestions on the recording of a new air-of-the-air-of-the-air-of-the-air-of-the-art budget for the country's airfield budget and maintenance. This is mainly the scene of the Reykjavík International Airport, the Eagle Island Airport. This will consider a report on the construction of the flying system and the implementation of national flights from 2018 and the opinions of more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee on the transport program 2020-2024. These are important suggestions in connection with the construction of the backup flight system. The financing of the whole aircraft system has been in a lot of noise for over a decade after the end of the current reserves, reminding me of mid - 2011. At that time, a new and maintenance capital was reduced by four times, and a situation of great superiority was created thereafter. Now we look to a better future in connection with these matters. This proposal is to celebrate, and in detail, I support the future. The financial agenda will take over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u35	A respectable president. The government groups are here to agree with a financial programme that is not facing a medical emergency. That's a fact. The amount of money available to the health system does not match physical growth, so major institutions, such as the Landsaholics and others, will find it difficult to keep on the disappeared process, let alone get out of the current business. It is evident that in 223 C.E., although all of us know that the basic health - care system is a failure of their means, there is no financial support for the development of nursing homes. With the approval of this budget, the government is confirming. This was not the basis for their promise of a health - care campaign. The plan shows black to health and financial secretary's words that there is no budget for the hospital to repair health problems. We in the United States will not support this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u36	A respectable president. The budget is intended to create a financial frame for the next four years, and I can't see that this plan is to achieve the objective of this decision and it seems to me that we're not going to cover income or pay frame in this four-year plan, and I just wanted to mention the good state of the Lands Hospital in this case. A simple calculation of the hospital's plans shows that there is a need to grow by 2% per year and that means the lack between eight and 9 billion during this period, so that this financial plan does not reflect the reality we see at this point and that restoration will not support this strategy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u37	Tastes, Bjarni Benediktsson. A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to thank the Commission for an excellent cooperation, especially as a result of the changes the government made to the Commission here at the end of the Senate, thereby showing a very rich desire to add weights to the scales to counteract the impact of inflation on the interests of households and companies in the country. And when this financial plan is examined in general, there are only quite a bright time ahead. I hear as usual, many senators complain that there are not enough on the charge side as others said there are an underlying tail. That's why I want to be raised taxes, but then, in the next word, they got ideas about spending all the new incomes the taxes were supposed to be done, you should be in charge of a new budget. Of course, there's no end to talking about spending money here, but the main thing is that we're building a strong community. We're looking for the basics, and we're doing it in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u38	A respectable president. The government there is often criticized for campaign law, and expenses are increasing, which are a popular project for popular projects, just before elections and a round of applause, and all good. But then there is the other side of the problem, and it is less popular, it needs to gain income or adjust, and that side is probably left for the next government. This criticism, and it's not available in Iceland, it's known in most democratic countries. However, I don't remember until now that the government has directly published a declaration of policy at the beginning of the terms of which it will continue to collect debt and leave the whole problem in the arms of the next government, as if to form business schemes, it has been pointed out, as to the formation of the economy's organizations, as to produce BHMs have been to point out. It is difficult to find such parallels in other Western countries, and if this is a comparison, it should be the comparison that no one should boast about. I just think that's one story. It's a lack of motivation, but it's a project. It's putting on this debt to the next government, and we know who gets that assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u39	A respectable president. I am deeply worried about it when it comes to the highest. Secretary of finance comes up in a pit and talks about what's good. However, there is no connection with reality here in a financial program designed to complete and finance ministers of the highest level. says that the foundation of the community is being self-sustained and at the same time we're getting reports that health professionals are burning out and leaving midwives work. They disappear, nurses are going to do other jobs, they're just leaving the hospital and clinics in the country, and they're building financial resources, and people are burning out. Young people don't get housing, they don't get into the housing market, but these problems are never somehow possible while Minister of finance. Thinks it's all going well and it's being thought to build up sustainableally and refuse to finance these foundations that need so much funding and I'm worried about the future. President. When I'm at the highest. Secretary of finance and the government are so far out of touch with reality and what's happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u40	A respectable president. Here we are votes for small changes that are very important. We are talking about 3.5 billion a year for the next four years in hospital service. We're talking about 300 million to the U.S.A., and we're talking about 10 billion a year over the next four years for disability, money that they've already received long ago, and could have been divided into a little trouble, which they now have had. At one time, a contract was made with an elderly and a dollar against a dollar's impairment when it was taken but the microchip was left behind. I've saved tens of billions of dollars this time. We're asking them to return. That's an article for votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u41	President. A respectable president. There is a need to reorganize the income market. We are going to run a welfare society that depends on our name. The position is clear, and it is presented in a committee study and a basic one. The problem cannot be solved by some single adjustment proposal from the smaller parts, which, of course, will all be resolved, as we believe it is important to talk about the financial agenda taking place in the big film until the next year, so we decided not to expand our measures on details that, in fact, the government itself and the administrative sector has not been able to expand. In many places you can find unassigned income and expenses in this program, e.g. magazines are tens of millions of adjustments that were made in a subsequent discussion. It doesn't even go down on business expenses or investment expenditures, so it's in such a way that we're not going to play this game. The vote is about to come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u42	Hv. paritaprevir On the other hand, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson missed the train. I don't know the rule of saying, "Hey, how about we make this work?" paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson speaks and explains his vote. A respectable president. Before the adjustment of the major part was made, we may have responded to the perplexing comments. Then perhaps it would be necessary to meet the health problem, even if only to cope with the necessary physical growth caused by aging, population growth, and the weight of nursing, and I thought, perhaps in view of the highest statement. The secretary for the expansion of housing, the construction of 4,000 apartments each year, and the proposed national and rural conventions, that it be removed from the cut down on housing. Yes, or perhaps a systematic limp on the operation of services to disabled persons would be adjusted to some extent. But, no, if anything, the government has only hardened its budget, policy towards public service. That's what we see here, making adjustments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u43	President Leví Gunnarsson's man is an interesting move by the greater part. They are some of these ways to keep suggestions about the situation, but most of it is actually just to take away money, for example. Investments that would not have been used anyway, so there is really no support. Swimming pool, weird. Then there are measures to prevent inflation that are directly involved in raising inflation. The analysis that the centennial costs raise inflation by 0.2% is such a weird bag of mixture, as I said before, an irrefutable way to achieve the objective of government policy. There's no policy here. That's what we're talking about. Is a precipitous response to a situation that goes and goes, not a government policy as if it were to appear in a financial program, now that the government can't decide, we're going to get something really the biggest financial plan yet, which is nothing but a salad can be expressed on what it can do here or there and so on. But no decision is missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u44	A respectable president. We know which groups are the most vulnerable to rising housing costs, rising fuel costs of food, the most efficient people. The problem is that the main part of the government would like to be taken by the same group, which comes from an increasing phase of maintenance. These are the pricing taxes that rise, the taxes that weigh proportionately on the most industrialized people, not the taxes that go on the income and the wealthiest. And where are e.g. A whale trawler? The taxes at the highest. The minister of culture and commerce said that the rest of the advance party was fighting for the increase in fishing costs. There's no way to slow down the tax drive in the public service business and there on the cut-off knife landing, and it's just super bad government money, political bitch we can't support.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u45	But for his vote, a respectable president, here in this table, the review for the public, it is seen that the adjustment of the proposals we have been offering to the council and have become suggestions for more part of the legal committee will stop the compromise so that it is only wrong to show in the discussion today that the problem will be addressed to the future. That is exactly what it says to the public's overall workforce. It will be in balance at the end of the programme period, and this is to offer specific suggestions that are relevant to all in Iceland in order to reduce inflation and achieve a healthy debt ratio. We're reducing the debt status of the government by a total of 3 percent compared to the previously proposed score. Well, that's only 100 billion, that's not about 80 billion in this case, 80 billion less debt. Here, responsible suggestions are being offered that produce real results in a living - standard society that remains.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u46	A respectable president. It has been a few weeks since the General Assembly took counter measures to cope with inflation. At that time, several billion were put, e.g. in a hurry to increase the social security payments, raise rent payments. I think that on the one - on - one pensions, the children's benefits, and the housing benefits, I remember it was two, three billion. Now it is suggested that the measures taken are just higher than those of cats on the bed. 3 billion. So this is so random, so random, it's these consumer taxes. This operation will address the precise groups to protect against the inflation of the package we just finished here a few weeks ago. There is no harmony in this economic politics in this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u47	A respectable president. In terms of part of our community's financial strategy, we will continue to see surgery on the back door. It is the failure of the welfare of the country's population to move to rural areas, resulting in a decline in the account of many rural communities, and it has been reported to be up to 17 billion dollars. has been missing in a case group of disabled people during the course of 2018-2020 in order to carry out legal duties. Interestingly, despite the fact that these estimates are available, there is no way to reduce the underdevelopment of the category of financial programs. The European Union of Iceland, alone with its member countries, reportedly lost the largest part of the country's range of 1,2503 billion annually. In rural society, the NAPA treats people who are largely unfashionable in terms of the coverts of their service and creates difficult pressures on their rural communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u48	This affects both the investment capacity of rural society, the scope of legal roles, and, above all, the impact on non-statutory activities of rural society that are truly important, all of which are primarily cultural, sports, and indeed, affecting the quality of life of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u49	A respectable president. If the advance party means something with the message of investing in people and improving child service, and if left greens really want to handle the climate problem and increase the equation in Iceland, these groups cannot sign up on this financial agenda. It's just that way. If the government means something with the big words of a government contract to bring in investors in the future, big-time service, this and this, the classes cannot support a financial program that weakens their consumption and keeps our health service, our social services, our schools, and the welfare system in a straitjacket. What the side of the income is completely broken. The members of the board of directors are making fun of the government's treaties and all the high - sounding declarations of the Ministers when the members of the council agree to this program. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u50	A respectable president. Because of words at the top. Secretary of finance, I feel compelled to come up here and say: It is a political decision to underestimate the health system and other infrastructures. The amount of money available to the health system is not merely an expense. It is an investment in people's health, and the government is working on it, funding the health system, and caring for these responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u51	Mr. President. Old Granny wanted to keep it here in Guðmundur's house? What? I must have kept seconds. Here is a vote for a large language, a complete review of communication laws that are commonly under the title of the chorus. It is important that national legislation has to do with technology development and contribute to the progress of investments, competition, economic coordination and consumer protection. The bill also considers national security interests. The bill contains a number of new indicators that are designed to facilitate and improve government facilities to assess the success and reform in the legal environment of communications and to carry it out on a regular basis as well as on the future. This is an important law of law, as we rapidly sail into the fourth industrial revolution, shape our lives for the long future. It's an important step to complete this important bill now in third attempt.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u52	President. That's what happened to you. Friðbertsson That's the third time the matter's been submitted. It is sometimes considered that they are improving at each donation, as we can expect them to do faster at third donation than others, first of all. But this case is so well illustrated, although it has been discussed twice before, we needed a lot of visitors, a lot of work, and a large part of the environment and transportation committees are under way. This is the way it will be until we allow Congress to live between legislatures. We cannot somehow be selected things to pass between legislatures and to pretend that they can give us some quicker approach to matters when I would like to thank the committee and the concierge for giving the case the space needed because it was tempted to go that fast. But we did not take the dust by hand with a language that is, in most cases, very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u53	My nominees as a smaller part of the environment and transport committee, I have certain doubts about 83rd. to set them up for a telecommunications company to accept the implementation of technical monitoring and services to order a network security unit. This is a law of law, but it is absolutely necessary to take in deeper opinions and to see if the motive of such a decision should be taken so far as to see whether the possible consequences of justice are equal to the authority's direct access to telecommunications equipment. I think for consumers, for people who use these communications devices, the idea that some external equipment is in machines, hall, those who are supposed to secure communication might be a little awkward. I hope someone at the Ministry is watching us and maybe scratching his head over this and checking it out at the next semester.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u54	Mr. President. 3 mg. 89st. is a general and immense obligation to a telecommunication company to keep information throughout the six months of all Iceland's communications campaigns. This is done for the sake of research and was put in to the request of police at the time, but comparable rules in Europe, from which this idea has developed, well, may not be a problem when it comes to the European Court's idea of privacy comes up with the idea of personal protection. All of this has developed in those years, but this law came into operation. Pirata's senators have proposed to cancel this was done a few years ago of freedom of expression. The prime minister suggested that it be eliminated because it can be such a dangerous tool. On the basis of this information, you can draw an amazingly accurate picture of the private life of every Iceland in the wrong hands, that information dangerous. This is a law that must be revised, although the will of a body of Congress is not immediately canceled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u55	Mr. President. Just before then, the House of Congress did not agree to resign from Article 3. 89st. 3 mg 89st. The law. But what about reevaluating it? How about laying down on it from personal protection and privacy of privacy, depending on the nature of some of these information but some species being kept shorter than others, that it is considered possible to bind it in some groups with some areas such as countries? This is an out - of - date provision that has long come to be considered in terms of the evolution of human rights, the development of expression freedom, privacy, and personal protection in the last decades or decades. My suggestion in this adjustment is that it is strange that it is not even impossible to get through thinking that it would be too much to consider a set of requirements that have come from the evolution of human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u56	A respectable president. I recommend to the environment and transport committee for a bill for changing the law on rural income, No. 4/1995, on account of contributions from the property fund of rural society. The bill is submitted by the Ministry's request for the project sliding up Iceland. The purpose of the project is to improve the availability of motor disasters to services, shops and restaurants in Iceland by surfaces or other means by ensuring access. The aim of the project is to build 1,000 rifts across the country over the next four years, but it is an important equality issue that requires that the government contributes to its support. In this cause it should also be mentioned, which all the committee agreed to accept in the request of the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, and to present this case that the dignity of the Environment and Transport Committee has often taken up under its own initiative to call attention to the bioavailability issues of motor disasters. So it was easy to see that the committee would contribute this way, but the property funds of rural society were established in connection with translocation of disabled persons from a state to a rural society on January 1, 2011. In fact, the role of the fund was taken over rights and duties related to property owned by the State, which had been used to minister to disabled people. At the same time, the fund took over property, rights, and the duties of the disabled who was laid down the property of the fund is thrown into the Slurpee Fund, and its role and goals are laid down in this 13th chapter. No. 4/1995. With law No. 9/2018 was a law on farm incomes altered property funds, assigned to provide rural donations because of building up or changes in property used to minister to disabled people who have great or specific support needs by law No. 37/2020, on the change from law to economic impacts following a pandemic crown and that the role of television further expands, it also employs rural contributions due to reforms in disabled persons' activities, particularly in the availability of property, manpower and rural areas, in view of the fact that contributions due to the Iceland project are not going directly to some rural society where projects will not involve the setting up of the property only or areas owned by rural communities as planned. First and third mg. The above 13 pars. b A law on farm income is necessary to submit this bill. With the bill, the property treasure fund of rural society will be given clear legal authority to provide annual contributions because of projects up to 50 million. K. For a total of four years. Hence, it is not required that certain rural society or real estates, workers, or rural outdoors be brought to the fore. It is obligatory that this warrant is not obligatory, and it is assumed that the contributions will be based on the Member States' agreement with those outside the project and that in such agreements the rights and responsibilities of parties will be addressed. I also think it is right to thank you for this important project and to us on the Honourable Environment and Transport Committee will continue to monitor this project as well as any other aspects of this project and record these. A principle also involved monitoring of such structure and other factors and how this can be made easier, and it also appeared in committee discussions that it is important for the rural communities and public members to be responsible in their places and guaranteed access. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of this bill and suggested that after this discussion the bill be directed to the second discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u57	A respectable president. I recommend here on behalf of the professional road committee for a bill to legalize the law of No. 7 Yes, 2021 About Changes in Electrical Laws, No. 65/2003, and the national institution law hf. No. 75/2004 for the maintenance of a business transport. The bill is presented to delay entry into the possession of National Reactivation, Raiks and Energy Agency Reykjavík, and the Energy Company of the Landsnet to the Icelandic State and/or rural society estimated in the law of No. 74/2021 would be completed by July 1. It is clear that this time goal will not be reached, but if the bill is that the law has time to complete the work on the transfer of a national network without legal uncertainty. However, in the absence of law, the bill is expected to be legally unsure, e.g. on the information of the stocks, expeditation of stocks, as well as the credit trust of the citizens who now own a share in a national network. The bill includes the condition that the national network should be directly owned by the Icelandic government and/or rural society should not be performed until December 31st of the next June 1. This also involves the removal of 2nd mg. 2 mg. Section 4. the legislation on the establishment of the Landsnet, and for temporary consumption of the 12 provisional regulations of the 12 provisional regulations of the electronic law, will be delayed in a similar way directly related to the changes in Landsnet ownership. A respectable president. I have now explained the main points of this bill and suggested at the end of this discussion that the bill is going directly to the second discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u58	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill of the Economic and Business Commission for a change in income tax law, No. 90/2003, expiration, stress and green possessions and more. The bill makes adjustments on income tax laws. One is added to the 21st floor. The law intended to eliminate uncertainty following the decision of the head taxation committee in case of No. 42/2022, involved in the elimination of a private part of society that was paid with possessions other than money. However, this is an adjustment of regulations for temporary 70 in terms of expiration, the pressures of green possessions by the change. In 1st. it is prescribed the principle that employment transfers should be paid to the level of price agreed by non-particees. Under here, you fall, even. the cases where payment is not money, but in such circumstances a profit or loss should be determined, as with the sale of the assets in the front row, e.g. we are the new holdings of the industry as payments to meet commitments to owners because of the decision to make general distributions, the reduction of capital, or the wear and tear, or other causes. As a result, if an arm length is used, the potential price of possessions is greater or less than their taxable taxation in those to be assigned to set profits or losses by the rules of income taxation for sale prior to distribution and the same applies to owners' assessment, where the decision for distribution is not formally made. As mentioned earlier, this particular change is shown here in Article 1. Suggested to respond to a recent decision by the head tax adviser, where tax-employment agent was tested when the Icelandic company, which had a 23.15% share, which was reported to have a body registered in Taiwan, islands where a mother's company in Luxembourg, was supposed to end the Icelandic company with payment to the Luxembourg Corporation in the form of a company trader and a government tax manager, and a binding opinion was provided as it came to the approval of the exchange of the object as a sale should be decided by the Icelandic company's taxpayer rather than the head of the tax office. The Commission concluded that this distribution should not be considered a tax exchange that would result in tax reform in the hands of the Icelandic company. In any case, there is a reversal of the current tax interpretation and implementation, and the conclusion of the head taxation committee may remain unchanged that the state may be made of taxation by partners and the distribution of their assets to shareholders, but this bill suggests that it will be decided in a very decisive way in Article 21. income tax laws that deal with the sale of payment should determine profits or losses the same way as if the property had been sold to non-biblished parties, including the assessment of owners. If we take them to 2nd. This bill is about the change in expiry, pressures on the stock prices of environmentally friendly possessions and contributes to sustainable development. We suggest that we put the facts at hand. 1.mg. will be inserted there, but it was for the centre released from the bill of text to the Council of 151th legislation, as per Article 1172, 399. Institutions require an expiration period of 2 mg. The arrangement for temporary 70th, includes the same property as 1 mg. includes. It's cash. Count 1 33. The law, so it can't reach other assets. This suggests a conclusion of 8 mg. disintegration, but there is no need for any changes made in the 7 mg dose. The article in the Parliament's treatments when the conditions for the failure of a taxpayer to be in financial need were resolved. This is what the Economic and Business Committee said is for a second discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the European Environment and Transport Committee for Committees in case 332, a proposal for the interpretation of a national protection and energy prevention programme, which is generally called a frame plan. The committee discussed the matter, was contacted by many people, and received almost 50 reports. Visitors and references are given to the above mentioned in the Committee. At the outset, I would also like to thank the members of the board for their own cleanness and good discussions and fine work on the committee, which is important in the outworking of this matter. It could be discussed on a wide scale, taking time to do so. The nominee is detailed, as it suggests, leaving this much discussion and a great review as I could about it, and I believe it is right to review the main points taken into consideration by the Committee's review and to be guided by the making of changes. The committee generally discussed a frame plan as a control device. The majority of the material stresses the implementation of a protection and energy efficiency programme, i.e. Frame plan, is not the only control device for energy management in Iceland. A Ramma plan is one of many pieces, and it is not until all of it is realized that the overall picture of the efficiency of energy resources that we have, whether in the context and interaction of energy issues or the challenges we face in climate. It is then important to identify where the activation and protection of the Framework Programme is, i.e. At the present rate of activation into a colony is a number of years ahead, with assessments of the environmental impact of the project, structural change and the license process of both state and rural society. Therefore, the activation of a specific activation option is not planned until some year after the option to be classified into a novelty class, as if the final order of activation to the colony class does not necessarily mean that the activation option will be undertaken. The proposed proposal has been submitted three times before by the General Assembly and has not been decommissioned from a Senate committee and to a subsequent discussion until now. The majority believe that the delay of the case is partly due to a large number of activation options in one suggestion, many of which are extremely controversial. In this context, the Commission has discussed whether it would be better for priming to come to the Senate's payment on a smaller proposal at a time so that discussions about each option may be more effective. It has been suggested that such an option could lead to a complete view of all the initiatives in this country to a loss and a risk of not seeing the overall context of all activations. However, the Committee's review has shown that the methodology for the evaluation of the task management as a basis for the activation of efficiency ensures that all benefits are obtained, including those adopted by the General Assembly by Congress, are weighed together. A greater part is worth considering whether such arrangements would make the process more efficient and more rapid. The Committee discussed the Alduke's warrant for a change in proposal for Congress resolution on a Framework Programme. It is important to keep in mind that the law says how to work on the administrative level and until the case is committed to the Council. The General Assembly is no more than a minister bound by the proposals of the project and can make adjustments to the existing proposal for Congress. It has been stated that by suggesting changes in existing proposals for the classification of activation initiatives, the scientific methodology that led to the findings presented in the Council Report is being suspended. In view of the greater part, the importance of this methodology is not to be minimized; it is primarily to respond to the criticism made of part of the proposed proposal that it is important to determine the true impact of activation on natural conditions. A greater portion will then be considered as having to consider other factors that were not seen when the project regime returned its proposal to a minister in its time. These include Iceland's commitment to climate change, energy exchange, and energy independence. In view of the greater part, it is clear that these commitments cannot be made unless there is increasing renewable energy, but they may include better use of the new resources, greater power transport capacity throughout the country and less loss of energy in the system, saving and increasing energy efficiency. In view of this, the more part contributes to some change in existing proposals that I will consider below. It should be noted that changes in activation options previously agreed by the General for the protection or use of the European Parliament are not being made. The committee then discussed the data that the project management evaluation based on, but it has been criticized for their years and has been evaluated to some extent out - of - date. There have been changes in international context from the fact that a project administration gave its proposals, e.g. increased emphasis on the protection of the uninhabited countries as well as the debate over energy security and the need for the concentration of the public system has increased. In view of the greater part, it is important that new data, plans, and emphasis be used to produce the government's energy policy and climate targets and changing focus on nature protection, such as in the larger areas, be guided by the decision on the classification of activation options. Therefore, the greater part concluded to suggest that specific activation options and areas will be replaced by a series of protective groups and other implementations of temporary use to achieve a new evaluation on the basis of new data and in the context of the Government Treaty, external circumstances and their development, both national and international. In addition, at the same time it is necessary to create reconciliation for such changes and to bring about a balance between protection and innovation. The Commission discussed the necessary review of the legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme, but this review is based on a review in the Government Treaty with the aim of ensuring responsible and practical use and protection of initiatives in Iceland. At that review, it is essential to establish trust in the process of a frame plan, to eliminate suspicion and to increase agreement on individual activation options and the basis for its use and protection. Then there are some points that the committee feels strongly that a special review of the law will be made to account for them in the committee's opinion. The majority of these points specifically to the position of activation in the surface of the ground because of the rules of the law. According to 1st mg. Section 5. track No. 48/2011 falls into a waiting category of activations, which are thought to have to provide further information on the need to evaluate on the basis of points presented in 4 mg. Section 3. whether or not they should join an energy party or a protection party. 3 mg. Section 5. it is noted, however, that it is permitted to provide access to energy research and to engage in non-authorized energy research because of late activation initiatives for which environmental assessments are not subject. In the case of bioactivation studies, laboratory studies that may depend on environmental impact, e.g. To provide the necessary information on the areas to be available during the evaluation of project management and trade groups at the relevant activation option The law can therefore prevent such projects from being carried out as a waiting factor and therefore cannot be investigated and develop the activation option as necessary. Meanwhile, the option is fixed to a waiting party. The Commission points to the need to review the separation of the protection areas of the activation ideas and land that fall into a reservation, but it is urgent to eliminate the uncertainty that has been raised in their areas. At the same time, it is proper for the Minister to initiate work on the assessment of the peaceful light of well - watered water sources, including a number of disturbed and unmanned lakes in Iceland, the need for their whole peace descriptions, instead of the impact of individual activations, the position of such peace reports today, and the number of renewables. There will also be the size criteria for the activation and access of the Power Agency to hide the task management on their own initiatives to deal with activation initiatives, but both have been accepted. The legal environment of wind power also needs to be explained, but as shown in the Treaty, new laws on the use of wind are aimed at putting in place. A discussion of the Framework Programme has concluded that there is a regular need for reevaluation of the individual activation categories available by the General of Congress due to new and better information, changing technology, and other variable factors that may affect the classification of activation options. In accordance with the laws on the protection and energy efficiency programme, the task management on its own may re-evaluate or re-evaluate the activation or region of the current programme and suggest changes in it. The majority feel that there is a need to consider specifically what the process and the reason for such reevaluation of the project management should be in the light of prospective criticism and what it takes to perform such an evaluation. In addition, the committee discussed activation options in the Shivering River, which are in the protective category according to the existing proposal and does not consider the majority of them to be a reason for making changes. However, the majority stress the need to request their protection areas against energy efficiency until the assessment of the cognition of well-burning water is completed and the protection and energy efficiency laws have been reviewed. At the same time, the majority direct to the minister that the separation of the Swamp River's reservation will be introduced to the Commission before leaving the reservation's peaceful light. The majority suggest a few adjustments in the proposal. First, it is suggested that the activation initiatives proposed for the evaluation of the Commission that the Agency's initiative will be eliminated from the proposal. A package leaflet with the Committee's opinion is provided with a list of these advantages. In addition, the committee's opinion contains a picture where the benefits have been transferred to a map of Iceland. Second, there is a change in the reference to The Devil's century. The activation option is located in the middle of the country and in close proximity to the peace-installed territory of Lake Bay National Park. The previously mentioned advantages of the Enzyme Agency are set up in the central area but, in view of the greater part, it is important to look to landscapes in the highlands for a decision to use the land. In view of this and increasing emphasis on the protection of the wild countries and on the value of the heart of the highlands, it is suggested that the option be transferred to a waiting schedule. Thirdly, a change in Holta activation and in lower part Iactivation is proposed. Comments received by the committee that in the vicinity of the lower part of the winter, it is suggested that large intensification ideas are inadverted. The majority of the co-ordinates are considered necessary to suggest that the activations Holtation and Urrasocactivation will be classified into a waiting category until a discussion of the community effect of the intended in-house activation should be completed on the basis of a new approach in the field of practice 3 and 4 procedures. The majority of these points point out that it is important to watch the lower part of During the course as a unit, so it aims to minister and project management to look for all three activations in lower jaculations, Imaging, Holtar activation and Urra-deactivation, on that basis, although the greater proportion does not suggest that the activation of Iphreasivation will be induced from a waiting party. Fourth, a change in the wind - power economy is proposed to Burgundy. In the existing motion, he is classified as a waiting party with the argument that he is in a damaged area with little protection value, but his influence on tourism and outdoors is high. The reviews indicated that the option did not have the extensive impact on tourism on which the pro-group 2 results were based. In view of the greater part, it is important to look at the cohesive effects produced in energy efficiency near hydropower activation, i.e. there is an opportunity to improve the use of existing medium greens. Then, in a sense, the power of the wind is unknown, so there is sound evidence to the greater part of the belief that wind power parks are built in areas already operating by hydropower companies. The majority stress that the desired activation option is in the hands of a public company, is an area that is already disturbed and has a low protection value, and that the development of the activation option has led to a visual impact considerably lower than originally anticipated. This will include up to 120 MW activation instead of 200 MWs. The majority of Member States are entitled to the same activation initiative as agreed on the project management, however, the development of the activation option has led to the change in implementation as observed. The majority suggest that the four activation initiatives in the Shire Lakes will be taken from a protective group to a waiting party. The Committee's review of the proposed proposal for action has shown the need to re-evaluate the work programme on these benefits and the areas of which they belong. The opinion was presented to the committee that the strong negative impact of the intended fortresses in the province's Lakes in Skavera was given to saves with considerable protection values, especially diffusions, may be overrated. In view of the greater part, it is important to make decisions on the classification of activation options for a protection class or category based on the best available information on the territory and the impact of planned implementation on the environment and on the environment. Therefore, uncertainty about the real effect of the activation option on the target parameters in the region must be deleted before deciding whether to enter a protection party or a colony. The Commission reviewed that the priming option had not received an adequate consideration of professional groups. The activation provider, in his review, points out that there is not the same activation option as North American Vegetarian as in the current programme, is classified as a protection party. It is not clear how the activation option has the same effect as that of the Norwegian dailies in the waters of the Þjórjörður. Then a task management decided that the activation option Kaläl köldun was not to be discussed and placed directly into a reservation without professional coverage. It should be noted that in a memo published by the Committee by the Environment, Energy, and Climate Organization of March 23, the Ministry does not agree with this driven position of the activation agent and that the activation option has received adequate attention to professional groups. The majority of them believe that it is important to have doubts that the priming options desired for adequate treatment should be adequately treated according to the rules of the law. So the majority suggest that the option be classed to a waiting party and directed to the minister that he ensures that he will receive the professional treatment required by the law. Finally, the larger part is directed to Minister to reevaluate the three priming options suggested to move out of the waiting category and the five priming options proposed to move from a waiting category will be accelerated in the management of the Framework Programme. This will focus on the development of the government's preparation, and in case, end a peace-depth environment which is a reason for a peace report on energy efficiency under the programme's protection category, cr. 4 mg. Section 6. legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme. Otherwise, we're going to point out a more detailed discussion of the change-in in terms of the greater portion. I also want to follow this review to thank the Committee again and to decide how important a step that is if we can deliver a frame plan from the General Assembly, but such a whole plan has not been adopted since 2013. This is an important step, also an important step in maintaining the process of the framework. I'm glad that the Environmental and Transport Committee has managed to replace this committee's perspective and is hoping that the General will do the same. That would be a big step on this case. As noted, this is one piece of many, but very important to continue and also to review the law and review this process after it has taken this one pass after the law last changed. According to the above, a greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee contributes to the approval of the proposal with the changes made and proposed in a special Senate document. In addition to such articles, under the heading "Apprehensible Writings. " Councilmen Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Ingibjörg Isaksen, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Orri Páll Jóhannsson. Then Jakob Frímann Magnússon, an officer on the committee, agrees with the opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u60	Madam President. I recommend here the opinion of the 1st minor part of the environment and transport committee that is currently signed by the one listed here. For visitors and the number of references to the proposal, please refer to the introduction of the Committee on Environment and Transport. Law No. 48/2011 is equal to Article 1. They will ensure that the implementation of regions for activation is based on long-term trends and the overall basis of interest assessments, which will take into account the protection of nature and cultural memory, efficiency and interest of different national products and values, as well as those that use these same benefits with sustainable development as a guide. A national protection and energy saving programme, a framework plan, is therefore a government assessment and planning tool, a framework of whether, where, and how electricity is obtained in Iceland. In this context it is important to bear in mind that a framework does not use to define energy needs in this country and that its payment at the Council does not guarantee an increase in electricity production for energy exchange, as some claim. It will only be done by needed changes in electrical law. As reported, the third stage of this proposal is now submitted to the fourth time at the Council. First, it was submitted in 2016, but since 2017, the end of 2017, the move team, the Independence Party, and the left movement have produced a cohesive government that has not reached political solidarity to complete the 3rd stage until now. In view of the high nature protection interest that the majority intends to double the price, the price of the change would be accepted. A number of years delay in the recovery of the 3rd stipulation of the Framework Programme has damaged general coverage of it in more than one way. On the one hand, the delay has been a new factor in speaking down the value of such a strategy as a good tool to control the development of energy sources on the land. On the other hand, attitudes toward individual activation initiatives and the environmental protection issues that are also underpinn to develop, without exception, the value of the value of the natural world that could have been increased. It is my hope that the fourth stage of a work programme for protection and efficiency will be submitted to the General Assembly at the next leg of legislation. It should also be said that the views expressed in the opinion of the greater part would improve the risk of reducing the benefits for the General Assembly in each phase. The proposals for the project management of the fourth and fifth stages and the number of options may be reduced, and this may simplify and speed up the future situation. This too is to be done in harmony with the law of No. 48/2011, for the protection and energy efficiency programme, the proposals of the project management are not binding for Ministers. The law stipulates how to work on the administrative level until the proposal is submitted to the General Assembly. Hence, the General is not bound by the proposals of a project administration, nor can any proposal to make changes to the existing Parliamentary decrees. Of course, the proposals to make changes need to be dealt with with objective reasoning, but the payment of each phase and the final order of the costs to a protection, waiting, or novelty is in the fullest sense the responsibility of the General Assembly. It's been over a decade since the implementation of the law and the timing and the wisdom of a review of legislation in the light of experience, including with regard to the growing relevance of nature protection, increased scientific knowledge, and other pitfalls of stakeholders, such as measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the development of tourism as basic work systems in this country. The first few areas of memory disagree with more part of the Environment and Transport Committee on the need to postpone a peace-advising process because of certain costs offered by the Preservation Programme until the laws under discussion have been reviewed. It refers to the activation initiatives: Quick-knuckle activation and Hafnarfjörður activations A, B, and C in the Shivering River. The delay of the peace description process would undermine the role of these protection stakes, as well as the credibility of the process. Special attention should therefore be given to the agreement between the Environment and Transport Committee that benefits laid down by the Energy Agency should be called back and removed from the waiting schedule. This is an advantage that no one has requested of, including for activation initiatives in the Torfajökul area, in salmon fishing in the East, etc., according to an illustration in the Committee to cover much of the region. There are 28 activation options, either for use of water sources or for earth's heat, to which the Energy Institute appointed a project administration on the basis of a source in the 2011 law. This change in basic work plans for the future. At any rate, it is my opinion that although there are many legal warrants, it is unnatural that the Power Institute should recommend this. It is normal for an enterprise to implement the benefits and then go to an assessment procedure. In view of these changes and what happens when these benefits are taken out, the Commission's list of words, with the permission of the President, states that the protection initiative against energy efficiency in the same area can be reported to be followed by a level of precipitating. In other words, it hasn't been possible, so I'm trying to explain my case here. So we solve this problem, i.e. to avoid allowing any other benefits or geographic location to be declared peaceful for other reasons. As to the outstanding activation options considered here in the 3rd stage of the frame, I shall now discuss in very brief terms. I support the modification proposal that the activation option Stockholm, which is classified as the utilisation of this frame stage, will be moved to a waiting party. Therefore, the evidence is most likely thatlasta is in the middle of the country and close to the peace-infested region of Lakejörður. The committee agrees that in the middle of the country the landscape should be viewed as a landscape barrier in decision to use the land. Emphasis on the protection of the uninhabited countries is increasing, especially in view of the fact that approximately 40% of the total unorthodox areas in Europe can be found in Iceland. For Impulse reactivation, Holtization and Uryrofosactivation, the possible activation option in lower part I would like to say: Hv. The Environment and Transport Committee received a number of narratives due to activation options in lower part of Tubular wounds. The reviews of individuals and non-parties were to be all in common. By permission of the president, Eva Erlendsdóttir, read the following: It is said of being at peace, but peace with power is not a good thing. If they do not give up, a number of companions and individuals are still sitting in the hall and making comments on the same plans. These activations have not changed - and are referred to the subsections in the bottom part of Þräsvez - in the inhabited area. The battle for the inducers of During a Puberty is a human rights matter. Clearly, many of the people at the lower part of Dura are far from satisfied with the proposed applications in the region, and they tireless after years of fighting against the Plans for Hamps, Holta, and Urician insurgents. It is now estimated that the thin sin of a salmon stock considered to be unique on a global scale. In the cooperation of the government class, it is noted specifically that a framework should be carried out with the inhabitants in the operating areas of activation. A step must therefore be taken in the correct direction to suggest a greater degree that the benefits of Holtic activation and Uryrofos activation will be stratified into a waiting category until discussion of the social effects of the proposed activation of near society will be completed on the basis of a new approach in the field of practice 3 and 4 procedures. However, the first memory will want to go further and with the same argument support the proposal that it will be presented here, and it will treat the case, that the whale activation will be replaced by a waiting party, as it can be said that these three activations stick together in the company's plans. With regard to Burgundy, they are organized to a waiting party in the existing motion, reasoning that it is in a damaged area with a low protection value, but its impact on tourism and outlying is strong. Comments on the proposals indicate that the effects of the Swamps may be less frequent on tourism than previously thought. It should be thought that the area is particularly suitable for wind generation, as well as for the interaction between wind and water sources: Land activation in the region and the experience gained by building wind power plants close to ligands and transport lines. Thus, the one listed here is to bring this advantage to a group of innovations, as the greater part suggests, but the main reason is that land induction is owned by the public in the country and pays interest to the State Fund. I believe that when we begin with a new option, such as the wind power, a company owned by the public in the country should be placed in the front, and the knowledge and stroke force there should be used to win this proposal. We cannot begin in wind - power activation without putting down a legal framework for the resource use and the resources spent as private companies who are very interested in the use of wind energy in this country will have to pay for future government funds. This frame must be available before continuing further. The current resistance to the conversion proposal for the majority of the segments suggested that the four activations in the Shire Lakes, Rotting Strategic Enforcement C, Rotting Enforcement D, Wilding Insecture and Blendment in the Westari-Jagisé will be reassigned to a waiting party. It is my opinion that there has not been an adequate cause for this change and there is no uncertainty about the actual negative effects of the activation of water fields, natural hazards, and landscapes. There's a possibility that the protection value of the ecosystems is high. For this reason, I also want to show that the review of the Group of Travellers pointed out that the Lakes of the Shire, including the river glacier in Skavetir, are very important for tourism in the province of Chefur. There are companies running skirmishers, including and are basic fields of work in the area. To be honest, I'm very concerned that this proposal will be adopted here at the High Council, and I've been able to see it through. Residents Andrés Ingi Jónsson and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir moved the adjustment proposal to make the changes in the majority of parts suggested that the benefits of Lakes remain in the province, as well as those of the Kulldunmata. There is no grammatical argument but that these benefits will remain there. The first part of the memory will support the transport of the activation initiatives Tubular activation, Hollatic activation and Urrasduction activation from a waiting class as previously observed, as well as the transport of the wind power source in Burgundy. It is very important to pay, Madam President, to look into the long term and to place the environmental value and the great value that we have in caring for this proposal in relation to our future interests. I have no doubt that the natural bulbs that we have managed to keep on guard so far, and hopefully they will continue to give us for a long time, perhaps not so hard money, of course, money, but it's the value of nature in itself that's really important. It is our task to protect and ensure that the operators of this unique Icelandic world will be able to bring it back to the future, preferably unsatisfactory. When we need to make use of it, we have to do it with caution and self-sustained use. This morning, members of Congress received a letter from the head of the National Protection Association of Iceland and the Land Protection, where it was reviewed in a fairly detailed way how much of the Committee has actually not provided enough evidence for this entry, i.e. To reroute the benefits of the Shire Lakes and the Reservational Cold into the waiting party. I got it. I got it. Councilmen to study the subject of these two organizations, which have been at the front of a natural struggle in the last few decades here. It is very important that we listen to these voices, and it is also very important that we learn from the bitter experience of the national nature protection struggle. Those of us so far back will know that when a frame plan was started and that one of the most difficult battles in Iceland's nature conservationists have faced in this country's history, it was the first battle against Eyjabian reactivation and then against Kálós disease. The second one was lost, as everyone knows, and it was in an attempt to cover this project and also in an attempt to heal the wounds that were opened up in society during that process and in fact the war that was then being fought over nature protection in Iceland, where a frame plan was placed on the ground and its stage won, which was approved here in 2013 as already noted. A major tool for government management is the Ramma plan. It sets, as indicated by the word, the box around where we're going to use the land for energy consumption and the region where we're going to coax energy. The law's review can be reasoned whether the time has come to reverse this reasoning, as it has been observed. In the case of the Land Guard, and in the view that the land is uncontaminated by activation unless otherwise indicated. Perhaps it is time for us to consider this approach now that we have a good 20 years into the 21st century and we are reaching out for the task of allowing a frame plan and her third stage to take its course in the hope that we can continue with the Fourth and 5th phase that once we enter the total legal accounting, we allow ourselves to rethink these things completely. I think it's more sound now than ever in our society and that we have everything to work and nothing to lose if we protect Iceland's nature, ecosystems and the immense value of the land we live in has brought to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u61	President. Here's my recommendation for Anti-Sacrifice 2. It's my share. Council proposals for resolution of a national protection and energy efficiency programme should be submitted according to the General Assembly at no less than every four years. The proposed proposal has been made three times a day. Senators know but have not been successful. Thus, there was no movement on the framework of every street since 2016. Of course, the greater part of the work could not have been won faster than in the light of the social interests involved. In effect, the credibility of a structured program is threatened by the slowness of the government. Of course, it is a joy to see that a strategy is finally being fulfilled. A strong theme in the reviews was an end to the fact that a frame plan would be adopted. Of course, there is a clear interest in energy exchange, energy sector, but first and last public in the country. A positive result is that for the first time, we are given effective initiatives in wind power. This is an important step. All recognize that the task is to achieve a healthy balance between innovation and protection. Future generations are threatened by climate change, and energy exchange is a fundamental factor in preventing them. The important goals and commitments of Iceland in climate change make energy change a priority. Similarly, action is needed for energy exchange. Increased access to renewables is needed which can be achieved by the better use of existing resources, the growth of the nation's distribution system, saving of energy and increasing energy efficiency. At the same time as the threat of climate change is growing awareness and emphasis on the importance and value of the unsettled world in which rich will and interests are protected. The goal of a stratospheric plan and the complex task of government is to achieve a balance between innovation and protection. It is of great importance to have clear guidelines and controls such as a frame plan to promote understanding and reconciliation in the community. The lesson of the past few years, then, must be better if fewer benefits are made in any suggestion for the treatment of the council. A lower share of the committee agrees with that the delay of the case can be attributed to a large number of activation options in one suggestion. In addition, many of these cost are very controversial. The benefits are great, and many are emotionally close. President. Time - consuming treatment of the case of the council has included Be criticized for some of the evidence that this decision has come to be on the minds of many years. There is a general problem with decision-making, but in this particular context, the vegetation that has been discussed in energy exchange and energy security since the introduction of available proposals. Another lesson is that an overall review of the protection and energy efficiency laws is timely to establish and further promote the ideological framework as a tool for protecting areas and energy efficiency. The legislation must be able to achieve the targets of energy security, energy-involved and sustainableity. At review, the primary objective must be to ensure professional work practices based on objective reasons for making decisions in the interests of the public interest. It is important, in view of 2 smaller parts, to make the most of the electrical energy produced in the current electrical operating areas prior to the implementation of new activations that have considerable environmental impacts. President. In view of the number of activation options the council has had for the treatment, 28 activation options are in a waiting frame schedule without the request of any recruiter to evaluate these options. These are activation options, which the Power Institute has assigned to the Commission to discuss, in accordance with the legal authority of the Agency. These activation options are classified as a waiting class primarily because there is insufficient data and information on the potential for activation. However, this has an impact on land use in these areas. The Power Institute was requested to reroute these specific activation options. How positive it was that the Power Institute was willing to do so and that by contributing to the Congress arrangement, they would be much simpler. The Council is under law not bound by the proposals of a project administration and can make changes to an existing proposal for Congress. This is an important point and the natural methodology. It is reasonable to conclude that a final decision is on the hands of those who bear political responsibility for it. The decisions presented here are inherently based on political overall assessments of interests to be weighed. Thus, in view of 2 less items, less is not taken as a matter of criticism, making adjustments to the existing proposals. However, the decisions made by the Council must be based on strong evidence for the sake of public interest. Project directors' proposals for activation are based on the judgment of professional groups appointed to experts and scientists. This work ethic will require rich demands for the council that change is thoroughly supported and clear on the basis and based on evidence. On the other hand, a certain adjustment in the development of much of the part is lacking. Change proposals for Lakes and U.S.I. are serious and unconvinced, but they aim for these benefits to be of a protection category, as will be considered below. Neither does it comment on how much electrical energy is transferred according to the modification requirement, i.e. how it affects the electricity generated by the changes made by most of the element. A high energy demand for energy exchange has been reported on by the Environment Minister, but there is no assessment of how these changes will be affected. Similarly, the practical efficiency of sectoral or national initiatives is not addressed. What effect will the government's goals regarding energy change have on us? Will the energy exchange become more expensive or less expensive when these changes occur? A fundamental requirement must be made that adjustments in the conduct of the Generals meet with regard to testing that they are thoroughly reasoned, that they are clear on the basis and, above all, that they are in the interest of the total interest rather than the interests of the greater. Respect for this important subject and the rich interests at stake can help us to see that adjustments are needed to be made and reasoned with. There's a 2.m lower estimate that most parts have failed their function seriously. With regard to the activation option The Lake Shire must point to the obvious, that there is a very weak argument behind it. The evidence here suggests that the political horse market of the government classes led to a conclusion completely contrary to expert professional judgment and will not be supported by a high level of public interest by going a different way than it was proposed. The proposal of the government is a review of the practices of the groups behind it, and a tragic final feature of the other more difficult work of the environment and transport authorities. The majority of the sector's coverage of KIG raises questions as well as the comments made on the majority of the part of the entry between classes. There is no evidence to explain what makes this needed again. Finally, comments are made in vague, misleading argumentation presented for the lower part of During the year; on the other hand, it is said to view the area as a whole and to direct recommendations to the minister and to the task management to look to all three activations in the lower part of During that period of evaluation. However, the majority of the primary components are to remain unchanged in the activation process. Under these circumstances, it must assume that the first paragraph is of limited importance, although the real objective of the majority is unclear. It cannot be the role of the Generals to pass a conclusion that does little more than create a legal assurance for all concerned persons. It has been observed from a point of view that energy companies are best used to produce electricity in existing operating areas. The panels from task management seem to have a basic policy based on the same point of view and the same approach. The majority are starting to deviate from these criteria without the possibility of strong evidence of a specific change, as previously attributed. It also does not comment on how much electricity is shifting between categories according to the modification proposals, how they react to the electricity provision of innovations for the changes made by the more part's changes or about the practical activations that move between classes or national effects. In view of these serious failings, 2 smaller things are not preprogrammed to support the above changes in the proposal made by the majority of them. On the other hand, we on the same side support and are cohesors for the change in the memory of the part due to the Pirates and the Conspiracy, which has been identified and will be explained later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u62	Mr. President. Where to begin? You may want to start by talking about how boring it is to see such a failure to see the tools being framed, a tool designed to make peace - it may be difficult to talk about reconciliation, but it is designed to create some kind of way to build a different perspective on the use of land areas where people want to build up the activated areas. This process is in itself a compromise between views that for decades have not been the same in Icelandic society. When I say they didn't mix up, it's almost without a doubt the impression of activationists has already been on top of the individual inducers. We now have a naturalist organization outside the General Assembly with their badges and are going to protest because this tool is being shredded up in the final meters. Looks like I've got a photocopy of the Danik that most of the thing goes to take care of a reservation - not the falls itself, no. It will wipe up Dynk; provide water to the Þrjórður Tungna in the area where land activation can turn Denk into money. In view of the fact that this is supposed to be a public enterprise, this tour is quite strange. It's supposed to be a public service company. But for half a century, it has been fighting to destroy the Red Sea to turn the water from there into money, into the Þjórðar. It went so far in 2013, when the national inactivation had lost the battle for the Northern Age Institute, that a local environmental minister took a hand brake. He stopped at peace, stopped the expansion of the land of peace, with brief notice that the loaves and pancakes had been made. It was all set in front of the east to blow horns and rejoice that the land of peace at the Red Sea would grow. And the minister said unto him, No. Then, in the drawing table, Nationalization sat down and drew up a Cold Age Institute, which is like the Norwegian Age, unless drawn just outside the peace-installed area. Is it only hope that then the head of the Land Protection Agency, Ingi In Guðbrandsson, has used as a disguise to call the North American Age Institute? Next town, you can see between these days. That weird thing is--no, that's not weird. I just want to talk about how we did this on the Environment and Transport Committee, this proposal for a frame plan. It is true that the committee's work was done well, that visitors came, and could explain their viewpoints, and that most of them are well cared for in all the opinions available on the subject. But there was one key we never got involved with the discussion. This is a scene in the preceding discussion, in the early stages of the case. It was then noted that all the government groups warned of the proposal made by the minister. Two groups made plain that they wanted to expand the waiting party. What does that mean? we asked here at the council hall. It was like reading the little yellow chicken. Everyone we asked said, "Not me, not me. I'm not gonna say it. It was something unsolved. It was a premise that no one knew exactly what to do with it but that the priming groups wanted something for them. They were just going to figure it out. Each time we brought this up in the committee next, we received similar answers: Not me, not me. I'm not gonna bring a list here. Not me, not me. But at the end of the days, was it last week? - It's been a week since we've been on the Committee, which should be in front of people in general when it came to the inside of the council, found out who had become involved in this case between political parties and members of the administrations. Let us be careful about the word compromise in this regard. It's quite normal for me to think that compromise is taking place between conflicting interests on a chemical basis. I think it's quite normal that this tool as a frame plan is trying to find a compromise between those who want to use land under activations and those who want to use land beneath something else, but to use evidence, scientific data. The media of the government parties is nothing like that. It's just a political fox between them, horse trade, so I use a word that I think is too dreary to be able to use. This was given to us at the time of the end of a council contract, when the pile of mercenaries at the council is so large that everything falls into the shadow. Of course, it's no coincidence, Mr. President, but it's the conscious rhythms of the board to avoid discussions about an undefeated decision, to stay under cover, and not to protect what cannot be protected. What are the characteristics of all these changes? What they mean is that they listen to activationists. It is listened to the activation provider. The caution principle, it is applied right in motion of the greater part in the interest of the recruiter, not in the interest of nature, as to be done. - That entrance was a little longer than I was going to, I'm sorry, Mr. President. What I'd also like to mention is further the process, how the present administration groups, independent party and forward party, especially that have been in government longer than left green, have fully and consciously undermined the framework in recent years. It is no coincidence that we are here nine years after the approved last frame plan, finally in place where the next one might be approved. A large part of it is through tata, mainly the forward party and the Independence Party, so I now wave my friends in the left green. But by joining the two categories of government, left greens played a role in the fact that nothing has happened in the last four years. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the first, put together a frame plan, a highland park, and a national park, so that all matters became impossible and did not end during the last term. Four lost years of nature protection, thank you. But what happens also? It builds up pressure to avoid a frame plan. Some have described it as a wild West situation because the threshold to the frame is 10 MW. All of a sudden, it is a huge offensive to build 9.9 MW fortresses that don't have to go through the box. There are no micro-circuits. We're getting closer, for example. in that the rest of the high country of the East, which was not touched by the Köldran's reactivation, will be implemented in so - called small activations. These fortresses are to be spread like hailbrush over areas that should much rather be protected. It's also happening because of the major system problems we face in energy production, and there are holes in environmental food laws. You see, it was a bit shitty of a Bureau of Organization when it was due to be run through the Kárian's activation. Then the government found it totally impossible that somehow the institution could reverse them, as was in the existing law, if its view of environmental impact was severely negative. Laws were thus changed in behalf of the recruiter, in the interests of all who are motivated and who do not want to be stopped by negative environmental assessment. It was changed so that the permit holder is not bound by whether the Agency considers the environmental assessment to be negative to not be carried out. I mention this, Mr. President, because I think this is a bit of a bit of a suspicion or, we're not just supposed to call things the right names, anxiety for people living near the Sports, for example, who knows that if the benefits get into a frame plan, we're going to call them the right types of environmental assessment and the license team of rural society, and because of this gap in environmental food law, there's no problem. Therefore, we are always faced with such hot discussions around a frame plan because it is, which it should not be, if we had a proper legal environment, the last battle. It is here that activation options are won or lost in the interest of nature. At the costs and then perhaps a little bit out of the proposals of more parts of the environment and transport committee and this political bee to which the management groups went. First, I'd like to mention these steps, which were carried out on the activation initiatives established by the Power Institute in a framework of initiatives, but most of them were not at the custody of any activation provider. These were some of the old ideas found in some dusty files in a shelf and someone had ever been wondering who was thrown into a frame project management program, almost as if to put sand in their wheels. There was a huge number of unnecessary work to do in this regard, work that can be done, since waiting classes have no option unless tests show that they have a place else to live. If no activation provider is available to perform an assessment of the benefits, this situation will not change. What a joy it is, then, that this cleansing process took place! It is also good to see that the greater part suggests that Stockholm is taken off course, which is designed to make a small activation option in an entirely superabundant region, just boned in the center of the highlands just outside the edge of the Lakesland parks, avoids the possibility of an opportunity for use and, in effect, avoiding the fact that he is above his head in a frame plan, just like the high - quality operation of the nearest grasslands. Of course, these advantages should have been out of the frame schedule at the same time as a highland national park would have been realized, but it did not, and in addition, it was part of the compromise of the ideal period that activation efforts might take place within the highland park so that the Gangs could have been combined with this highland park. But the evidence that is used to hold up the Cradle century is evidence that might, for example, be given. use for IPE. I mention it because it was placed in the 2013 energy response category and it was unchanged 2016 when this proposal was first introduced. But since then there have been changes. An organization returned, e.g. An estimated 2017 found that there would be some negative effects on the project. These are new information to take into account. The precaution should be used in the interest of nature, not in the recruitment process. Therefore, I suggest for a change of motion, which I am by myself, that Inflation is removed from the course of energy to a waiting group so that it can be considered more closely. I suggest the same thing with regard to Impulse activation, the only activation of the lower part of The Trinity, which is a major part of the environment and transport committee, does not suggest a waiting process. But it is also the only activation that is about to become reality. This is the activation that needs to be examined before it is completed. To avoid bringing this activation into a waiting category with the other two, the majority of the committee's section cancels that these three activations should be considered as a whole. If the more part wants to view them as a whole, all of them need to be suspended. It has no right effect on anyone else. Therefore, I suggest that Haggis will be suspended in a special Senate document. I'm running out of time, and I'm not even halfway there, so I'm just going to skate through the rest. That's the big bad changes for activation. On one hand, move the Shire's waters from protection to hold and, on both occasions, from protective cold to waiting; on very low terms. Nationalization, under the heading to the Committee, claims that the decision of the Project Management Board on the Kylldu is illegal. That's what they use in reviews. On the basis of this decision, an official agency uses the commission to the Generals the term "no law against this decision. " The Ministry says it's nonsense, but in the interest of the activation experts, the majority of the components decide to move this activation into place. With the Lakes in the district, it is of little importance what the co-employer, the Communicator's Communicator, said on the effect on the Lakes in the Shire when available, and is totally unmistakable that nature in the Lakes is the one that scored most of the areas studied by the frame plan. [[The president calls.]] Piranus, Conspiracy, and the revere, we add that the Lakes of the Shire and Kalunda return to protection where they live because we do not purchase political horses for nature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u63	V.E.G. President. I wanted to take this opportunity and maybe start where it was. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson had to finish his talk for the sake of his time, and that was the move to Kalalundun. There's no difference, and there's an answer from the Ministry that what national inactivation calls an illegal treatment is just nonsense. We are here with logical support from the professional class 1 and 2 which was submitted to the project management, and it was her assessment that the option of Kalälduvaya was the same as that of the Northern Age. It was an assessment of the project management, and it was assessed in her professional groups. That's the way it was supposed to be. I must admit that I feel a little sad watching the same sequence over and over again. You keep pushing. It is, in fact, rooted in the same language. What's happened now, like why. The senator mentioned in his speech the pressure groups, the rich have come into the motion, and so, for example, are being offered. The county waters from protection for waiting. I'd like to pray. A senator, of course. A senator was in years past a member of the left movement of ◯ green supply, explaining to me how he thinks this might happen in his old group.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u64	When you ask a big question, Mr. President. Perhaps I could start by mentioning it as a matter of course. A senator speaks of, this decades - long battle against interests, and particularly the people against the riverbeds that have had to fight the Continent for half a century. I have to admit that I don't quite understand what those people are made of because the strength they need to fight them all this time is not too strong. But what happens naturally when all of a sudden the group that went off to be the world's best protection party is that these forces suddenly lose a very important backland. What happens then is that they are beginning to undermine all kinds of other factors at the same time. We were talking about the Lakes of the Shire, but around the Lakes of the Shire, this criticism came to the decomposition of water from sources. It also came in this land induction memo and was also driven as nonsense. However, most of it is taken up, and it is drawn into the Shiver River, saying that it must not be touched by any descriptions of peace, until it has been lured outside by the disclosure of the area. So countless locations have been undermined by all the tools associated with a frame plan in addition to its core. But the question of how this happens - groups may become withered, dry from the outside and inside, but there are still people in the grass root of the left green yet. [[The president calls.]] Young left green, e.g. the above - mentioned statement asking whether a government organization is really worth sacrificing one's own convictions and conflicts. [[The president calls.]] They do not think so, but we see in the vote on this matter what the members of the Parliament think. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u65	V.E.G. President. I'm living in the hope that tomorrow's vote will be more part of keeping the Shire Lakes and the U.S. Department of Protection. I'm going to live in that hope, at least one more 24 hours. But because of it. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned the people who have fought against prime plans in the lower part of During the Year that is exactly one of the third generation in the same family, Pálína Jónsdóttir of Njarvívík, describes what it is like to be literally committed by a man in the same fight. We know exactly what it is when people or little groups are fighting the State and/or public companies. Then the natural balance of power is tremendous. I remember listening to what I heard. In the early year 2007, there was a senator who spoke to landowners at the Back of Turbulence, and I have here directly from one of the narratives, by permission of Presidents, to the broken, to the water tank, and to the GSM complex. Of course, such conduct is wrong. Of course, it was and is a frame plan to some extent try to take the job out of this process that was in the past and to stop giving the energy companies the self-inflicted examples of how they are being carried out. But the effect on the families, landowners, farmers at the bottom of the winter can not really be described as having to stand in that piece for half a century. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u66	Mr. President. A three - generation battle against the same nonsense, a man by yourself, must be a great deal of trouble, especially when there is a struggle with the State, is with us. The kingdom is nothing but us, the state is just a system that we make out of common interests, to protect all of us, to protect ourselves from nature, to protect our society. How can any part of that state strike its head against the stone for half a century in order to destroy The Red Sea? Why can't we just tell them to stop? In fact, I'll tell them in my committee party. I don't know if there's any legal value if my proposals are accepted, but I've at least gotten it away from me. Regarding the stroke as it looked in the old days, where it had to fight for each activation for itself, it was naturally replaced by a system since then. A Ramma plan was introduced when the occasional large activations were done. It wasn't taken up to create an overall system until Iceland was almost decoupling itself. That is why there is also so much stress in the frame plan, because the benefits left have become far more difficult to imagine today. They are flocking to more delicate, more valuable areas for perhaps less economic gain. So it may be normal for the new system to step down now, because earlier generations simply finished the easy pieces. Modern generations can hardly be known to finish all the rest. We may need to take it slow, so that future generations also have something to say about how the land will be set aside for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u67	A respectable president. A Ramma plan is an important control tool. This is what the majority of the members of the committee party have to say to a proposal to take care of the case here at the council, and I hear that there are other causes. Councilmen, both here in the hall and in the house, who agree with it. For good reason, we feel that this is an important control tool. This assessment, established and established, as stated in the legislation, is subject to unique activation ideas as well as to geographic areas. It's a very important part of all of this, that it's about land, not just unique priming ideas. As has been established here in a number of earlier talks, there was no agreement on the methodology, in case methodology should be called, which was practiced here before this control device came up that was developing through one creative idea at once. Hv. paritaprevir Þórunn, Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir, reminded all of us here at the terrible stroke we all had in the case of Kárfjörn Healing. There are, however, conflicting opinions on these matters, and this government is not perfect at all, nor is it perfect. Experience tells us that its review is needed. I'll get to it later. But as I say, the management frame plan is not undisputed. I'd like to say something to Þórunn extent. Sveinbjarnardóttir And I hope that I'm right after what's happened. A senator, after years of delay in the attention of the prisoner, the one we are discussing today, has also had some damage to the discussion. The fact that the council did not, and our officers here in this hall, has not been satisfied to complete the payment of this stage has disturbed the discussion, let us say, and launch it. I've said more talks that it sort of took the stone out of it that when my discussion on electricity, the mountains went higher in the winter and not always based on clear evidence. We are the country that produces the largest electricity on the world's heads. This is not to say that we meet the energy exchange - needed to be met, I think we all agree here that resisting the climate problem with all available measures is the largest task of our time - soleness by breaking a new land. But there's evidence that certain people spoke very strongly that it's the only way and all kinds of ways, I'll let myself say, a respectable president, a more repetitious notion that there will be no future here unless we generate energy by means of big-time working machines. I'll turn it down myself, I'll reject this approach. But fortunately, the debate is developing in the right direction, I mean, because I'm a optimistic man, including with conference discussions on the payment of another matter, which is now a change in this legislation, which makes it easier to expand hardware in activations without allowing a break in a new country to further extract energy from a water drop that we already have a new one, we are using and have already decided to make use of. Instead of attacking a new land, the resource is better handled. There's one way. Power savings is another way. I like to share in conversations where people laugh at my face and say it's bullshit. Power savings, there's plenty of energy here. But there is just no waste of enough, no waste, and that is also true of electricity. New technology, like some whiskers. Similarly, members of Parliament have entered previous talks as a way to improve their skills. What may be the closest thing to us at home, which is, however, only for users 5% of all produced electricity in the country, i.e. The homes in the country, they're seeing this in their electrical bills if we just switch the light bulbs, using so-called spar bulbs. We may be able to thank our cooperation in Europe that we are now required to look into these things and not sell local bulbs that spend more. Of course, this is just a small example and does not count much. Of course, when we are going to make a further attack on land, much of this will be done in the end of a small task. When a frame plan, this important control device, was established in its own time, it was, of course, a means of reconciliation. I think I've just noticed, and I hope I'm not joking, but whisker. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson told the news in the week that it was a compromise in itself. We may discuss it a little better here in later halls what he meant by those words. But it sure turns, like a what. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddóttir went over, whether, where, and how we powered electricity in Iceland. Indeed, it is a device, as indicated in the opinion of the committee that is worthy of our control, strengthening and strengthening, since we have nothing better. As it is today, we have nothing better, and I think we all agree on it, wherever we are, that we don't want to go back to the time when we were dealing with individual activations with the related pain and/or joys in some cases, I'm not going to reduce it even though I didn't necessarily share it myself. An excellent basis for the order of the project management. There's a lot of good stuff here. Senators review the details of this tool, and I can quite appreciate in my discussion that there is also some misunderstanding, and I have full understanding of it, it's a complex project. We agreed on this in a new environmental and transport committee for a long time, and in many of the winters and nature of the situation, we're all always learning something new in each case where we open up the discussion and leave. But in the foundation, the proposals of a project administration are based on the proposals of professional groups that it puts together in our most skilled scientists who lay the basis for a particular organization; I don't intend to trace it any more here; the factors that need to be weighed when making a suggestion that a unique activation idea should be new, or not a new per se, but a suggestion that it goes into a novelty party. So it's just a completely independent decision, and it follows entirely whether it will ever be new, and it should be maintained, or it's so rich in nature that this area, so that I come back to it, should be protected from energy efficiency. The work of the project managers and the professional groups consists of extensive, extensive consultations. And that's what I'm saying now because naturally this debate is being held here during the last days of the council, it's strong feelings and strong and clear opinions, especially from the National Protection Agency. You are absolutely right. paritaprevir In fact, the Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddottir says here, in several forms, that the environmental protection movement has fought like a lion with unique priming ideas, has contributed to the process by reviews and reviews in broad agreement with the work programme and the professional groups. The nature of the matter, when you're in such a fight, you don't give up. I understand this very well because I think I belong to this movement. It's been said of this device, and that's what it is, for example. One of the suits, that it's actually all the land underneath, always the whole country. In fact, it is an option to think of all kinds of priming ideas anywhere except that this process has already been determined and here by the General's decision that an area should be protected from energy efficiency. It's a very interesting approach, so I'll continue to refer to it. paritaprevir The 1994 country of Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddo, a country where it has been discussed, foreshadowed by the law on protecting and fishing for wild birds and mammals. There are wild birds and wild mammals in Iceland in the ground. However, there are exceptions, with scientific evidence of whether or not to be fished for a certain time, at a particular time of year, or at the time of the year, because the stock size is poor. It is based on scientific and professional judgment. I just think it's really worth the discussion and the opinion worth it now, just now that we're producing this tremendous amount of electricity on each individual and we have a vision for the future, it's starting to turn towards energy exchanges, but also in green working structure, but not on a major scale. I don't think it's any man today talking about the big business we saw here some decades ago. That would be possibly. The key to turning this around is to plan on the discussion whether we should view it as the animal law they are sometimes called, i.e. It is not necessarily the whole country but the whole country. Then we need to examine with certain logic how we actually make decisions to change matters with certain reasons. In this context, there have been criticism of the value of differing estimates, since not all the land is under. But nature's most important thing to do. This is how legislation is established. Since nature value is rich, and it is based on scientific conclusions, the area is very valuable, and if you look into the balance of this work done in 2013, 2014, 2015, on the other hand, the project management submitted a proposal for 2016, we will see that, of course, since the natural value is the most rich thing in the world, they weigh the most. However, we also know that, and in part, it is in the preparation for these proposals for a minister, that an assessment of the community under a professional group 3 is being made. It has been criticized, but we also know, and we came to the section in which the committee saw that the work programme and the working force in carrying out this food have changed dramatically. That's even. what we look at in the greater part when making suggestions for specific suggestions. It is important to look to social influences. It is important to make a social decision. I've heard it, and I understand exactly what it means when it's said that, of course, we won't all be happy. That is true of all decisions. But it's a change that matters in my opinion to look into and make sure that we are taken into account in some way, that we achieve as much community reconciliation for large projects. We don't necessarily need to be talking about activation ideas in this context, there can be a line structure, it can be a decision to build an apartment structure or whatever it is we want, something that changes our immediate environment. If we don't get this social reconciliation, it's a form of conflict and dissociation. Sadly, in Icelandic history, we have too many examples of how communities have been scattered, even families have been scattered as noted, and have been discussed in connection with the Gunnan struggle for their protection of a Preservation Being, since this has been brought into the Red Sea. It is good to shoot in that the whole area was at peace, all of Hoft's clothing, and all During the Red Sea was declared a peace-infested 2017 of the then Environment Minister, Björt Ólafsdóttir. That's the way it is. It has nothing to do with the suggestion we are discussing today. This is a nonviolent region because of the importance of what is available and of the natural treasures underneath. It has also been found to be critical of the protection of whole lakes. It is unacceptable to set aside the cohesive fields of water at the moment; I allow me to say the dramatic activation ideas that make it a success - they feel too much intervention, too disturbed, so that the cost of sacrifice is not acceptable. It's been rolled up, including with logic of new technologies, perhaps there are any ideas or means that do not interfere with these natural values. I haven't seen them yet, just don't see them at all, but I'm not saying they don't exist, I'm not saying that there's no way to find a way into it. But the opening point is that it is important to protect the whole area of water, and that is one of the reasons we address in the Committee's opinion to perform a certain assessment of this. How many lakes are full and damaged in Iceland? How many water fields are damaged, and what's the disorder? How much is it? We'll have more, we'll tell the number on the table, and we'll look at all of them, in the context of the whole country, the place on the lakes. It is urgent, and we also call it in the opinion of the committee, to look to a water program, another system that we have borrowed and adapted here to the Icelandic legal environment of our friends on the continent of Europe. No matter how you look at this, it always works, especially by the professional groups and the task management, making a suggestion to a minister who then again proposes to the council to weigh all ideas together, so we are never talking about evaluations of one idea at a time. This release by the Generalis, i.e. what we're discussing now and taking care of tomorrow is an important step, in line with the words of the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee and the head of the committee of the committee of the greater part I am involved in. These are suggestions given by the Management of Projects in 2016. It's a very large suggestion. It's been discarded, and we've been discussing it on the committee, and I think two years ago. People before me even walked in on it, and I think we all agree that on the basis of it is really a big deal. Maybe that's why the delay hasn't worked out and it hasn't run out. It has also been discussed with reference that all ideas, both those that are already new or that are already part of a category or that have ideas that are for food, will always be together. So I think it's perfectly safe for us to see my stage at once. Then I think they'll be more manageable in all discussion and, in many respects, easier to sink into the things that can be difficult to deal with. It's a lot of data, and a lot of work, even if I'm not getting any of it. I want it to be repeated because of the discussion now about what is to be done in a novelty group that is not to say it will be new. There are many examples of this in the current 2013 Framework Programme and in addition to 2015, where use has not been undertaken and there is no necessarily evidence of this, although the option may be of a novelty class. In the same way, the transfers we make, from Neon class and from a protective party to a waiting party - does not mean that there is no message to be joined by a colony. The music doesn't even offer that interpretation, so they say. It's a matter of evaluation of these benefits with specific reasons, and I remind you that the natural value has not gone away, for those who are concerned about it. They're over there, maybe now they're in there. increase in some cases in new evaluations, but it must only be observed. This is the task of professional groups and project directors are expected to perform here at the council. I would finally like to remind you of this, because there were now some indignities that in the first state of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's daughter, there were not much success in this project, that there were seven activation ideas in four waters which were at peace informed against energy efficiency on the basis of a decision made by the World Council in 2013 and other such factors as the Earthvar. 14 priming ideas in areas which were peace-enforced against energy efficiency. These are regions like Jackus on the mountains. This is Geysir, Hakkardal. These are the Mountains of Kerns. Great natural spheres in Iceland. Nevertheless, when I tell them unregistered, I mean that there's peace on energy processing, four assets or ideas about the value of water in three areas, and two in the earth in one area, and if this proposal reaches out, as I put my hopes in it, five new water activation ideas will be added to two large waters, the Swamp and the Skaft River. And because we were referred to innocuously in the last period, we're just talking about peace reports against energy efficiency and not the countless peace reports on the basis of nature protection laws or the expansion of territories or national parks. They can learn what they are interested in. Then perhaps it would be nice to make the same point that there is a turning point in this context and then perhaps we'll say, "I'm not happy, but I'm glad that Power Institute has at its time entered the 28 priming ideas without actually asking someone to act on their use of them. " This has had the right effect on the whole lateness of the country that its use is not to be changed in any other way. I'd like to draw out in that context, I was just counting it while I sat here in my seat, that of the 28 creative ideas that the Power Institute has reduced the plan and the waiting party is reduced to 16 of them within or to the middle of the country. It has been suggested here that the release of this case is spoken of as such. transfer of the delay activation option Thugular age, including with this argument on the importance of protection from large areas and landscapes in the highlands, the importance that has only increased, and since these proposals were available. Then, in the opinion of the committee, we consider that there were a number of things to look forward to and that we recommend a review of the law, which is exactly a project on the annual scale. A minister sitting here in the hall, as this is under the terms of a government covenant. There is a message that I would have thought would also be acceptable to nature protection, as if they were that these scale targets that are fundamental to the law, so that I now take an example of water supply, 10 MW, are really not a standard that can be seen because they are designed to develop 9.9 MW activation, which will not go through this program, are similar to 15 or 18 MW activation. We know too many of that. I know, and I trust it to the highest. A minister will look to this as well as to other factors, which the greater part specify in its committee feel this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u68	A respectable president. Our responsibilities at the General Assembly are great, and we have a large but complex task. To solve them successfully, we need to have the ability to look to all eight, whether present, past, or even more, for the future. Being able to communicate well and to cooperate often leads to the conclusion of a complex project. Then there was work related to a so - called frame. Together, the Environment and Transport Committee has finally made up of the box that could be said to have been frozen since 2013. While a significant lengthy agreement and solidarity have now been achieved, the committee has brought many guests, thanking them for good introductions and good discussions. The Government Treaty states that Iceland is to be in the lead of international environmental policies. We want Iceland to take the lead in combating the climate, and we're going to meet the Paris Convention's requirements. At the same time, we have set goals for Iceland to achieve non-carbon and total energy exchanges as late as the year 2040 and will be free of fossil fuels first. Energy exchange is a major factor in Iceland's contribution to the challenge of climate change, but to achieve those targets, we need to ensure access to green energy through sustainable development as a guide. Our role is to use no more than we need, to consider the sustainable and environmental life - styles. It is vital that we cultivate a better, more healthy pattern of consumption, but it is also important to settle the fortresses needed to build a green, carbon - free society. The important thing is to be cautious about the fragile nature of the country while looking for better energy efficiency. This will prevent the loss of energy from the energy system, along with improved efficiency of existing activation. A Ramma programme is an important control tool that measures the protection of areas and energy efficiency and that is worthy of maintenance and support. It covers the country's major energy sources and its treatments for different interests on a wide range of grounds. The Framework Programme is aimed at ensuring that land use is based on long-term considerations and broad agreement on nature and culture protection, efficiency and profitability. But these good tools must continue to be developed in view of the changing focus on tourism, society, Iceland's commitments, and the state of the world. I'm glad that some of the points mentioned in the committee were finally met at last, but that's certainly not an option. Much of the land is already being used or protected, which may also be for use, but it is important that we use our country with caution, for we want future generations to enjoy unmannerly nature. Our most precious inheritance for future generations is natural and pure, but in this way we can produce our inheritance, we need to plan how we walk about the natural world with a clear view of the future. Protection and peace in certain areas are a fine price, but caution is needed when deciding to pursue large areas for the future. It remains the question of where the power to come from the future. It is not for us to make decisions for future generations. While we here do not make decisions about peace reporting specific areas, that does not mean that we have a purpose to use them, certainly not, but that we leave those decisions for future members according to future needs in the community. A nation's energy independence becomes ever more important in a world, and it is necessary for nations to respond quickly to changing conditions. In this context, there is a priming option in the Shiver River, i.e. Acquired activation and Autosaving Iactivation A, B, and C, which are in the protective category according to the existing proposal, do not consider the majority of the material to be a reason for suggesting a change. A tsunami is one of those areas in which a peace-lighted lake must be evaluated as a result of review of the protection and energy efficiency legislation. A decision on the peace profile of well-burning sources cannot be made until this assessment has been established, as is the case with use. But then, in accordance with the policy of the Treaty, there has been an increasing number of advantages. It is better to assume that the activation options are grouped to a waiting party than to a protective or novelty party, while further data is collected. It is important that social impacts and uncertainty about the actual impacts of natural and biological activities exist before deciding whether or not an area should be a protection class. The moving of areas to a waiting party does not mean that they are automatically in a category or a protection party. Rather, they are being reassessed and reviewed. It has been a long time since the previous task management made a suggestion for these areas, and things have changed since then. Also, benefits that do not belong to a waiting party have been taken out. Notes showed that a number of activations were included in the waiting category of the schedule, which no prime provider had requested to assess. These include CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 Consider activation initiatives in the Torfajöus region, in salmon fishing in the East and in other advantages taken by the Power Institute and on the basis of law No. 48/2011 assigned the task management to cover. There are 28 activations, either for use in water or for earth's heat. The reason for the specific activation options to be classified as a waiting class is primarily that there are insufficient data on the target and therefore insufficient grounds for a category of protection or innovation. However, while the activation initiatives are grouped, there are limits to other land uses in the region. In this way, there are some cases where protection initiatives against energy efficiency cannot be ruled out, where priming is at the same level. Therefore, it might be said that in some respects the desired activation option is stuck in a waiting category, where no activation provider is working on its development and including the gathering of the necessary data to provide a final classification of protection or utilisation. Thus, the majority, as part of the importance of achieving the desired level, suggest that these specific benefits be derived from the schedule where no recruiter is behind them. This is what I think is important and necessary steps. A respectable president. At last, the harnessing of wind power has been on the agenda for real. The diversity of energy sources contributes to improving energy security and flexibility in the energy system. While Iceland still has unexplored hydropowers and geothermals, it is wise to increase the variety of energy sources through the efficiency of wind energy and other renewable energy sources for electricity generation. Wind energy is both practical and renewable, and it is one of the better options for future energy efficiency. In the current motion, it is the first time to find activation in wind power. The wind - power advantage in Burgundy is organized into a waiting party in the available motion, reasoning that it is in a damaged area with a low protection value but its impact on tourism and outdoors is high. However, a majority of the committee suggests that the activation option, however, is changed by two factors laid up in the Burding plant, which is shorter, i.e. fewer windmills, fewer megawatts, and ready to move in the area, will be provided as well as visual effects will be considerably less than when it comes to originally possible. They believe that the majority of the cohesion can be an important part of ensuring the better use of existing hydropower workers in the region as well as the greater support for national energy security. All the energy that lives in the wind can be a key factor when it comes to blocking off the system pressure created in the last few years because of the delay in the removal of the frame. The government's treaties show that special laws on the use of wind power are to be put in place to simplify the structure of wind plants. It should be noted that wind power plants are based on specific areas, close integration and transport lines where pass safety and minimisation of environmental impacts can be ensured. You can hear that the future truly is in the wind. Today, no other nation boasts of such a high proportion of green energy from total energy consumption as we Icelanders do. Thus, we may be proud, but it takes a long time to activate new energy options, and long-term plans need to set energy aside to meet future needs, thus increasing awareness and stability. Therefore, it is of utmost importance that peace has been achieved with the framework that we present today and that I would like to use this opportunity and thank the Environment and Transport Committee for a good job and for anyone who came to our attention on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u69	President. Today's debate is the third stage of a frame program. In a matter of what. paritaprevir In this case, when the discussion started with this case, Jón Steindór's Valdimarsson showed that it is a matter that must be handled by the General, a case that is very rich in the nation's interests, and it is reasonable that it is treatable, that there is not a law on the framework nor a proper treatment in the authority of the Generals, but the purpose of the process was to ensure a careful investigation of the energy available to the Icelands and to try to ensure that the decisions were as difficult as possible. Now I happen to be one of the experts who took part in the third phase work. Although it is true in itself that great and professional work is fundamental to professional judgment, there are defects in this approach as do other humans. Basically, it is adding, trying to collect different characteristics of different activations, and creating a single order in one dimension, a very twisted, difficult task. If we were to take an example, it would be as if we were trying to choose a construction site by picking out its different qualities and then adding them to one another. The major defects in this approach are that characteristics within normal decision selection would not be considered to be of limited value, i.e. The method itself has the problem that when grades are given in high and lower courts and then some kind of weighted averages of those can result in strange results. This could, for example, be possible. A building site on Eelfuns between the junkyards and the range of shooting, could easily be considered an ideal building because there is a fair view, even though no sane person would think of building them. The review of the professional group I went before, a professional class 4, was about this problem. There is no doubt that professionals who took in the assessment of different environmental effects or impacts on the environment would follow the benefits of those under the framework of their work. These studies are useful and the basis for careful decision making in this room, but they are currently limited. They're some kind of average score. The method does not offer another way, so if things evidently fall outside the normal complex, because the effect is different and more extensive in some particular place, some kind of insurmountability, or an obvious major reason is the basis for their failure to do so. In this context it was noted that in the 4th stage, which I didn't exactly come up with, but Iceland's Economic Institute of Economics carried out research on this problem in stage 4 it was found that the salmon populations that have often been discussed in connection with Uryrdefactivation and the environmental impact on them, outweighed the expert assessment and, in fact, outweighed the expert assessment. What does this tell us? This tells us that a structure like any human project is simply an imperfect experiment that can always be improved. I am convinced that the fourth stage took some of the damages from phase 3 to review. I'm convinced that stage 5 will be even better. This also emphasizes that some sort of requirement for blindness is something that I cannot, under no circumstances, support. Finally, it is up to the council to review these data collected with a sufficient amount of care and then to evaluate what members of the Parliament believe is a normal order for efficiency, waiting, and protection. The second issue is whether exactly the proposal presented to the council today from the greater part of the Council meets the requirement to have reevaluated these data by professional approach or other viewpoints. It is on this basis, based on the doubt that such a professional evaluation was the basis for the suggestion of the greater part, which the restoration will not support. This is especially true regarding the import of protection initiatives for use, and particularly in view of the fact that the task management was covering all these options and making these decisions. That would be the argument that would justify such changes. There are methods that can be used to directly approach the people regarding their will. At this point, we pointed out the experts in pro group 4 in phase 3 in order to do long and thorough language. In this important decision-making process, I feel that there is some harm to me because these methods have not been considered further. Our neighbors have adopted them, and in the context of this method, Americans have searched for their national assessments of various environmental measures for many decades, with reasonable results, and have been floating forward each year. If we examine the actual history of this project, i.e. The major work being done for the General to take into account the most efficient energy production initiatives in Iceland are the people's most efficient, but it is never so that activation projects can be carried out without environmental impact. We're talking about what damage, what recession or decline in Iceland's environmental quality is considered acceptable for energy gain. We need to approach that project in some new way because this compromise that the frame plan was supposed to have sailed to the beach, as the treatment of this list from the stage 3 shows. At any rate, it is my firm opinion to move forward in this regard so that this knot can be solved - because of our responsibility in other areas, e.g. ensuring that we have enough energy exchange power, and we face problems in which we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions - the means by making renewable energy. We need to be able to prevent these different environmental benefits, which are protected by individual areas affected by the activation and the effects on emissions contractions. In order to approach this assignment in this way, we need to look for the people in my own eyes. These methods enable us to discern what qualities it is when it is possible for us to do some creative work that controls the well - being of our lives, on our ability to enjoy nature, on our ability to live the way we want to live our lives, for example. leaving us too big a carbon track. All these different options need to be weighed together. There is no one in the end who, in my opinion, can fully answer this, except the people. At the same time as I say, of course, it is normal for the Council to agree with this, while I say that there are clearly irregularities in stage 3 and therefore perfectly natural to suggest the changes to the results of the project administration there, I also say: " While the evidence is not stronger than the most part of the event today, I doubt that the new order is better than the old order. Eventually, what we need to do is improve our methodology.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u70	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying I'm sorry about a little bit, but this isn't the first time I'm having trouble with the printer, but I'll try my best to discuss the question of a more controversial decision. The environment and transport committee on the payment of the 3rd-to-part framework plan, which has finally looked at. The decision of the greater part cannot be said to bring general joy among naturalists and other members of Parliaments here at the General Assembly. Not at all. The representatives of five nature protection groups wrote a strong article on the European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee on the 3rd Amendment of the Framework Programme, saying that there will be a very serious impact on the ideas of more than one part of the European Parliament's Environment and Transport Committee, to support the 3rd Amendment of the Framework Programme, to come true. There are big words that we have an obligation to take very seriously. It is not only a strong criticism of the possibility of a waiting factor to be moved to a novelty party but also of the treatment. Let us consider just the priming options. This is about, as has been traced today, Madam President, to transfer Burflund from a waiting party, the Shire Lake of Skavetorvet from a waiting party. For the upper part of Þrjörður Klörður, protective group shall be removed from the waiting party and peace must be ruled out because of the protection programmes of the Shiver River, until otherwise specified. All of this rhymes with activation ideas of Land reactivation, and all of these are the advantages that the Legion will not accept as a protection party. Madam President. You cannot help but look to the structured propaganda that has come from the energy companies in recent months and in recent years about the so - called alleged lack of electricity for energy exchange. What nonsense. Last December, I would like to remind you of the words of the head of Energy Agency in Reykjavík, which spoke in the December 17, issue of News magazine that the talk about a lack of electricity is strange in this country. During this interview, the director, Bjarni Bjarnason, reminded us that the large - scale electric manufacturer of Iceland, with about five times the power production that is being made by other countries, makes about 80% of the electricity production go into major industry. It is not enough that we are faced with this massive object but that the industry is still receiving electricity at a much lower price than the domestics. A foreign industry gets our electricity, rivers, lakes, and rivers of all of us, in a foreign industry of ridicule. And for what? Yes, to produce aluminium, but the price of it swings like a pendulum. It is likely, though, that it is more profitable with the military concern that is more common in the Western world after the invasion of Russia in Ukraine in February. But again, the director of the Reykjavík Power Office for an interview with the Press last December. There he also speaks of the energy exchange and the lack of energy for transport energy change, the unsolved electricity per year given the full efficiency capacity of about 0.9 TWst, enough to drive all the motor fleets, all the private cars in the country of about 240,000. It is estimated that this number will be reached in the year 2040. So there is no electricity in the electric cars, said the director of one of the largest power companies in the country, and thus the majority of the coven. The Environment and Transport Committee, which he did last December. But what on earth is going on here, Madam President? Why do more things catch anyway? The environment and transport committees to these moistures, which were deteriorated by December, and in fact, by more interviews with the director? Why do most of the Committee ignore the argument of environmental organizations and others regarding the protection of uninterrupted lakes and wild waters that are rare on a global scale, areas to which we Icelanders are to be protected? Therefore, it is not good to answer here, for a majority of the committees must answer to the council. It is also the treatment of the synopsis, which is severely criticized by the nature protection organizations that point to. on large-scale data and anti-array treatment for Eastern reactivation in Isafjörg as well as the very controversial Cential Whale Painting of the Beaches, who are supposed to sit in the novelity class in terms of the greater part, although all subsequent research in the future would collapse that they would cut half of the large Drangajelus area and be utterly unacceptable for today's nature protection. A waiting party wants the same thing to bring the wave activation into an explosion, and the two activations at the bottom of Þjósar. However, it is unlikely that they would have been a high priority on the Landing Programme until a distant future, if ever. The majority of handly reasons to support changes in each activation initiative but, unfortunately, clearly deny all scientific and professional data that measure for the protection category of the agreed costs. Activation ideas at the Shire Lakes and the river Shivering, as well as the Cave Cald, are all in the edge of the important global region of the highlands and would adversely impair natural quality in all the future. The Jackes of Skatir are back under their unique nature. This is well known by members of the district. And Shiver river's waterfalls do not get the peace that they truly deserve. Nature's annual struggle for lasting reconciliation for the protection of the sacred nature realm and the channel of Tubals is brought to nothing here. The vague ideas of the greater part that a frame plan is only the first step of many in considering activation initiatives, and many other defenses exist, Madam President, is nothing more than a prenup. The survival of the present greater part would be an example for political horses later on. That's hardly what we want to see, is it? The professional agreement intended to create a framework will be permanently terminated if this is the result of the General Assembly. In view of the greater part, land activation and other energy companies will have their requests for the estimating initiative at last fulfilled to answer and satisfy the ready need that cannot be reasoned. With this kind of payment, there will be a great fight, respectability, and fierce battle of natureists and environmentalists, and it will return for decades to the coming of a congregation of the more than one part of the government. The defenses of natureists are broken, and as we stand here in the Hall today, talks on a frame plan under the protests of the Eastern Guardians to remind us of the views that have been promoted and the decades struggle to protect the universe and the highlands that are being ignored here. It's the demand for the protection of nature all over the country that sounds here. Many environmentalists have written declarations, gathered and sent letters to members of the Parliament, and all these are the people of the country, voters, the public themselves, who want us to protect the individual nature of Iceland. The officers of my part at the time. Similarly, the Environment and Transport Committee claims that the results of the majority of the sector have been submitted. That's a lot of words. When the vice president of the Committee claims to interview the nuclearon that in the final meters, she experienced the conclusion of the majority of the section was presented, it is a serious statement by a member of the jury as vice president of the Committee, why. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður, Gunnlaugsdóttir, is. Of course, I support the changes in my share of the committee's proposal for the greater part to suggest that four activation options in Skafurtir will not be moved from a waiting party and that the Kulvegucoma will remain in a waiting category, as agreed by Project 3 of the Programme. Madam President. It's really the core I have to admit I don't understand. I don't understand that more part of the Committee goes beyond step three. What have we been doing here for the past few years other than listening to experts and scientists? Is it not best to continue to do so, however, when the majority of the Generals'decisions are made, which are as critical as they are, and respond as hard as we see here outside the House? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Although the Act on Protection and Use of Lands, the Framework, is clear about the decision made by the Generals, that the Council is responsible, we simply cannot handle the changes in the law if they stumble on the judgment of experts sitting on the project - I apologize, Mrs. President, I'm just going to let me finish my shortness - and we're in opposition to the evaluation of a number of environmental groups throughout the country. [[The president calls.]] I'm also going to allow myself to ask, and direct my case to my former partner at the left-hander, ◯ green supply, where are you? [[The president calls.]] Where's the green heart in the movement that was formed around nature and environmental protection? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u71	Madam President. After the tireless struggles of natureists and localists over the last 20 years for the protection of the Lakes of the Shire, the earth's colds of Skavegur, the state of affairs, the country's protection of the earth, that they can escape to the sea for years beyond their own right to exist, and to develop on their own terms, their natural nature, and their waters for the future generation to come, for nature itself. And I would have chosen to the highest. Environment Minister with more seat here under my speech. In the spring of 2002, especially for our promise of protection of the earth, the left movement was a green bid in Skavetir won his election in its first election. As a result, wildnes activation of the Shire waters was decomposed. At that time, a greater part of the General Assembly, two existing administration parties, a forwarding party, and an independent group, tried to run over the population and protection of the rivers through a legal system that was able to stop during the last days of the Council by the Councils of VG days and nights - day and night - which also gave suggestions on the peace descriptions of the river and its lakes. This I recall, for during the 20 years I spent in the rural administration of Tegafur, this battle was fought. The left movement has since become an institution in the political struggle for environmental protection in Iceland. About 15 months ago, I gave as a unit leader in Skavegur, along with my partner in VG, Leifsdóttir, a covert of a frame program that suggested that the earth be protected. It was a paraphrase and clear review. VG refers to a number of social events and controls VG in Tahvetir in recent years to the protection of the earth's glaciers in Skavegur. A subgroup of VGs rejoices that the activation options associated with EMP and Wilding Intensification are permanently beat by the Lakes and the Lakes of the Shire placed in a protective category of the Framework Programme. In the midst of the mighty natural world, the glaciers of Tax are unique and must be protected both from future generations and from the natural environment itself. The setting of activations in the earth's river of Skavegur in the protective party is an confirmation of the unequivocal protection of the region and its social interests for the future in its protection. Today, the left movement's regional organization sent out a green supply in Skave left off the following conclusions due to the payment of a frame plan, by permission of the president: The most green in Skavetir requires a professional assessment of a frame of view regarding the earth's setting and setting up in a protective party. The Lakes, the glaciers, shape the appearance and image of the province's Tegafur, are the basis of the environmental life system from glaciers to oceans. The future opportunity involves protecting them and using them uninterrupted in the face of many outdoor activities, fishing, tourism, agriculture, and other environmentally friendly jobs. The significance of the water supply for feeding fish fish, both freshwater fish and sea fish, is also invaluable. Travellership in Skavetir is growing, with river - moving factors creating the area a special place, one that is unique worldwide. In logical support of the field stratosphere 3 strategium, this includes:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The Shire's Waters area has the highest value of all areas of land dealt with in the trade group 1 to phase 3 and then is the activation option taxation factor C with the second most effective score of all the initiatives discussed by the trade team. The activation option is in a region that is uninhabited under legal definition and the activation of the region would result in considerable noise in the highlands, as well as in permafrosts and other facilities for which Iceland is responsible internationally. Activation would break ecosystems and communities, have a major negative impact on ecosystems with significant protection value under nature protection laws and cause a large imbalance due to changes in flow and production, particularly on efflux plants with high eco-efficiency and the largest impact on the land. At that time, the project could destroy large eastern and western monuments, from 870 to 1,400 C.E., which are even globally unique. There would also be significant impairment of visual diversity and on rare landscapes. ◯ Left green in Butraved a series of logical support for a professional cohort of strategomy 3 and requires that professional evaluations be followed and at the same time the professional agreement to be created as a framework. Left greens of Tahvet lie absolutely against the fact that the glacier will be reassigned from a protective group to a waiting party for the Council's treatment of the framework of Article 3.◯ I now stand here at the Council itself with a proposal for more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee to deliver the Shire's Lakes, the glacier, the protection of the waiting party and the uncertainty as well as the Cold Age in the Upper Sea and other non-terrestrial natural bulbs. There's a step back in the Icelandic nature protection struggle. The Commission's proposal to bring the Shire Lake to a waiting party stands in sharp contrast in view of the unswerving value of the glacier and the methodology used in evaluating protection values. The results of the Commission do not reflect the professional conclusions that have been reached on the protection of the river. This also applies to other areas. That such a committee I cannot stand, suggesting that such a frame plan can't be established or that it succeeds. However, I would like to think that there is also a positive and vital step in the proposal that will lead us to the other locations in the environment, such as my partner and the conservationist. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson went over this way, and he plays a key role in reaching out. There are victories that must also be preserved, followed, and sought more. It is sad, however, that there should be no stronger protection from the two old groups, the forward and independence groups. We are not to accept the vision of the past forces, which include the practical use of Icelandic rivers and geothermals. We know how much energy we produce, we waste a lot of energy. You can do so much better without going through Icelandic nature. Together, we are one of the powerful nature protection companies, those of you who are out here now and protest, wherever you are. May centuries of consciousness then grow and thrive and bring us into the future for our children, future generations, and nature, who certainly own themselves. Here I stand and cannot help but stand by the people who have fought the battle for the protection of the earth in Skavetir, the people who chose me to operate at the General with the ideals that took me into political battles, all the people who have helped the Earth's environmental protection campaign, and who trust in me and others who work here, the people who fight in other places in the country with the same enthusiasm, but not least by nature. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u72	A respectable president. We're here discussing a very controversial case on the protection and energy use of land, a framework of the so-called. I'm not going to go out on a few things, what to do and what not to do, but you have the feeling that certain things are being stretched out for a reservation to call them a different name, so that what has been taken out of the program can be done and should not be carried out. But where should we stand, and with whom should we stand? Yes, we're supposed to be on nature's side. Why? We are under obligation to see to it that we try to keep nature in such a way that we will return it to our descendants in a situation similar to ours. But can we? [[Foreground on: No.]] No, no, no. Far from it. I am of that generation to have seen, since I was a little boy on a farm to this day, a huge change, and an enormous damage to nature. We know this in rural areas when whole ditches were being dug all over the place to drain swamps. We know that nature was not given much respect for nature, and as it is today, nature in Iceland is very much like the nature that I saw when I was a child. Sadly, most of what has been destroyed cannot be fixed in any way. I'm convinced that we should make sure that all these changes, and everything we're dealing with in nature, are made in harmony. We are, in effect, a remarkable nation in that we take heels because we have pure nature and that we have good pure energy, but at the same time we are having a record of our use of nuclear energy, coal combustion, oil combustion. Why? Yeah, because we're selling goodbyes to some mess in the world. We are to show deep respect for our natural world that we use it as effectively as possible, in a more environmental way as we can, and least to sell it to those who are polluting it with nuclear energy, oil combustion, and coal combustion. It's something like that, what to say, cheap enough to allow ourselves to be allowed at the same time, and we're always kissing because we have clean and good energy. Another factor we also need to consider, and it should be over long ago, is the amazing thing that we don't have the distribution system okay, that we should always be starting on the wrong end. I understand it would enhance our energy security if we were to take out our distribution system and get it back in order. It would have been far better since then that this frame plan would have been held, it would have been done better; if it had been more at peace with her, trying to find the most efficient activation option. There are several methods of activation available and new paths are always being discovered, especially if we are to look at the ways that cause the least environmental damage and can, in effect, be done so that when they are removed from use, nature can be eliminated exactly as it was originally. Today, it's mostly the wind power. I had recently been in the Faeroe Islands, and I noticed that it focuses on the tide process. There are a number of things that we can do and watch, and preferably on the grounds that there is no damage to the environment and if there is someone we can fix them up so that they can be fine. I'm not going to have this very far, but I'm going to state that I'm not going to support this case. I'm going to sit with you in most cases. I believe many changes in my part are very good that I will go through and probably support. But the way this is set up here, it is absolutely impossible that I will support this environmental policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u73	Madam President. I wanted to use the few minutes I have left in this important case to thank you. Councilmen for a good discussion. Even if I especially cover my head, there is no leaning. paritaprevir Bjarni Jónsson, an odd compass of the left - motion green bid in the northwestern district. Nothing that has been said here today has changed the view of me and us who are in the lesser part of our lives. The Environment and Transport Committee that it is the greatest failure to move the Lakes to the Shire and the activation initiatives there and the provisional U.S. Preservation System to a waiting party. No evidence has been made here. There has been no evidence of a greater proportion of cognition. Environment and Transport Committee. I pray to what? The members of Congress are now seriously considering any of the changes they may make in support of a responsoring proposal that these benefits will remain in a protective category. It has been submitted and will be planned at the hearing tomorrow, and I'm going to allow myself to hope that it will be approved so that we will not make the terrible mistake of bringing these benefits to the Shire Lakes and U.S. National Institute of Protection, to where they were appointed by the Project Administration after a professional review, to the best of men, with scientific knowledge, that we will not be doing it at the High General Assembly. Here, good people from the nature protection movement have come to impress us today. I want to thank you for that. I'd like to thank you for the fact that many of us in the past have worked here, and so we've been working all thanks to people in nature. I want to finish my case because I thank them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u74	A respectable president. I want to thank you. For a fine discussion of this important matter, members of the council. We know the background. It was taken to this work, which is commonly called a frame plan, with that idea, as it was quite possible. paritaprevir It is possible for KristóferssonMár son to make decisions based on the best possible information. This work is responsible for an enormous amount of information, many professional groups that have worked for it, and then now as a result. Committee of Congress. Looks like we're finishing this now, which is still a respectable president, like a boy. A senator, of course, referred to an imperfect attempt that can always be improved. Since then, it has always been possible for the generals to make a decision with the best information in front of them. The idea was that it was an act of reconciliation, but I don't think anyone dreamed that in such a language, it would be a general agreement or a complete agreement for all things at the time. That's, I'd think, impossible. I believe, however, that it is reasonable, as we have seen here in many cases. Councilmen and the highest. The prime minister and I agree with this viewpoint, and we have learned from this process that it pays to avoid suddenly trying to take this assignment but not to take it in smaller doses. It is very important, however, that we complete a frame plan. It has been tried now for over a decade and it has not been successful because there is no government that has appeared in Iceland that has not been on its policy to use green energy. Why is that? We have very good experience with it and are better than any other country because we have such a high proportion of green energy. It has done so, including. Because of our contracts with the major people we were after a long time ago, we've built an electrical system for the entire population. We live in a relatively large country, a small nation, and it would have been extremely expensive, if not impossible, if we had done so in another way. Overwhelming is an even stronger reason for using green energy and changing energy, and this is climate. It is absolutely impossible that we will achieve the high goals we have set for ourselves that are very lofty, to extract gasoline and diesel, without replacing us with green energy. It's completely impossible, and I don't know that anyone's gonna think of it. But then there is another, because here people have discussed major users, that it is not the idea that the world will fight the climate problem. There is no nation that makes such a move. If everyone would go that way to take their language to other countries, there would be no success. Then the climate problem would complete its conquest. This is something I thought everyone knew. Because here, courageous people went ahead of us, who had to take political battles because of what happened here at the first two energy exchanges, both in charge of the plant and the heating system, we benefit from it. And what has happened here, a respectable president? Some people here say, which was never the idea, that the experts and groups who did this work as well as they are, should decide this for the General Assembly of the Icelanders. That was never the idea. Never. Hv. A panel is here offering a new proposal. I feel that there is something missing in the list when it comes to reviewing the suggestions. Here's a suggestion for a series of activations to be followed by three off-line priming options. I, a respectable president, don't understand why it is not mentioned here by those who criticize this proposal. If there's any reason the experts should always be in charge of this, they'll probably want to continue the rock system. That's obvious. For example, I think it would be wise to take a closer look at it. Then there are the activation steps that went from protective protection - not from protective use, but from waiting protection to take a closer look. There are two options, the Lakes of the Shire and the Cave under the Lakes of the Shire. There are four advantages. Then one option, a respectable president, will be suspended for use. It's Bundle Beard. This is the only activation option to enter a colony, the only one. I'm surprised to learn that more things are happening. The Senate Committee has not provided sufficient evidence for this. Men may disagree with them, but to show up here, a respectable president, saying that there has been no argument or lack of logic, I feel that there is a very unfair saying. Then, more dignified President, and somehow no one has mentioned this, I have not at least heard it here in their critical speeches, there are no less than 28 activation options fell out of a frame plan. This is because I sent a letter to the Power Institute, and please ask them, because they brought this in, to take it out. 28 benefits, a respectable president: Kleak activation, Leukaemia, North-fraine, Cryo-Injury, Cryo-Wave-Insection, Healing, Prevention, Hephosactivation, Selephs reactivation, Berkras reactivation, Nursing, Strayon, Upper Stair, and Lower Steps, Hovering, Hraunaactivation, both in the River Valley and in the Beractafjar, Coal healing, Water Valley, Sundol, Sandyol, Smokebol, Moll, Botach, Gragi, Sandeg, Whoville, Bleak, Strayak. A respectable president. It is absolutely clear, has always existed, will always lie that there are few, not two Icelanders who completely agree on these matters. I think the approach of most people, if not all of us, is: We think it's important to achieve climate goals. We think it is wise to be here with green energy, renewable energy instead of fossil fuels. I don't think anyone wants to go back with that development. But at the same time, we want to treat Icelandic nature well. We are aware of valuables in our vast, beautiful nature. We're all trying to get some balance in this regard. To stand here and criticize men, then why. Senators who did this difficult work in this way do not feel worthy of me. I feel that this has all the symptoms that have been put on a lot of work to try to find a balance, take out certain factors, and take a closer look at them. Well, that's the suggestion. 28 offline priming options, 28. Then there are some of the advantages that are set up, and we are going to take a closer look. One for use. That's what this is all about. A respectable president. It's also surprising, and I just have to ask why these people, especially those in the United States and the Piranians, who are most aggressive, do not act more strongly on their own home field. I watch as a smoker how they do things there. I encourage these influential men to make changes in plans that lead to unscrupulous coasts on the cut - edge. It is not just that the land filling, as the EEA pointed out, will have a negative impact on greenhouse gas emissions in the process of reducing carbon dioxide-staining. Both the EEA and the Natural Science Institute have objective and practical indications that this land fill will have a very negative impact on green areas and on biodiversity. It identifies, natural, because we do not have an endless supply of unscrupulous nature and much less an unscrupulous beach in Reykjavík, that it is not wise to go to these plans to a lower degree. Actually, this is a major environmental disaster. Strategies in open areas - there is something else that I thought those who are interested in nature protection and environment should make their way back. We've got parish instruments, a respectable president, e.g. in transport today, when there is evidence that electrical flights will change and even create a revolution in public transport in the country as an environmental transport problem that will be driven by renewable energy sources with lower cost of operating. So there is the possibility that this will be a real option and a larger alternative for us Icelanders. I think, a respectable president, there's something we should be using for or at least to look at. There have been talk mainly about the electricity here, but there are other factors that we need to keep our attention on. It's a review from Reykjavík's Department, which states that this stage is agreed, that it is really on when it comes to our heating system here in the capital area and other locations. It is a concern if we fail to meet the expected need, since all of us want to do so, and here many talks have been held on to its importance, to improve the housing of the Icelanders, especially in the capital area. Our housing does not improve if we do not see warm water in homes. It's as simple as that. No other conclusion can be drawn when you read this account about the Power Department of Reykjavík than that one of the reasons that it can be done, if not the necessary one, is that we complete a third step. A respectable president. None of the works of men are perfect, even a matter of Congress or a decision. A committee. But I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The environment and transport committee for the job, and that's all you can see, after all the work you do. Senators have put this into practice, but it's been done as well as possible here. Although there are many things to criticize in many directions, I don't think it's unfair to argue that this is not really a matter of integrity to achieve the balance necessary to achieve the climate targets but at the same time protect what we want to protect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u75	A respectable president. Hv. Councilmen, my dear nation. This is what I have to say about this: In order for modern society to walk, safe access to energy is necessary. Its national safety, therefore, needs to be ensured, to provide a balance between demand and supply, and to prevent energy shortages from blocking urban development. It is important that the benefit of energy production falls primarily in the public. This is best done by the country's major energy companies being owned by public, rural, or federal bodies at all times. By so doing, the profits for society and the joint funds of the country are coming directly to them in the form of low energy prices, which are always to be put first. For example, low energy prices are one of the basics of the fact that rich people can live a decent life here. Let's go, Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u76	Mr. President. My first speech accidentally ended up a bit. It turned out that 20 minutes was not enough time to review the issues we discuss here, the protection and energy use of land areas, a frame plan. What I would have wanted to end, and what I'm going to start now is a 3, smaller part of the environment and transport committees I'm ordering on the project as suggested by a greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee. I just think it's important to mention it all. The third smaller part supports further proposals to remove the Bundle from use, but suggests, in fact, by the same logic as most of the segments have provided for the Tankur's development, that Investigation will be replaced by a waiting party. In the greater section's committee program, the reference is made to - to tell the ◯ talk about the way it sounds like there's something ambivalent - that thelasta is in the center of Iceland's highlands and the Wresting of the West and that, as I came into my previous speech, the situation of Induralization changed at the time since it was first classified as a colony. It may be the main concern of negative environmental assessments. This is the first point. Section 3 supports the suggestion of the majority of the movement of the reference wave but gives the same argument that HAB will have the same approach from the waiting energy class. A smaller portion of 3 points has been shown to indicate that whale activation from a waiting category and back by using parallel arguments and the majority of the components is required for other activation initiatives in lower parts of Theth of the Year; it is not possible to estimate the overall estimates of all three lower mechanical activations while moving only two of them to wait. Since there is simply the right effect of the waiting class, all of them must be there to be evaluated together. Otherwise, there is nothing to say about the permit squad or executives in case of seizure reactivation. Then there are two things in the opinion of more things than 3 smaller things. So, on the other hand, this move on to CIIG and the Shire Lakes from a waiting party, which I handled well in a previous speech, is that I'm not going to repeat it, and on the other hand, the third-minder section of the question is the question of moving Burgundy from a waiting party to a novelty party. These are the main points that 3 smaller things have to explain to the suggestions of the greater part. Because I couldn't get anything to the wind in my first speech, I'd like to mention that it's natural to have a frame of motion wrapped around the wind. There is no clear rule for this country to be a full view of its use, and of course, regret that last year's proposals for the then Environment Minister on this matter were not met, both concerning changes in the law that the wind power was clearly heard under the framework and together with a proposal for the overall use of the wind. But the word "wind " in the 2013 framework may well have revealed the speed at which this technology has advanced because, at that time, it was spoken in a committee's list of more times of the time that wind power would be future. Therefore, project management 3, frame three, in effect, was assigned to test driving one or two activation options. The result of the projection was, however, that of the two factors that were considered, another was to become a panoramic energy union, that was a monstrosity, but a Burdund should be placed in a waiting party. The step-by-step design of the fourth-step program was then designed to reevaluate the Buddhist by reevaluation to a waiting class, but on that occasion the activation provider re-enacted the advantage of reducing, shrinking, becoming smaller in scope, and was moved so that he did not face the same indiscretions of those who were enjoying the geothermals above the Borppus station. However, because of this, it is difficult to accept, as suggested, for the changes in the most part, another implementation of Burgundy is difficult to accept, rather than under consideration in phase 3. This is not merely a reference to the modification proposals of more parts, but the number has been changed, the reference to the activation option, so that the more part really regroups another Burgunda. And a well-defined subject also entered a waiting category and is discussed in the current project management of a 5th phase, which is responsible for the full analysis of the activation option, including based on the information presented in a recent study of the United States. So, yes, the reason that the 3rd smaller objects do not support this move on the Burger is not that he thinks it can be a good option, which may work well with the water supply station, which is there in the same area, but simply because it is a doubt as to whether this move is possible, to take it from the 4th stage and move into the 3rd stage for approval. It's like, Mr. President, what I'm going to say. I will then close my case and, of course, encourage members of the council to stand by the framework as tools and help protect us from the political attacks that the government groups offer in order to make adjustments regarding the benefits they want to reduce incursive protection. Our proposal for the Tribals, Conspiracy, and Action, that this category remain unchanged from what a project administration found on a professional basis, will be an opportunity for a body of Congress to speak about which members of Congress are available to stand by nature protection in times of trial.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u77	A respectable president. Mr. President. I present the Committee for Affliction of Committee to Residents on a bill for Grieving Permissions. The bill suggests that parents who lose a child will be assured of so - called grief, license from paid jobs for up to six months following a child's loss, as well as abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy or stillbirth after 22 weeks of pregnancy. The legalization of the bill is thus designed to provide parents with room for grief, processing in the wake of a child's loss, and the experiences of a surviving sibling to adapt to their changed circumstances. This seeks to acknowledge the impact of grief over a child, the loss of family members in general, and thus to strengthen the situation of children and children's families. At the same time, it contributes to a successful return to a job market and to the goal of being active participants. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by visitors, and some reports were received. This is discussed in the Committee, which is followed by a discussion by the Committee on the topic. Wants the committee specialized. In general, the Committee was well pleased with the subject of the bill, and they also gave favorable comments on the subject. In particular, the committee discussed indications presented to the committee that, in addition to those who lose a child, it is equally important to ensure those who lose a mate from a child or children the same right to grieving permit. At the same time, it was encouraged that at the time of the preparation of the Law, the average loss of about 100 children in this year would be at least 100. A second parent from malignancy each year, and the need to ensure the individuals of the same court as those who are scheduled for this bill for the loss of their child on the part of the social and workforce of the Ministry's labour market showed that if the bill was to be checked by law to determine whether the basis is for providing a specific modification bill with the objective of ensuring more families and/or people's permission, the committee will accept the above indications and point of view and will encourage ministers to start working on the legal basis of mourning license with the objective of causing the loss of a mate from a similar rights to their children. The committee suggests a few minor legal modifications to the bill that do not require special coverage. According to the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes presented in the committee's opinion. Under the opinion of the committee publications, as well as the above, c. Councilmen, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir Hjörn Mersteindótttir, Halldorra Mogensen, Orri Jóhannsson, who stands here, Guðný BirnaGuðmundsdóttir and Óli Kárason Kárisson. Mr. President. I came into it earlier in this history that the Commission was generally well pleased with the subject of the bill, and I would like to let myself say, President, that I feel nothing more than that it applies to us most if not all of the members of the Council are here. The next question will be answered. paritaprevir Guðjón Goddess of the Bears.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u78	A respectable president. A bill for grieving license is a good and worthy bill, but it is the result of a missing child's rights that are being promoted by the parents'rights. The law will help meet the loss of parents'income as well as the rights of their parents outside the full - time job market and their parents. The goal of the law must provide parents with room to cope with the grieving process as well as support for surviving siblings in their changed circumstances. This bill is good, for parents have the right to have room and space in the wake of the tragic event of losing a baby or an unborn baby after 18 weeks of pregnancy. The period of grieving permission can last for up to six months because of the medium's child. paritaprevir Orri Páll was present in the case of respiratory distress after 22 weeks of gestation and for two months in case of stillbirth after 18 weeks of gestation. This is especially good, since the rights of those who have had a miscarriage have not been very high under their heads at all. A respectable president. I welcome a controversial bill that will respond well to my parents. After a tragic event, the loss, or the embryo, has occurred.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u79	Yes, Mr. President, I hereby recommend a board of committees for the budget of the year 2022 due to a change in the Council's order and its financial warrants in accordance with the Presidential decision. It is stated in the Commission that, together with the formation of a new government, changes were reported in the Council's System and that values were adopted as a president's section, where changes in administrative issues were made according to the Council's order. This was explained by the change in committee funds for a greater proportion of budgets for the third discussion of the budget by 2022, with reference to Article 2. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. Then the General concluded to support the proposed change in the number of recruitments and their name by resolution since January, and in line with that, the Presidential decision won the value of No. 5/2022, on the switch of Iceland's Commission to the Ministry of Ministers on February 1 of the past day, a new ruling on the switch between recruitment agents and both decisions included significant changes from the previous order in the transfer of governances. At the same time, legal resources and employees must be transferred to the desired level, taking into account the scope of the project and the circumstances. The changes were made in two steps, on the one hand, for the third discussion of the budget. As I said before, and on the other hand, in a bill for a budget I'm here recommending for a committee party there. The objective of these changes is to ensure that the Council of Management will best be able to cope with new challenges that are faced by each individual and new, changing tasks to meet the needs of the times. The number of publishers has increased by one, being now 12, and the number of stewards has increased from ten to 12. It is added to the Ministry of Culture and Business, and to the university, industrial and innovations. The advice of vows was changed by many, and their names are found here in the committee's opinion. It is also published in the report with the bill, and it contains a table that is also included in the Committee, which shows the total financial scope of the changes, except for recruitment initiatives of 133 billion dollars. and to come to the top of the bill when two new departments are made up. The scope of the cultural and commercial sectors is 28 million. K. The new Ministry accepts museums and cultural institutions, along with the media and the affairs of tourism. The subject of the university, industrial and innovation Ministry totals 85 billion. The Ministry presents the university case. Part of the topic of innovation, research, and knowledge centres is also under way. The 2nd budget for the year 2022 provided a proposal of some 450 million. K. contributes to the changed administration order of the Council. At that time, there was not a final internal order for a new scheme. Entry is the current staff and the changed job emphasis, including In connection with government policy, according to the Government Treaty. The priorities of the contributions were at the expense of the establishment of the two new advisers. There, the manager's pay, the secretary, the driver, and the three employees were looked at, and other operating expenses, such as rents, personal expenses, and so forth. There is now a management plan for this new Ministry, and the cost is expected to be about 680 million. K. ... for each Ministry. It is estimated that the annual work of the Ministry of Culture and Business will be 36 more than 38 years at university, industrial and innovation. The financing is already under way, and it is assumed that a total of over a billion dollars will be transferred from another budget of 383 million by the above - mentioned 450 million. K. A commission. Besides, it's 15 billion. K. a year of monopoly on the basis of the purchase of instruments and equipment that remain of 450 billion. K. This publication will be used to address uncertainty about the costs of the changed scheme of recruitment during the year, e.g. due to the housing of the milk council transport. The majority here have several indications, and there is the first reason to believe that the Article with the bill and with the proposal for a resolution to the Commission and Control Committee shows that the aim is, in effect, that the management department is effective, that there are no more demands on the flexibility and ability of the management system. Issue parties on one level to increase, including By maintaining energy and nature protection in the same Ministry, which I think is a good approach, it is the goal of calling for a balance between innovation and protection. The same applies to tourism issues and creative articles within the Ministry, Culture, and Business with the common objective of this important sector to maximise mutual benefits and contribute to mutual solutions for both initiatives to achieve these targets of increased efficiency. The majority of them want to point out the need for more projects to move from individual recruitments to the Management Board Service Centre. About a bridge. At present, the tasks are primarily in information technology, services, real estate operations, including cleaning and operating services that handle telephone responses, welcome services, driving services, and security for ministers. The Society also has a joint P.R. for the whole board of directors. In addition to this, it is important to add to the to-dos in order to prevent increasing the need for the support services of each Ministry. In this regard, it would be especially important to consider coordination, processes and personnel, e.g. We've got a document alarm. Also consider the greater part of a human division to be common with councils, as well as quality and a variety of other internal services, such as accounting, management of business products, and so on. In addition, the printing of aluminium facilities in common, such as the availability of reports, testing readings, and graphics, could be a common source. At present, the State's financial accounting is divided in relation to topic areas, seminars and institutions, and other member states, which are again divided into divisions and individual subjects. The reorganization of the Council proposed in the bill provides an opportunity to change the structure and format of financial information to bring up the expenses and income of individual key tasks. The main purpose is integration of issues and lawsuits in financial and financial programmes. Re-peg art in the building of accounting, in accordance with the methodology for success, suggests the need for more money to reflect the costs of key projects to achieve the goals set out in financial planning at any given time. At the same time, an account or a set of standards must be used to evaluate the goal of reaching goals. We have repeatedly discussed this with a financial committee. When this milestone is followed by two new instruments, there is an opportunity to reorganize their accounts to improve the development of goals, projects for individual topic areas, and topic groups. We're here making a adjustment to the Council's changed system. At that time, facilities and organizational matters were transferred from social and employment markets, the Ministry and Environment, energy and climate, the Ministry to the Office of Ministry, hostilities, and Human Invasion Organization prior to hearing a case of 32, 40, and the Organization heard a case of 17 50%. In the bill, these two institutions are temporarily moved under the administration of the Ministry's infrastructure, a case of 11 30 under the topic range 11, transport and communication. Further financial and economic reviews made it more difficult to understand that these institutions fell under the topic range 31 was changed to reflect more closely on its activities. This change is also more consistent with the international standard used by Iceland's Hauspium for the CRFOG classification, which also includes the category of housing and planning. In addition, the sectoral structure of a group of 0,810 funds is given at a case group of 31 20 greater points under these suggestions and suggests that the bill will be adopted by the changes outlined in the Committee of the greater section. To this end, a respectable president, I suggest that the case be agreed with, and for this, the publication of this publication, please. paritaprevir And Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, the son of Hédin, the daughter of Bort, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Vagn the son of Stefánsson, and Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Aran.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u80	A respectable president. I thank the Honourable Chairman of the Fundament Committee for his story. We're discussing the budget of 2022, and I hope that the chairman of the budget committee will not work with me even if I may be allowed to ask it on a general basis here on a subject that is truly relevant to funding in 2022. But now, in the budget of the year that we adopted here at the General Assembly last December it was very clear that unemployment improvements would be up by 4.6% on the same percentage as public security payments can be seen. On page 134 of the report on the budget and the General agreed to this bill, and for some reason, it chose the highest. sociable and professional secretary of the left green, to go up. It was only about 2% but not 4.6% when he set the Regulation a few days later and I'd like to ask him why. Councilman and chairman of a financier: At the Council of the Council, it is not to be able to trust when such a bill is submitted, whether it is financial or financial provisions, when providing a prime bill with certain grounds, on how the Ministers will conduct their administrations in accordance with these criteria, and if they do not, at least Someone to discuss it here at the General Assembly. It's not what. A senator agreed with me that this must be corrected by a change of law? And if so, it could call on those who say other financial provisions in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u81	A respectable president. This is about to feel like a tourist I'd like to say quite frankly, because here we are discussing something completely different than what we were doing in the budget of 2022, and I just want to say because it's important that we talk about what we're dealing with here because I think it's important that we talk about it. Truly, this is primarily a transfer of funds that we had agreed on regarding a question. The senator to see if the Council of Government and Ministers should comply with the approval of the council? Yes, that's what they're supposed to do. They're supposed to, and I'm just counting on them. A senator has requested this inquiry to the highest level. Ministers and expect to answer, as I do not intend to express myself specifically as to why this was done or not. But I just trust that he will soon find the answers to that question. And then when the answer to that question arises, we can decide whether this needs to be changed, whether it is something that needs to be shown up in financial aid, or whether the minister just solves it himself in his own budget for the next council, a parent's course, the front page of thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u82	A respectable president. I thank the Honorable Director of the Fundament Committee very much for these excellent answers. I'm going to continue to use my trip without shame and see here that I've certainly asked for this matter. The request reads, it is six teams, and it reads: First of all: Why did the minister of basic non-employment increase 2% by Regulation No. On December 29, 2021, about the sum of unemployment insurance, but not about 4.6%, as shown on page 134 of a budget bill for 2022, and secondly, a minister had consulted with other government ministers when he decided to raise basic benefits less than expected with the approved budget of 2022? Third, how much basic non-employment benefits have been lost for months to come from real value. It Is Important to Get This Out and No. 4. How much basic non-employment benefits will cost the real price until the end of 2022 if there's no up-to-date compensation cut in months? And, of course, all I hope is that a minister will respond quickly and correct this, raising the benefits. 5? Why did the Minister not raise the basic non-employment of the same percentage and improvement of social security in conjunction with counter-improvement due to inflation approved at Council 24 May 2022 and here might the minister use the exact drive but could in reality react and decide to increase the improvement accordingly as the social security improvements were increased over time, and the result was, in fact, the correction of this dissociation that I had been able to perform here? And sixth: Does Ministers believe that people of basic noncombatants better tolerate prices than groups directly met by the above laws? Now I think I've already used my trip to give a complete answer to the second one. Hv. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u83	Yes, Mr. President, it's the fact that you use various ways to promote your views, and it's permitted to do so. But I just want to, like, because there was no question directly to me. Rather, I want to read questions that concern this matter and are sent to a minister. That's the question why. Senator. I believe, however, that what we have to do, which is about the government's finances, and we have often discussed in this council hall, especially me and the highest. Minister no, chief. The president here, as shown in a report on this matter, needs to see these things more reflected in financial programmes. We need to see it even more reflected in the law of the law. The big picture is certainly presented in a financial program, so it is now so perhaps that I feel that I can take out the coverage we are considering with the establishment of a new scheme and this development of the Board of Directors, that it is important that we give support, especially as we add to it, and do much more than is done in the Council of Control. There are too many silos and there are too many so it's each with its own while I think many of us, at least See the opportunity to work across the Ministry with much more than we already have and much more than we even expect. So that is perhaps what I would like to say in my earlier talk about this matter, that it is our further pushing them, getting clear and clear information about how they have been successful, and how they aims with just the streamlined Management Board to do Chinese language.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u84	A respectable president. Set here as a surrogate of three Kristrún Frosti's daughter, a member of the Continental Committee of Fundament. I'm going to bring her committee opinion of a bill to the budget for the year 2022. I think I'm not running anything. I'm just moving in all of it. There is a provision for a so - called technical budget that no financial warrants are available. Rather, councils are only divided into this bill for a financial supplement to represent the current approach of the government. The amount of money is transferred between institutions, are repeated committees, and are determined to engage in a series of high - scale attacks on the government system within a few weeks, but little is heard from them on the issues that really burn people in these days. The standard of living in this country. In this bill for financial support, there is no anticipated change in budgets despite a far more difficult situation than when budgets were approved for a New Year's Day. Nowhere was there a Senate case associated with the economic situation of the government's Constitution long after spring, despite the repeated cry of action by the government against it, was it due to local elections when inflation was 7.2% after six months of high inflation appeared a so-called specific action on the table of the government. Better late than never and better than nothing. But it's a disappointment, in terms of my 1st share. The neighboring countries have presented each pack of action after another. We're looking at the same delay as two years ago in a pandemic inflation. Today, the result of government economic operations was that emphasis was made on the general use of money policy support, rather than quick and reliable intervention by special measures during a pandemic season. The same government is now cutting down 2 billion dollars. in the public housing system, according to a financial programme. This assumed that the housing team is the main reason for inflation and in spite of the pleas of a minister for massive official structure in the coming years, there is either no intent on making it impenetrable or infrastructure. A minister has simply limited space in the economic policies that are being guided by one category. It is difficult to take the right and well - timeed economic action when economicism is vague and random. The government operates right political affairs in financial matters, where financial ministers stress property sales and tax exchanges to the best of their ability, but from time to time correct it by socialism, emphasis when the public is being banned. The basic policy is controlled by the Independence Party, but the left green patches are in between, allowing the face to escape for a corner for a little while. Then, with a spirit of cooperation, progress flows along. This random policy takes on a tremendous amount of money because there is no agreement in how the economic issues are too long taken in response to a situation requiring quick response on the part of the government, whether it is a pandemic or inflation, inflation, loss of opportunity, pressure and dissatisfaction that can result in overexpliction in pay requirements and cost later when this is added to an inexplication that has occurred in our welfare system for the past decade under the autologous direction of the Independence Party in cooperation with the development of green in the late 1990, it is difficult to see that it will be possible to overcome feelings of indiscriminate. The side of the board is broken and unable to take real action to correct agglutination in our welfare system after cutback, creating pressure to attack short-term animals. The current financial program is to form little more than a document in which systematic growth takes place. Reports are provided on the cost of state funds to 2050, where the present system is only extrapolated and the result is insuficient, just as present economic and welfare policies fell from the heavens. But then it's forgotten that our systems are ours, they're designed by people who control here. It takes to update our systems solely according to inflation and raise. If they're not sustainable. In the current picture. The problem is that the government has undermined the capacity to keep the actual income as a share of land production that will be the lowest in the century at the end of this terms. Tens of billions have been deliberately removed from the financial foundation of the government during the past few years without any conflicting income. The government is constantly saying that governments are about to be costing themselves or inflation. The outsides control most of them. The response is to place a wealth of government in an even tighter straitjacket to exasperate dissatisfaction among those who work in our welfare system and those who make use of the ministry. This is in order to meet the demands of those who truly control income, hold up money, increase in the cycle of life, and no one understands why dissatisfaction increases and the systems become more fragile. In the end, the secretary of finance says that the government has a wise economy, which will only take the heads of other administrations. But here no one takes the real responsibility, no offence, no guts to affect the basic problems, only a policy of keeping state activities in check and reducing the share of government funds in the economy and half-group by 50s, reported the other two groups, in kind, to save their face from time to time with quick solutions, perhaps the most remarkable thing to see how the government introduces measures presented in the development of rural elections as specific measures that have not been financed but are said to financed by the media's reserve fund, most quickly in the current prices. Environment. Most of that package turns on improving disability and sensibilities for inflation. It is under law to protect this group from inflation and to bear in mind that they are only clearly written in 69 C.E. set the social security policy to ensure that the amount of money in the social security system should ensure that they are in line with the development of pay or inflation. If she's taller. Then it would have been against the law not to do so. There is nothing specific when newsworthy about going to the law and respecting the rights of people in a welfare community except in a government where the right side of economics is so vast that it takes a class that teaches itself on the left to make sure that the foundations of our welfare system are respected, that it is actually a law that began to become half a year, and pressure on government goals is not to balance government budgets, as it is now heard in many places. The objective is to be in the service of the people of the country and to protect our community, how we achieve the objectives in a way that is sustainable and contributes to economic equilibrium, to turn toward the growth level, to charge, to taxation, and to use the instruments and tools available to achieve the government's chief objective to service the public and to build the foundation on which the private sector grows. The system works both ways. The crisis that now controls the economy and has established the economic policy in the rear of inactivity will therefore only take the price. Thus, people's well - being will be affected not only by income but also by social culture. It's the vicious circle in which the government is in and must break. Let them read on the committee of a distinguished member of the council, a Kristrún Þórsdóttir. Takes a noble sixth.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u85	President. This case is a very good example of a certain political one, the political one, to choose just the arguments that fit each case, not necessarily the arguments that argue, but maybe the arguments that fly. But last December, Prime Minister proposed a form of administration adopted at the General Assembly of the 26th January European Parliament. The proposal suggests that the changes mentioned are especially fallen so that, by permission of a president, in the petals here, the invisible walls of civilization fall. Changes contribute to cooperation, coordination and coordination within the board of directors. Those are very beautiful words and good goals. But really, what is behind this? Human rights. Men, men, human rights, human rights contracts, and equality have been brought to the Ministry of Presidency because it is within the interest of obvious agreement with the Ministry of Presidency. This is the evidence that human rights belong to the Ministry of Presidency, and these are believed to be issues of human rights, working areas of recruitment across the board and the rural communities of the country, as in resolutions and prime ministers. But now there is also a personal protection of human rights and saving the workings of all the councils and rural members of the country, yet there is a personal protection at the Ministry of Justice. The same argument, second outcome, as with the 9th consecutive general debate on government activity, as shown by Presidential decision No. 6/2002, this is not also the work field of any scheme, where the Ministry of Economics for the Workspace but the Climate Issues, according to their priorities and the need to respond to all the initiatives that might cause. One project is from the Ministry of Presidency, which is to enforce the laws and regulations for preparing, a administrative bill that is being done in all legal matters. The evidence is that such a project, using a range of resources, is transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Justice. I see that it's been following a dance role model. Will any new argument that is drawn from a very classic argument that just as the North countries do, our uncles know better and more, although they intend to import everything they do, it is automatically correct. Clearly, this is a matter of choosing arguments that fit the conclusion rather than the reasoning that argues. This is a contribution to the funds discussed here, and we will find the financial provisions that follow this decision to reorganize a scheme. The majority of the committee insists that the target of the changes is rented, ensures that the Management Board will best deal with new challenges we face at one time and face new challenges and change of assignment to match the needs of each time. Quoting a similar statement from a synoptic resolution of the changing order of recruitment is concluded, but in a paper with the proposal specifically referred to the General Commission's report on the causes of the fall of Icelandic banks with permission, which shed light on the severity of serious problems in the Icelandic government system, especially in the lack of coordination and cooperation of governments who carried the duties and the ability of the administration to react and policy. How ironic it must be, then, that one of the first things to take place after these organizational changes, which are to promote better cooperation, consultation and coordination, still again and again, are to sell banks despite full consultation between the Bank Office and the Ministry of finance, according to Bank Office, at least. Thus, this attempt to destroy the invisible walls of civilization has failed when it was first tried or that the problem may be not with the institutions, but in the Polish, who do not seem to be able to operate on professional practices. When it comes to the most important things. Thus, it is considered a lower part that some of these suggestions are probably good while others raise questions, as noted in the discussions on the government proposals they are responding to. The suggestion, however, is short - lived, and without measuring goals in order to assess whether the benefits of costing nearly a billion dollars a year to these changes can be determined. The responsibility for this action is entirely in the hands of the government and members of the administrations, and I completely reject the administration of the changed order of counsel, and I still object to these extra costs and expenditures, so another I will make a recommendation by simply rejecting this matter. Then why not? Tenth. South, Guðbrandur.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u86	A respectable president. We now discuss a legal case, say financial contributions, but, in reality, it is not in my mind that financial contributions from one government to another due to the changes the government decided to make when it was made, and it is, of course, the custody of every government to decide who the seating vessel is and by what means she intends to work on her own business as well as work on her goals. So it is not unusual for the government of any particular time to make a decision to change the practice of the advisers, so in itself it is just a form of custody. But somehow you experienced it when this all started up after you thought it was a long way to think that the formation of this government, when, as was really enough time to create this government because of the insurrection that occurred in the citynes, it took just a long time to get this together which made a man see full of doubts about the meaning. Was this government being rounded up and any group of ministers that fit in with the outcome or outcome of the election conducted in September? Me? I think many of us had a suspicion that the chair exchange was much better than the projects to take on so that perhaps the first thing I thought of was when it comes into the table for the last budget, and as it has been mentioned here, some 450 million were expected to work on it, and there it was put into some category called specific budgets, and it seems now to a man that the extra party has taken more money and that I don't know what the ultimate cost will be, because this new Ministry of the Nine Ministry. This is quite a bit of money, and it seemed to me at least the wrong priorities at this time, and I'm not going to spend much time just discussing it now. Of course, we've been working out our priorities for the whole winter and all that, but we're going on this project, finishing it. But we were discussing this in March, and this may have taken a while. I remember my speech in September, at which point there was some word on priorities, and it was not for certain groups, but for the billions in the election season, for the change of chairs and for ministers. But I think it's a valuable time to be trying to figure out that we've been wasting our views over the course of it all winter long. But this is a fact, and we'll just be there. I don't see that it's going to be gone because all winter of the city's employees have been sweaty trying to get their arms around this project, and I'm sure it didn't go very well. There have been conflicts, and even workers have not known where to meet the work. It may take time to put your arms around it, but it may tell us: The assignment was not well prepared. I think the only thing that was actually prepared was the inside of the Ministry. We had already talked about it, or it had already been said that it was the right thing to move a certain assignment into this department Ministry and strengthen it, and since it would be the inside of the Ministry, so I think it was the only agency that had any choice. I think that everyone was aware that there would be a ministry but that the other Ministry of Culture and Business I have not been able to find out what the purpose of setting up culture and business was. I just can't get it. I could have quite seen that the financial minister was just a businessman, too, as has often been a minister of finance and commerce, so I don't agree with all of this. But I'm just, I'm not in charge. I'm in my part at the council, and this will be the work of the greater part of it to be responsible for this and when he is required to answer what he has returned. We're not seeing the results of this yet, but we're going to sit down and we'll see if this has worked and will have yielded to the results. It is referred to in the opinion of the greater part that it is required to create an increased flexibility. We also hear that a certain government agency is going to look at the potential for a long-term job, and it's just the good thing, that it's a new creation worth looking at, and if it's going to happen, it's just going to be fine. But until now, I don't want a lot of people to doubt that this was the right procedure, especially in view of the fact that when we're in the budget, the situation is very difficult. We have certain groups of people who were having a bad time. We had to pay a great deal of what was so called a Jónína bonus to the poor guys before Christmas. But at that time, money was being set aside for what we thought many of us were, not what should be at the top of the list. It simply meant that you did not feel that money was being taken care of. Of course, this is just the right way when this decision has been made to do so, to place money in on the issues and litigations to be carried out, so it is only to react to the changes that have been made and hopefully. I hope we're not throwing money away. Hopefully, some results will be obtained and will improve the activities of the administration. That. It's just that it has to be discovered, and this more part, of course, that he's responsible for this and will just finish this project with a vote. I don't know when it'll be coming tomorrow, but I didn't support these changes when they were made and I won't do it at the last payment. There's no more noises and beds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u87	To speak, Mr. President. You can find larger fans of the Icelandic fishing system than I do, and it is of course very happy that with the energy of marine vehicles, you have succeeded and succeeded each year in finding more ways to use the resources of the ocean in a sustainable way in favour of this bill. Of course, it is time to rejoice, to experience how extensive their debates are still under way, and to know that they do not look for anything to come to an end. This, of course, is a door - to - door review of the law or work in that direction. A food minister has already begun, and I have now benefited from taking part as a substitute at that group's first meeting, and I have to say that I like the way that that this matter is presented, but I have to say that I allow myself to be cautious about being careful about the chances of major changes being likely to come out of that direction, even though I believe that many reasonable minor changes could still have a beginning in that process. It is facing, and it has been repeatedly pointed out by the delegates that the best way to cope with change and the long range of pain will be remembered for this fundamental work of the nation. I would be experimenting with the distribution of species that have not been used before. It is in this context that I would like to or in the context of this bill that I would like to mention that here we are once again missing out on such opportunities, although underneath there are no major species. Of course, it would have been possible for the distribution of these rights to be different from the one that has usually gone away. I'm sorry, but there will not be any changes without considering it, so when opportunities arise, I pause here to remind myself that the best way to experiment, unlike or change the arrangement for these rights process, would be to experiment when opportunities arise to assign unexploited species that are applicable in other cases under discussion here today. There have been many reports on this subject in recent years. A great number of suggestions are made in different formats. I especially want to call attention to a proposal presented in 2013. This suggests that it was proposed in a process that is in all respects comparable to the process proposed by the Food Minister today and was then called a meeting ground for increased prosperity. But in connection with that work, there were some, produce proposals for changing the fishing system, which had just been very comfortable to expand new species and, as previously said, stand to make changes in this system, and it is certainly committed in the Treaty of the current government. Then it is obvious that taking advantage of opportunities like what we really are doing today would have been very desirable. The arrangement is in short, so that instead of the distribution there is decided to be distributed by a comparable rule as laid out in the b-dr. the bill, except that the rights are private and therefore protected by the constitution which would follow a measure of protection compared with the rights being proposed here to assign to the preparations to which they still receive the rights are temporarily opposed. This system would be fully expected to fall on the basis of a fiscal sector, the current policy and method of distribution. It would really be possible to use the exact same arrangement for all the distribution of the pantheon, pardon, all distributions of targets and trades with the market, and, indeed, through a business share-in. The difference would be, in short, that the rights were assigned to a particular period of time by a contract, and the agreement was between the structure and the public and therefore the legal rights of the Constitution. But I think there is reason to mention this here because this solution may not have had enough coverage, nor may it have the advantage that it could be used in an experimental way, even though it would be of minimal interest, without the obvious damage to the mobilization but, contrary, it would follow certain protection against other undignified, potentially predictable changes in the system that will be carried out in the coming years. More have.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u88	A respectable president. I recommend a change to the bill to correct a law on the return therapy of loan institutions and stock companies' stocks and investment insurance laws. Fundamental funds will be returned to financial companies in the financial sector. Key elements are: Here is an adjustment to a minor and legal proposal. It is designed to clarify the subject of the bill and does not require any specific consideration. I suggest the adjustment will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u89	A respectable president. I recommend a change to the bill to legalize the changing of the various financial markets, induction and so forth. The adjustment is minor and legal. It is designed to clarify the subject of the bill and does not require any specific consideration. I suggest the adjustment will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u90	A respectable president. I'm here taking for a commission on bill to legalize crews from more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee has reviewed the situation and had its meeting of the Árni Bjarni Bjarnason and the Árni Sverrisson from the Coroner's Society and Guðmundur Helgi Þórarinsson, from a member of the motorman and metal technicians. The Commission reviewed that dissatisfaction of the bill among the rightsmen was due to a charge on the design of fishing ships, and in this relationship, the primary concern is that the bill will not be deemed to meet the security of fishing vessels. Thus, in view of the above, it is important that the majority of the material be judged to be responsible for the bill taking on a significant step toward increasing safety to the sea. However, it is clear that a comprehensive view of fishing vessels needs to be made to improve the work environment among sailors and rights. However, in view of the greater part, the approved bill will not be prevented. A greater proportion of the committee suggests that the bill will be passed as it were written by Vilhjálmur Árnason, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótttir, Bjarni Jónsson, signed here, Njálíli Friðbertsson, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, speaks of less parts and surroundings.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u91	A respectable president. This bill went to a committee between the second and 3rd because the Council received a distress call from those who protect the interests of the people who appoint an Árni. There were men seeing the management society, the motorman and metal tech society, Iceland's Seaman Union, a company. Here it is twice. Well, the members of the High School of Accidents and the head of the school sent letters to the General and warned of matters on the bill, saying that the matter should not be approved. Therefore, the matter was called back to the committee, and we met at the Environment and Transport Committee on Saturday was the sailor's Day weekend itself, and so we could, as noted in the speaker's discourse, the more environmental transport committees at the Committee's meeting, the Árni of Bjarnason and the Árni Helgi Þórarinsson from the Board Management Society and the Guðmurnarsson from the rock - mass of motorman and metal tech, and I don't quite know how to describe the discussions there, since we all agree that it would be better to reach beyond the points where the members of the audience would feel that it would be more difficult to resolve any of these conversations in the future. I'm not that optimistic. But now I'm going to stop talking from my own breast and I'm going to explain to the committee as well as to me that the Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, along with Jakob Frímann Magnún Magnússon, an audience who claims to be the following. Then there are the viewpoints that came from these six companions. It speaks of the need for the design of a card to be released outside a fishing vessel, such as other ships, to prevent the reduction in crews at the expense of rest and work loads, and there we are talking about a massive struggle between sailors and fishing, about operating savings, something that needs to be handled properly. There is some disagreement in the Committee as to whether seamen law should deal with this, rather than with those existing laws. I just don't necessarily think that's important, because as lawgivers, we look at the whole set of laws and use them to protect the rights of the law. Another factor was the opposition of this party to the exception and design and the role of the hidden members of the House, as it is necessary for professionals to be allowed to arrive at the care of these barriers and differences from my design. We discussed this in the second discussion. The adjustment of this material did not result in a starting point; unfortunately, it is suggested that the length of the time for small vessels be up to a maximum of 14 hours with reduced design. It describes opposition to the authority of a sailors to perform the worker's work opposition to avoiding having motorists in a small ship, opposition to that, the owner of a boat may be one for more than 14 hours, saying that important safety factors that became not just the owner of itself but all sailors, and at the same time contrary to shipping rules and seamen's rest period laws. We in our smaller section do not take sides with all these concerns, but we appreciate that just the discussion that interests have not been given an appropriate audience. Today, the views of crew workers have been met with the bill, and this is in itself a serious problem in the treatment of the problem. These are considered to be the vast still existing material involved in such fundamental interest for those who work aboard ships, that in the smaller sections we simply do not believe that there is a basis to handle the matter adequately at the time left of this 152th legislation. That's less than 24 hours now if everything goes according to plan. However, we point out that the bill has been through the second discussion. It has been passed through a large conference treatment, so further adjustments have been made in various technical aspects of the bill, so we have a bit of basis for maintaining the Ministry's work which could then be used to speed up the work that lies ahead and just supply the case again in the fall, finish or just speed it up, and I don't know if our position in the smaller section was colored by the date of the seaman's previous day. Somehow, this issue takes place on either side of that day. But we note in the commission that it is cold greetings that most things send out to sailors the day after a sailor's day by laying down such unsatisfactory efforts because they have the opportunity to listen to what we believe to be the legitimate criticism of the seafarers'basic legislation for the fishermen who pursue their interests. Instead, the greater part selects to scour away from these seamen's stakeholders, and we in the smaller part cannot participate in such payment, suggesting that the bill be referred to the government and commissioned to consult with the interest groups, the advice necessary to achieve the reconciliation so important that a state with which the legislation is directly involved. So many were words. Mr. President. That's all there is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u92	A respectable president. I thank the President for introducing me to a game in case I call myself here only to say a few words on this matter and perhaps reanimation of an emergency call received from a seafaring group asking for votes against the bill that is being passed here. We were e-mailed, and it sounds clear to us when they presented a respectable environmental and transport committee this weekend because they specifically believe that the proposed change in the laws of the laboured seas and other things to be home to a man without rights to perform a ship less than 19 hours must not be legalized. It is that in spite of a law set, on ships of the fifth, 15 m or less, who have a time of sailing for 12 months during the past three years are permitted to perform the driver's position, the extended ship is less than 19 hours. It is that a person who has been out for 18 hours can, as it were, work for himself. They are representatives of the management board, head of the social club, head of the club, motorman and metal technology, chairman of the Iceland's Marine Union, chairman of the Administrator and Marine Society of Grindasvík, and president of the Iceland's Seaman Society who sends an emergency call to delegates, a signal under the monuments no Wednesday in e - mail, telling these sailors that at the same time working, the seafaring plan of the seafarrants should be employed by the legislators here, the conference plan to put in a lawless individual in charge of a position. If they want to appear in a report with the bill that 50 ships have taken place along the shores driven by fatigue and the work load of ships 15 m and less. In spite of this, it is suggested that the outdoor period of a small ship with reduced design be up to 19 hours per 24 hours. This is a major concern, and I cannot help but take to heart the warnings of those who are best familiar with the situation at sea. We can do this better, and we should be able to do better, and we should do better. This is an important safety issue. I agree with the sailors there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u93	A respectable president. I'm here recommending the Commission's opinion as a reminder of the change form from a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, and the Commission discussed new issues where this is a case presented by the Committee, which was reexamined on the matter and the more part of the Environment and Transport Committee presented. There are two reviews, and one from a carp fix ohf. And an energy company from Reykjavík together and then the rest from Landing. The bill responds to EFTA comments to ensure adequate implementation of Directive 2009/31/EC for ground carbon dioxide storage. It is thus suggested that, instead of the term substitution laid down in the law, a storage unit should be provided for wording in accordance with the directive. The Commission has reviewed the matter again, as I came in, and to a greater part the importance of harmonizing wording with the EU directive and ensuring the proper implementation of the directive. This ensures linking with the EU's emissions business system and creates financial incentives for subsidence and storage of carbon dioxide through its resulting environmental benefits. The more part contributes to a few additional changes that are then all of us in line with the changes we're suggesting in the bill. That it was just there was revealed in a lecture or would have more people put it, change the wording in more places, and suggest that these changes are proposed in order to ensure harmony and suggest that the case will be agreed with this change and that these changes are made in the Committee. But under the committee, along with the one standing here, Björn Jónsson, the daughter of Halla Kristjánsdóttir KristoffIngibjörg who is the son of Ísrael's son Njáll living Nælíl Trausti Friðbertsson, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, and the órum of the Sveinbjarnardóttir's daughter. Takes it. 8th yrs Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u94	President. This is a very positive and important subject, and it's a real pleasure that it is such a coincidence that I stand here to be able to express myself in connection with this law. This company, kap fix, is springing out of research and cooperation with a geographer, the division of Iceland's University and the ECU of Reykjavík, and is in a somewhat recent and different way taking steps to reduce the problems mankind faces because of the rising concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. This consists of what we can call countermarital action. One way or another, the idea is to capture and install carbon dioxide. The bill uses the term storage term rather than those familiar with the project prefers to use the term disposal because, unlike the solutions offered by some of our neighboring nations, including Norwegians, this is not a storage case in any sense of the word, it is the carbon dioxide that is given through the process developed in this cooperation with the earth, where it is converted to rocks and stored if we want to use it at a time of Earth, which I believe is such a period, that we do not classify it as a normal storage project, but rather a lot of disposal. It's if we get our car into storage and have access to it in a million years. Then I'm afraid there's a disposal in our mind. It is in this progressive legalization of the Allied Council of Iceland. Thus, Iceland for geological reasons is not a lucky, suitable place to do the work being done here and to do so as well as to benefit mankind from all but also Icelandic employment here. This will provide the opportunity to use natural processes to create valuables and value through methods available nowhere else. I only mentioned earlier that our neighboring nations, such as ours. Norwegians have been offering similar services. In their case it is actually a storage case where the carbon dioxide is pumped into oil wells, such as blowing it into a large bottle, screwing the cap on, hoping that best while Iceland's case is, as I once did, that this carbon dioxide is being taken out of circulation and its emissions will not be possible, except at the same time 18 people, which, in all the natural sense of our time, is simply a permanent solution. The opportunity is a very big project that may especially need to be believed that this adjustment occurs, called a greeting, and is a cooperation project of several people who are involved in transporting carbon dioxide from the sources that are found elsewhere, the pump and land in Iceland and throwing it away in ways that I have previously described, and setting up the necessary infrastructures that are needed for these activities to take place. This project is located in Straumsvík, will become a lift rod for working in the Southnes as part of the new creation that is taking place and is positive for the job life there as a project will reach its total level as a stroke in the total carbon emissions of Iceland. Now I'm not gonna belittled that Iceland's international emissions are not extensive, but this project is huge on Icelandic scale, and it's very important that Icelandic innovation companies enjoy that there are sometimes short invitations and decisions in Iceland. So I would especially like to talk to those who have been present at the council for making it happen quickly and safely so that the technical advantage of this company has become useful in building a green business as best it will be. There is also reason to mention that in this case it is very important for companies such as man, trigger, and project to say that the carbon phase of the project itself is least. That's why I know about finding solutions to the carbon dioxide transport in as eco-friendly as possible, which means that the project can also be used as part of development for energy exchange in the marine soil. It is a large freighter that will be used for this project, and the idea is to change their old - fashioned power engines in a way that allows them to use renewable energy. Of course, it would be best for that energy to be produced directly in Iceland or from Icelandic raw materials and the Icelandic electronic energy that were converted into chemical energy, and it is a subject of reflection, although it is not directly related to this project but also to energy exchange in marine outlets where we really sit down with considerable cost or considerable investment in the shipflot that already exists, and if you can find solutions to innovations and particles such as the technology that are developed in old machines for which they can drive the fuel from sustainable energy. It would, of course, be a lot of news and would be very supportive of Iceland's project on emissions in general. We know that the technology may also be useful in the parts of the transport system in a country that cannot be powered by present technology, and therefore, it is entirely reason to fancifulize a body of Congress after discussing the opportunities here and to make it necessary for Iceland to maintain this initiative, both because of our desire to create acceptable conditions for future generations on earth, but also to create Iceland as a source of solutions to solve these vast problems facing the world. So to draw this together very pleasantly to be in this hall and to participate in decisions about this great national battle that I am convinced that the members of Congress that it will support may be proud to have participated in in the years to come. No more calls have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u95	To answer that question, what do you think? 1st. That's the north side. Ingibjörg, six times. A respectable president. I recommend, on behalf of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee for Committees on Elements for a bill to correct a change in the protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 48 from 2011 on the increase in activation of operations. The main factors are that the bill involves a change in the value range of laws on protection and energy efficiency, No. 48/2011 1 and earlier said that unless there is an increase in the number of already operating activations that are subject to the law, as long as the enlargement does not involve large areas. The committee discussed the matter and attended a visitor's meeting, as well as some comments were received. This is reported in a committee study, followed by the Commission's discussion of the matter. In particular, the Committee wants to set two factors, one in connection with growth, target water sources, and in terms of debridement of land beyond protection and energy efficiency programmes. As for the first thing about increasing activation in the water area of During winter, attention was given to the community's review: Nature would make the bill that the law would have the desired expansion of the hydropowers in the river's water fields will be granted to a series of pathways. So the bill would have to be taken into account, especially on whether the enlargement of the plans is profitable, carried out, and their relationship with emphasis. Nationalization was in the bush. This point was considered by the committee and requested further explanation of Landing for enlargement plans in the waters of the Red Sea. In view of these, a greater proportion of the committee estimates that the enlargement, plans are profitable, alone in view of the growing force that will be introduced into the company system. The company's growth is important to react to the variable demand for electricity, so that the transport is not slowed. Based on the above, the main estimate of the proportion of the required enlargement regimens should be followed by complete non-adverse measures. It is thus important to keep in mind that cooling would result in an environmentally damaged area. The majority of the objects in this issue are marked by the emphasis displayed on the bill. There is a need to increase the intensity of the target when the damaged area is increased. For the second thing, on decomposition of land beyond protection and energy efficiency programmes. It is suggested in the bill that the land does not fall under protection and the energy efficiency programme has already been compromised because of operating activations and will depend on a plan for size. However, it was agreed on by the Commission that enlargement of activation almost by recruitment or activation of the Energy Agency in accordance with an agreed primary structure should not require protection and energy efficiency programmes. In view of the above points, the majority of the components feel that it is proper to establish the importance of a comprehensive interest assessment for the activation of uninvolved areas. On the other hand, with the bill, the goal is to facilitate the expansion of the focus of the focus sector, the fundamental differences, the corrosive areas of land, and the damaged areas of land. The greater part of the requirement for protection and energy efficiency is binding to the development of planning plans as well as to the development of rural management, shall agree with current strategy for the protection and use of energy efficiency programmes, cr. 1.mg. 7. No. 48/2011. What was the change in the bill? At that time, the majority of the committee contributes to one change of 1. the bill involved in the role of the Power Agency in evaluating the loss of activation under protection and energy efficiency programmes. The Committee gave a view that the role of the Agency would be compatible with the EEA's administrative role under the legislation on water management, No. 3, about 36 in 2011. It also showed that it is important that the assessment of the Energy Agency should take into account the information given by the Institute for Organization and the Institute for Natural Sciences of Iceland. In view of this, 1 mg is suggested. The bill is added to a new committee where it is recommended that the Agency consult both the EEA and the National Institute of Natural Sciences of Iceland before making a decision on the basis of this Regulation. According to the above, more part of the environment and transport committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the change that has been identified. Under the view of a greater proportion of the committee's publications, as well as the above, c. Senators Bjarni Jónsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Helmi Friðbertsson, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Þorbjörg SigríðurGunnlaugsdóttirdótir Gunjullóttir, and Thorran, Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir, in advance. You're going to say what. Tenth. Smoke. n., Ingi In Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u96	Mr. President. I, I appreciate the opinion of my share of environmental and transport committees less than of a good man. There I am alone, but we in the midst of it no, and there is some end of assembly. I believe that growth in current activations is the exception of some heavy process in cases where enlargement does not mean that new areas are disturbed. Let's just think about it for us, you've got a dam. Whatever it takes to do is just stuff a little more turban into it. Then all of a sudden, it just heals up a lot of new energy. Then there must be a positive achievement, not having a lot of activity around but just to make sure that there is not a rift in the region involved. It is important to do as the greater part suggests, make clear that the permission of the Power Institute is to look for information from the EEA and the National Environmental Protection Agency of Iceland. These things don't happen by themselves. We need to take them out, because it's so easy for the system to forget about nature's interests when economic progress is involved, Bragi needs things all too often. The Commission reviewed concerns that if the bill were to develop new and increased pressure on the initiatives to increase the already activated water supply, you will have more water in the river to further tread on yourtrubs. The Society of Nature Cave pointed out that out of the four activation initiatives discussed in the bill's bill, there are three water - power workers who intend to expand in the Tung year, where all the basiss for activation would be changed if the concept of the herding herd were taken, and I have to say, President, that as long as nationalisation, these ideas are maintained or their obsessions to destroy Injords by providing water in the area of the Red Sea, whether it is known as the Norlinium Age or bush. I think she'll find a new name. If this is not enough, then anything that may possibly be related to these projects is met with suspicion. So the Commission received a memo from Land induction that tried to dig for money calculations and how this could possibly have an effect, and it stated that while cooling provided, water use would be improved in the Red Sea and thus the potential for more money, it would not be essential for such growth. This is gonna make all your worries. Although it is not necessary, it is expanding, there is a profit - making hope that could be useful and we need to consider this discussion in the context of the findings that the management groups find out about the frame of our discussion earlier today in 332. The pressure is beginning to be successful, and in view of the fact that this decision will not be presented to the committee until just in the last few days of the council, the committee in my opinion has not had anything to do with the complete development of the increase, knowing that this idea suddenly became more intimate when the administrative body decided to move the bush, caught one step closer to reality. It is true that the majority say that this bill does not cover the bush, and it is true that bush would never become part of the expansion process. However, it will not be overlooked that economic pressures and political pressures would increase in the application of love in the late stages of a frame plan. With the possibility that, suddenly, three activations of the Þjórður will become more profitable if there was just more water in the Þjórður, then only a much more pressure will be put into operation, which adds to the water in the Þjójódra. In this light, in view of the time we don't have, I couldn't measure the opinion of the greater part in a case that surfaces just pretty positive, unfortunately. But this is how a complex environmental and transport committee has become when decision-making for the conference, a suggestion for a frame plan is made on questionable grounds. We'll be a little stressed about the most unlikely things connected with a frame plan in the least possible way. Then why not? 8th yrs Smoke. s., Daði.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u97	Kristófersson's son. President. I think I'm too late to count it. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi thinks he's a paradigm. But I'm here to revise the council for this change that I think is very positive, and it's actually quite surprising that the narrow narrow narrow size of the report is listed in the list of the importance of these changes in the framework for electricity production in Iceland. Now it's like I'm educated in this field and educated in Norway. Norwegians were now so grossly looking at 50 years ahead of us in their electricalization and are far beyond the use of water resources that have been used by Icelanders, so they are far beyond the use of all the energy that is available to them or to all the water resources that can be used. Of course, many would say the wrong thing. What has been discovered, however, is that changes, such as those discussed here, had a tremendous impact on both energy production in Norway, and it was particularly about uplifting the technology of old hydropower workers, but also on increasing the installed power, and this was here to discuss the association of these decisions with communication. However, this is based on several misunderstandings that are necessary. Today, we are not in the same situation as Norwegians, but what was discovered in Norway was that a water supply system is always more efficient in its nature than its production capacity to cope with fluctuations in the bioavailability of water or waste in the lakes between years. In a few moments, it's quite remarkable. Even 20% has been mentioned in this context in connection with a discussion that took place a few years ago but did not end with any decisions, and it is uncertain whether they will ever be accepted into the link between the Icelandic electrical power system and the British electrical system. Then I'd like to mention that the Norwegian experience was that when they connected their electronic energy system with the first Swedish electronic energy system and then the dance power system could equal short-term fluctuations in demand, simply by increasing the installed force without increasing communication and producing more than the actual activation could, compared with the media designed for, but only for a short time, without the power that is actually impossible. It is a physical law that prevents it by any other technology but simply stores water where it is not allowing it to flow through the activation, so that the Norwegian electricity production system took the task of equalizing short-term problems in the production of heats, drives, the Danish electricity system, which was driven primarily by coal, energy, and demand in Denmark. That's how it was at around the end of the day. At the turn of the century. Since then, the production of electricity by wind power has become a complete revolution in Europe. Wind comes first to the electrical energy system at least as it is in Europe. It is uncertain whether the Icelanders would follow that example, but even without a priority, the wind's power forces are faced with a problem that the wind does not necessarily blow when electricity is powered. The demand is greatest, and then someone needs to be able to balance the fluctuations and the only ones that really can do it without speech are hydro-engineering, so this adjustment is opening up the possibility to increase the production of wind energy in Iceland in a practical way. It is that Iceland could build more wind gas than any inhabited state because of the low share we have and the scope of the exchange simply because of the high annual demand in Iceland's eco-efficiency compared to the created power, so large amounts of wind energy can be set up in Iceland without significant costs, simply by increasing the level of power of activation without increasing communication. It is an opportunity unique among the nations of the world, but the benefits are not yet listed because I happen to be another of two instructors, a young man who is studying the connections of steam sources, systems, saunas, and hydropower workers. There are opportunities that have not been fully new or researched and that need to be developed in Iceland and back again in order to set the chest of any member of the council here generally upside down to my interest in examining that possibility by opening up more efficiency at electricity prices in Iceland, which is, unfortunately, a very high dose in the way that the basis for efficient markets have been very limited. In short, let me describe what this is all about. I now thought of those who looked up when I was talking about the wind. Men were required to have problems, the wind, the wind, the wind, only blow when the weather permits, and the circumstances are not necessarily at the same time as the demand for energy. Somebody's got to figure it out. Whoever does the best is the hydropower. But if you crack out or translate out as it would be, in English, in time and examine the long - term hydropower, it's like wind power and steam energy. It's that there's mood swings. Everyone knows the cutback, land induction of energy for growth in this winter that was created through difficult water supply for land induction, steam generation, but they can also provide energy by not blocking the energy sector and they can keep it as long as they want, thereby extending short-term water fluctuations. No, for long term fluctuations in water energy would be forgiven by keeping energy between rivers instead of storing it between hours, as in the case of the power of the wind against the hydropower, I do not know. I've lost the room in all of these connections, but the idea is that you've enhanced the forces, the hydropowers, and the steam workers in order to actually have less power to activate and then we'll come back to the subject that was earlier here, which was a frame of plan and the painful decisions needed to increase energy production if we're going to take the steps of the energy exchange we want. This approach reduces the pace so that the positive results of this decision - making process that most of the part is involved, and I have to admit that I feel that I feel that it's more forward and even more forward and reasonable than most of the things I have considered. I can really lighten us by making it easier for both water - power activation and steam - power activation to increase a power level without actually increasing the extent of the environment, the noise that comes with it. It is an additive force installed by hydropower workers without increasing the provision and production capacity of steam power workers without needing to expand the area. This may sound strange, since it is actually being suggested, it is having more production capacity than can be expected for longer periods of time. However, by destroying the fluctuations of the energy initiatives that are in their nature swinging and reducing the need for the entire energy supply system to be larger than is needed for average years to be able to cope with and produce enough electricity in a bad water year so that a short supply of total water and steam efficiency is not enough to be achieved by the use of new technologies or water-flow activation more effectively by this decision-making but also to open up more power production by wind power and to reduce the need for total capacity of water and steam efficiency by looking forward to achieving the goal of energy production. With the slightest possibility of an eco-efficiency to speak. Takes it. paritaprevir And Trausti Friðbertsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u98	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Már Kristófersson's son die for his speech, and when I'm here, I'm actually discussing very similar things, and this will also be a bit of a background, so that when we were working in the energy policy, they were a group for almost two years, and in that work, my new points were focused on, which was naturally just building up the electrical energy system, transport, systems of electricity, the high-powered system, the built-in line of the circle. That would be a big focus, then would be the interaction of the wind energy we've been having too little talk about in Iceland, and then maybe there was a part of the antics, just in general, about Iceland's competitiveness in electronics, which is always a big foundation for Iceland's living values, and this case is a bit involved in that conversation. Well, strong inputs the extra power of the continuum transfunctioner to the Major of these three inducers and exactly like that. A senator who just finished his case came up is that there is an expansion of the hatches and extra power of the continuum transfunctioner so that there will be more flexibility in the system. And like a cot. A senator came to see that it flows less into the hands of the wintertime, and this will match the swing of some descriptions of the earth's cold melts during its time, while the winds blow more in winter, and the flames and the better weather usually during the summer season. It's the same as when you were asking an Icelandic expert about this: Well, what's the use of the Icelandic electrical power system today? That's how the general answer was, maybe, most of them were shooting this 75% of our system. That is why there is a land of wind power, and that is why it should be the wind power in the last few years. It is so important into this precisely to improve the efficiency of the electrical system. There are enormous interests, and it will quickly hit billions of billions of dollars as we look forward to a future that will help us to make better use of our system. That's why it was also in this context. Is so important that we have a powerful electrical transport system. It's to channel energy all over the country. Hv. A senator entered a larger context, part, Norway, Sweden, and Denmark. The Norwegians brought in the sea cable, but what we are doing in itself is similar by a powerful transport system to link all these items when the settlement was laid almost 50 years ago. Since then, some 20 25% of the capacity for activation in Iceland has been delivered, and this ratio has now reached a ratio of 31.74% at present and we have experienced it now, especially in winter and Gunnlaugsson, is also 2014 or 15 and since perhaps the last two winters have been seeing evidence of this. If we had the strength, we'd know that the transport system, we could reduce and use our whole system better. Then, in this context, we will find it most enjoyable to receive that speech. paritaprevir The death of Maid, the Már of Kristófersson earlier, to discuss these matters directly thereafter. That's why I think this case is a very good thing, to be honest with what we're dealing with here in Iceland today because we're talking about using what we have, this important precious green energy in a more reasonable way, more powerful way. We may not have to activate as much into water as we do, e.g. by increasing the wind power back and then powerful electrical transport systems, but in recent years, there has been a struggle against hydropower activation. In fact, it has been fought to build electrical systems. I know that in the north of Eyjafjörður, where I come from, and we know this weather. We know outside of Southnes that this was a certain damage to our system, how we haven't been able to transport our energy between areas. It has also been observed about the wind power that measurements of the ocean in this area, which is being referred to as Burdrum, which was presented today in our discussion of a frame plan, that there is good use in Iceland, the ocean. It's going to work, over 45% of the usefulness of wind energy that's excellent for globally. Are we talking about maybe 25 to 28%? The use or use of windmills on a global scale has often been spoken of as 28%. Then I think that in general, it's about windmills on land, not in the ocean, so I want to turn it down, and I think it's boring. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came by earlier. The work has been done on questionable grounds in a greater part of the environment of the Transport Committee. I mean, it's just... It's really... It's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's This kind of public speaking, it all has to be something like this, and it's got to be super-cool enough. I don't think there's anything questionable in the house. I think that wise people in general just see this, they're pretty full of stuff that has to do with this matter. What is unique since the Red Sea and the proposed Borfells mood and location are already present, as is the case with a highly high electricity system or electrical energy, lines that can carry considerably more energy than they do today. There is yet another change in the practicality of this project, so there is a number plus this. I've called here at the council in the last few years when I came in to the council that we're talking more about energy issues in general. We'll talk more about wind power and the benefits it has for our electrical systems, as if I've established the better use of the global system, will use our hydropower better. I thought it was interesting at the time. paritaprevir Death Már Kristófersson the son of before. There is also the combination of the earth's water supply, which is different, since I may be stressing here by force of water and wind. But the fact that we as a nation have these three important possibilities in green energy and the production of green energy, which is a geotherm, a power of water, and wind, is unique. You can hear it from visitors who are sitting on the Foreign Affairs Committee and her backup plan, and there's a lot of visitors in Iceland this loss. Most of them want to discuss green energy with us as president of the National Council of NATO. Is this a huge matter in there, a security issue in Europe and today, intertwined by every guest in the country today? We've come a long way around 85% of the energy we're using today. Iceland is green. The European Union has about 15%, so we are in an envious position with this. Yet, we feel that this is a major project for 2014, that we have no carbon share, and we have come across to produce so much green energy that we can become a carbon object after 18 years. It must be amazing to go from 15% to 100% in green energy in 20, 30 years. It has also come to the wind that the cost of falling has dropped tremendously. In the past ten years it has been very practical, and today it is more affordable than our cheapest water source to produce megawatts. She says a lot of things, and I miss her. I feel that the lack of this topic is considerable, part of it because we are always on a relatively negative level in the general discussion of these matters, but we may not be evaluating the benefits and benefits, e.g. wind power, in the way that we should be doing in this discussion. That's why I felt that it was a big step now that we're evaluating the greater part of the environment transport committee to suggest that the Burfells should be brought into the Neo class, and we can start doing such a first experiment. I agree that this is at the Committee on Environment and Transport. I also think it's good in itself that the possession is in the state, and this is for itself a national inactivation that can develop this context of the parts we're talking about. It has also been observed in a energy policy committee but in its own time. We have power installed in today's water supply, probably 2001, 100, 2200 mW geotherms, I was not going to be six, 700, such an arraign and wind power of the early scientific ideas when we were discussing this into the energy policy committee but at the time, there were 100, 150 to play back. When we'd been through this for the next two years, we'd be talking about 5,500,1000 mW in a wind power to improve the efficiency of our system so that then we have natural, natural, or puffy, and then we'll always have some of the fuel and other things to block the system, and there's a number of possibilities to do this. So I'll stress it more in this case when we're discussing instead of talking and taking all his language out of Kjal Road, caught. Then you were just asking the context of the element, which is the electrical energy system, electrical energy, wind power, water power, and melting. I also found the Committee's work interesting in this case. If we were designing our hydropower workers today in the Major of the East, we'd be doing something other than today. After the rise of melts, the earth's population accumulates to the future of 95 more and more water that we are not making full use of. This is actually part of something that knows to respond to this expansion of these three activations in the Major of this bill. But I think if we were designing, if, for example, we were to design. Five years later, a river station has been designed, perhaps to look a little different from what it does today because north of the northern regions of Lake glacier is a great quantity of water that will not be used in the same way as we could. But there might have been a little more power in the system, which could have been more active and could have been used in return. That's why it's natural to feel that instead of having the wind power all over and all over in the horizon, as we may be experiencing when driving through Denmark and Germany and in many parts of Europe, we would be more likely to have fewer than larger activations in the wind. Of course, it is as shown in a discussion here that, of course, it is a good option to be close to the building blocks, powerful transmission lines, but perhaps some other viewpoints may be introduced into this debate, competitiveness of country and nation. It's just a big part of it, and that's why we should be talking much more about it. This interaction between parts, green energy, its value is growing so much and it's natural as I came into Europe, there's hardly any bigger issues, and if we connect security issues in Europe, energy, climate, and so on, this is going to be the big deal for the next ten, 20, 30 years. It's how we're going to play our share in this and come with us, use the extras, make it all because our potential is vast and more than most of the other countries when they say that there's a lot of energy here and that's right. We are the longest-larged energy produced by every human being in the country in the country or, as it is called in English, just per Capital, that we produce twice as much as the second largest of the nations, No. In the United States alone, contributions are 30% and 30%, respectively. It's also about that it's a big part of Iceland's standard of living, it's using a geologicist to produce electricity, and this is what's creating a foundation. I think I think my opinion is that I think that we have, for example, that. Not properly after the collapse of funds, the seriousness of it was assessed that when, like the Meriadian dam and the River Valley station but entered the center east, how this has been affected, so as a foundation in our community, and then only the rest of the network of electricity production, which is after growing and strengthening nations. But we must always do this in a sustainable way in which we see fit the environment, the social and economic aspects. There will always be a requirement, and I think we are all, there are no environments, I mean, in the United States Congress. We're all fighting for the environment. Then perhaps we are in a discussion today, on the other hand, of the environment and the climate. It is not always the same discussion, perhaps in the groups that talk first of all about climate and then environmentally. It is not always the same as it is in the underlying discussion, so I think to be honest with the better things that have been made up here in the winter, and just so simple that everything that recommends this matter so that most is in this matter, to increase the flexibility of the system we are building up by force, by capacity, by name, by name, by flexibility in the system, by playing a game against the labor force and by powerful transportation systems. This is the basis for the discovery and development of prey. There's more water in the Eldam. First of all, it may be some hours in the day we are trying to fill in better, but the big thing in the big context is that the use of the nation's entire electrical system is best, and it's getting out of this 75% and setting goals anyway. That's what we're supposed to be discussing in this context, so I just thank you for having a good discussion, and I've had the opportunity to deal with these matters that are excellent. I've finished my case. President. The Supreme Court. Hv. paritaprevir Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u99	V.E.G. President. I'm just up here to do, on my own, in very short notice, the bill from the Environment and Transport Committee. I'm on it. I agree with what has been said here about the benefits it can do in the future for electricity production in this country, but I made it a precaution not to agree with the opinion of the greater part of the data that support the expansion of Landing plan in Þjóturin's implementation as a means of profit itself. I just wanted it to come out more. It has been interesting for the president to listen to the discussion on this fine subject and, especially, to have a small lecture from time to time. paritaprevir Death of KristóferssonMár son, who spoke here with great knowledge about electricity production and the environment in which we work. I can agree with the opinion of members of the Parliament, both Daði Már Kristófersson and Trausti of Friðbertsson Tratir. Of course, we have these changes here, enabling us to equal the fluctuations of the system in the electrical system. Then it is very important that you can do it. It is also important that the future use of wind and water energy to balance fluctuations is also possible, and I think most people in this room agree on this, and it is very important that at the same time to increase the installed power in the tanks, and hopefully this will lead to less activation because we need to disrupt less land on land here. And as we know, we've actually activated all the best hydropowers in the world and we know that more hydropower activations, particularly grossly irreversible noises on nature, irreversible consequences, and we don't want to see it, and I think most people would agree with it. Of course, failure to remain stable is the nature of the natural resource. It swings along a nice or bad river of water from storms and winds literally, and that is why it had a closed electrical system, such as we have here in Iceland, that when a water stream is bad, as sometimes happens, and happens regularly, we feel it and can feel it, and that is why it is very important to take action to counteract natural fluctuations in the system. But I'm also going to mention it here on this occasion that, as mentioned at this discussion, we're not using the benefits that would come from opening the system. I know that here I am opening up a relatively delicate discussion for many, but it was mentioned how Norway has opened its system with sea cables, e.g. to other countries. I think that, before we go very far, our task here will be to consider that matter to the end and to consider that matter, because it is also about selling the most valuable goods in the world, the one of the most valuable products in a world that is renewable energy, and to get for it the highest possible price. There's a little bit of respect in that, too. Therefore, it is simply a matter of thinking in an even larger context for the long future. I know it'll be done if it doesn't happen here tonight. But I wanted to use this opportunity to mention that the system is not being closed by natural laws. That's a decision. However, there are a lot of things in the system that we have given to nature. However, we have seen it through stupid technology and by allowing companies to expand their power, we will also use this energy better. I agree with what. Friðbertsson It's very important to use every drop in the system and get it through, and we need to find all the ways to do it. No more calls have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u100	Named why. 1st. That's the north side. "Ingibjörg the Israelites. A respectable president. I recommend a greater proportion of the European Commission's Environment and Transport Committee for Committees, with a change in rural legislation or municipal elections. The bill suggests simplifying localisation elections on individual topics, unity, and when choosing a member of the community. At the same time, it is suggested that local electronic elections be maintained. The committee discussed the matter and received a meeting of guests. The following is the discussion by the Committee on the topic. More of the environment and transport committees are requested to make a special decision. In view of the greater part, the bill is a step toward increasing the democratic involvement of the population of rural society, which is considered to be important. However, in discussing the matter, comments were made regarding funding on a duty proposed to have the Iceland National Publications Index prepared an elected bill, as shown by the rest of the 3.mg. a-arms, 5. 133. g. For this reason, the more part of Iceland's National Registry is permitted to take charge of farms because of the production of electronic elections for population elections, cr. 3 mg B-huts, 5. 134. g.. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees contribute to changing the bill. First of all, there is a change in election rights. In the current first sentence, Article 3 mg. Thirty-eight. Civil Government, No. 138/2011, states that the election's election rights, as a member of the rural community operates in the same way as having the right to vote on the election. So that's Section 3. a-arms 5. 133. gr. The bill guarantees that the vote for votes of a rural society has the current election law of the local community, No. However, 112 of 2021 suggests that the right to vote will change on the basis of the election for rural or international governments, the elected president of Iceland, or national law. In view of the above and the link between local elections to the local government. So it seems that the greater part is right to make adjustments, with the aim of requiring that rural elections normally take into account local government rights. Second, a change in terms of terms is proposed. The case gave a statement from the National Committee on the first case of 4th. Thirty-eight. 5 mg. 108. g. A rural government law would still be based on the fact that Iceland's National Registry hands out to local agencies for treasuries. current election law, no. 112 from 2021, however, this is not expected but it is expected that the Agency will submit its final files. Because of this. A greater estimate is that there is a reason to suggest a change to conform to local government laws, No. 138/2011 and election law, No. 112/2021. Third, a change in terms of the landing of the national government is proposed. Despite the fact that the bill is intended to simplify local elections. The majority consider it very important to have clear rules for terms of population elections in order to have a solid trust in the construction of the land. To make sure that it is. Therefore, the greater part estimate is that the terms of the Regulation are important in the administration of the national government. 4 mg. a-arms 5. 133. gr. The bill and suggest a change to the subject. Finally, several technological changes are proposed and are not intended to have any material effect. Based on the rest of the indicators, a detailed discussion on changes in the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee. According to the above, a greater proportion of the environment and transport committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes made. Under the opinion of more than one part of the Environment and Transport Committee, as well as the above, why Councilmen, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Bjarni Jónsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdænsdótttir, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Orri Páll Jóhannsson. It's a promotion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u101	Mr. President. I'd like to make a brief explanation for the change in proposal that has come into play with this bill from what? paritaprevir Pirata, Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson. The proposal is based on a bill that has been suggested by Pirata's members to me by six times, which is about to explain and enhance the capacity of a member of the rural community to promote civil meetings on the other hand and to keep local elections on special matters. The change turns to 108. g. In the countryside, two paragraphs, the first two paragraphs, and first, it's 1st. 108. g. The law states that if at least 10% of those entitled to vote in a local community wishes to have a civil meeting, the government should deal with it as soon as possible. Change course. The senator's requirements are to add the new case, as follows: A rural government is permitted to determine a lower proportion. In agreement with the government of the country society, it is, in fact, that a government that wants to make it easier for people to make civil meetings, wants to almost encourage the population to be more active in using this device, can do that. The second motion turns to 2 mg. The same articles of the law, which states that 20% of the country's voters can request a local vote on a particular subject. Then the country's partner is obliged to grant that request no later than a year after the wish. The minimum percentages per law are allowed, but it allows a higher proportion agreed on the government of the community, but never more than one-third of those having the right to vote and to adapt. A senator's concern is that instead of allowing a country government to provide a higher proportion to enforce a local vote on individual matters, there is simply another proportion to be included here. Some local governments might want to lower this threshold again, a local government that wants to encourage its citizens to be democracies so that even challenging governments might say: We just want to lower these 20% to ten or 15 or what it is because we want the citizens of the countryside to take some blanket if we don't stand or what it's not always negative. These are two basic forms of change that actually turn the game. In order to make it easier for rural governments to decide the threshold of using these tools, civil meetings, and local elections to make it easier to understand that rural communities are being surmounted to as little or no avail but to offer them up in their approved terms to their democratic community, closer to the state's threshold as it should be. Now I've made an explanation of this great change in plans. paritaprevir Björn Gunnarsson Leví and would like to mention only two things about the bill that the Environment and Transport Committee has discussed since the introduction of Ministers to local government elections. On the one hand, the thing that may be a bit familiar from the fact that we were doing a legal election here a year ago is that there is the same trend in this bill, such as in the Constitution that it may be unnecessaryly referred to a minister to implementing a Regulation without having been clearly developed in law texts, exactly what the procedure should look like. I may not be so worried about it here as in campaign law. This is not as much an authority as it is, but consider that this is about becoming foreign in affairs involving the implementation of elections. However, I would like to point out what was discussed by the Committee on the electronic sufficiency: Wait and don't show up here, do you? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I just want to draw attention to this because it's shocking that we're enforcing the electronics law, not making sure that the developer's national record is running its laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u102	6th. We're out of here. "Berry Haraldsdóttir. Mr. President. I recommend the General and Education Committee's Committee on bill changes to the law on living foreigners and young people's employment permits. The bill suggests changes in the publishing of living and working permits of young people from mutual agreements in Iceland with foreign countries on the trade of young people. The bill suggests that rather than this law applies to young people 18◯26 years of age when it applies to young people 18How old when they are 183/431 years old, as well as to those suggested that such licenses be extended for two years if a deal with a foreign power assumes that the committee will discuss the matter and be brought to its guests, but no comments were received. Within the Committee included We will discuss the possibility of expanding the opportunity to stay and work here in general. The objective of the existing bill, however, is a license for young people at the time of the year. Sixty-seven. law on foreigners and is aimed at ensuring Iceland's contract commitment to other countries for that group. However, the committee feels strongly that this point will be examined more closely, directing it to the Neo - appointed Ministerial Committee on the affairs of immigrants and refugees to take into account a special opinion of a simple application procedure for living and working permit. The Commission suggests technical changes that do not need explanations and suggests that the bill will be accepted. Under the heading of this magazine, as well as the text below. Councilmen, Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir Kristirdirdóttir Gónsdótnarsson, Þórarinsson Þólur the Ármannsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrigeirsdótir, Logi Einarsson, and Kári Gautason are Sigmar Guðmundsson. A member of the Committee. If you don't agree with this, you don't have to be quiet and you're talking about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u103	Named why. 6th. We're out of here. "Berry Haraldsdóttir. Mr. President. I recommend the General and Education Committee's Committee on bill support for changes in the Member States' legislation regarding recruitment and services with candidates for international protection. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by guests. There were two comments on the subject and further explained in a committee study, which is faced with the bill, suggested changes to the sources involved in the processing of personal information under the laws of foreigners. The Management Board has so far taken care of both the processing of applications for international protection and services to candidates but now services to applicants and their receptions to the Department's community and labour market. The contributions were not yet made for the purpose of this assignment, and it is referred to in the terms of the bill that the government responsible for the project will be authorized for the implementation of personal information. The work programme is now being carried out by the Labour Department and considered to state clearly in the Law that it is a Labour Department that receives the warrant for the processing of personal information, but such a tip also came from Perone Protection. Such a change, however, calls for more changes in laws that the committee feels are necessary to analyze better. Then it is important to establish a clear policy on the future welcome of this sensitive group. It is not a subject or goal of an existing bill that the committee still directs. The Commission therefore points to the newly appointed Ministerial Committee on the affairs of immigrants and refugees to take this into consideration and to ensure that, as soon as it is decided on which the institution or administration will be assigned, it will provide a bill where it will also be proposed to update the rules of the Law on the processing of personal information. The committee suggests that the bill will be passed on as well as under the opinion of the printed material listed above. The members of the assembly, Kristínardóttir Anna Kristnard, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir, Eyjólfur of Eybriin, Adjour the Ármannsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrigeir's daughter, Logi Einarsson, Kári Gautason, and then is snar. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson, a member of the Committee to Re-Elect, agrees with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u104	A respectable president. I recommend here on behalf of the employment board for the Committee on Elements for a bill to correct temporary reimbursement of filmmaking legislation in Iceland, No. 43/1999. The bill suggests changes in temporary reimbursement laws for filmmaking in Iceland, No. 43/1999. It is suggested that for a limited size of projects, the percentage of reimbursement costs is 35%, while for other projects that meet the requirements of the law, the proportion remains at 25% as it has been. The committee discussed the matter and came to a meeting of guests and received reviews. It's reported. It is mentioned in the committee's opinion. The committee feels that it is important that governments focus on promoting international competitive support systems for films and productions of films and TV programs. That there are both economic impacts and benefits for Icelandic society, including in indirect and secondary effects, the committee discussed various data and reports of the material, including A 2006 Economic Institute report on reimbursement of film making costs. However, the Commission feels that it is timely to make a new assessment of the impact and benefits of reimbursement on filmmaking and to suggest new arrangements for the initiative, the bill that the Minister should have a new assessment of reimbursement of the global film industry, and that the increase in the proportion of reimbursement for larger projects, as further explained by the Commission, is a clear and efficient servant of both national and movie producers, which was shown to attract greater privileges to the country. This has contributed to the development of professional knowledge within the movie sector. It was noted that the bill can influence the competitiveness of smaller film producers and the production of smaller projects that can be important in artistic and cultural cultures. The Commission suggests that the position of a smaller film producer and the impact of the bill on those in the proposed assessment of the changes made by the Committee will be discussed. The Committee also discussed assessments of the financial impact of the bill and the funding of the system. The committee received information from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs that the bill was unsaturable, and financial resources were not available to meet the expense issues the bill would bring. In the treatment of the case, it also stated that the current reimbursement system and that the share of reimbursement costs of 25% of the production costs since the start of 2020 is expected to be much lower than the amount actually due to reimbursement for film making. For the past few years, budgets will be added every year to be needed to meet potential challenges. The Commission feels that there is a need for further notice in the funding of the system in accordance with the laws on public finances. The Commission considers the importance of all prime products being carried out in accordance with the laws and regulations set out by the government for the suit and release of a management project and considers it necessary for financial reimbursement to be expected in such cases when it is possible to plan to reimburse instead of making up the difference between the budget and the actual financial payment. In this regard the Committee points out that if the bill becomes that the law may not come to a reimbursement for this agreement given earlier than next year because of the time planned for production of materials. So the committee directs a minister to consider the above in planning the budget for the next year. The committee proposes a change to the bill. On one hand, the use of terms and expressions and variations in individual branches are subject to adjustments. Then the commission suggests a new provision for temporary use. First, a change is proposed in terms of one of the conditions required to meet in order to have the right to a 35% remuneration rate. That's the minimum cost of production. It is suggested that the minimum cost of production in this country as a result of production of films or TVs is 350 million instead of 200 million. K. as suggested in the bill. This adjustment is critical to the conditions that must be met. Still, the goal of the change is unchanged. It is reaching larger and longer periods of projects that are mainly done on the land. Second, a change in the terms of the number of days required to have the right to pay the cost of 35%. The bill expects a date to be taken in Iceland to be at least 30 and to include post-recycling projects in Iceland in that number. For the committee, it was noted that conditions needed to be better resolved. This is done in a committee study and through a translation change in the proposal made by the Committee. It's the other way around. It should be noted that the national work centre will be at least 30, whether it is taking days or working days for the defined post-explanatory work programme. The term "employment date" refers to the task being done at least eight hours not requiring a continuous cycle of days but being able to distribute over a particular period of time. However, at all times there should be a minimum of 10 days in the country. Third, a change in the requirements for the number of employees to be entitled to 35% of the remuneration costs is proposed. Under the conditions of the bill. Some 50 employees are originally referring to the work of employees as from pay or contractors that are divorced in this country, as it is considered by the law on pay and subsidies only if they are taxed in the country. Second, work is doing what lies behind the 50 employees'work to a minimum of a whole day of work, according to their former definition. This means that more than 50 can be counted as a work of 50 full - time workers. That's it. That the wording of the law reflects the above, the committee suggests a change in the bill. Finally, a new provision suggests that a minister should ask an independent party to make an assessment of reimbursement for filmmaking in Iceland. The report will evaluate the effects of temporary reimbursement for film making in Iceland. It is economic and social benefits. The review shall then discuss how to achieve an increase in the proportion of reimbursement for larger projects. The date must be completed before the end of 2024, and the results published publicly refer to a secondary review of the changes made in a committee study. In the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made. Under this committee of publications, as well as the above, ostensibly. Councilmen, Ólafsson Rafn, Ósk Sverrisdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Tothol Björn Einarsson, and Tómas A. Tómasson, excuse me, Bergdensdundsdótir, Guðmundsdóttir was absent at the hearing of the case, signed by a source in 2 mgr. Twenty-nine. Congress. The Helga Vala Helgadóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees. That's what all the pro board is doing on this case and on this committee's opinion of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the Honorable Employment Committee for taking this case and making certain adjustments. I said that when the case came in here, when I gave it my whole mind the conditions set for the reimbursement of these elevated bill reimbursement were a third watch. It was talking about minimum production costs, how long the projects would be here, and the number of employees needed to work on projects, and I mentioned them in my speech that these criteria were not sacred to my opinion, that there was something that I might be able to do well. The committee has done, and I am well aware of the changes made by the committee and are available in this committee article, which was recommended before my speech, and I think that in itself it would be good to raise the sum from 200 million to 350 million that underscores the perhaps all of the major projects. And as I have said before, when I have declared my support for the goals that are being tried to achieve this rule, it is, of course, that the capital of this sector, the international sector, is often looking into the direction where reimbursement is in a way that it is practical to put large projects in place. So it's about America's competitiveness. And while I generally believe that professional activities are most important in their own lives and that they need to be careful of their specific reasons, there are many kinds of indecisions and such things. Then I am absolutely convinced that this industry has a special position in that way to make a secondary impression on this kind of attraction. They're so big that it's one of those things that could be such a strong support to the sector that would then be very growing and enormous. And I also drew attention to this as part of creative articles and, of course, intended to mention that the benefits are then made by some country culture that I feel are of great importance to me. Because it has, of course, been observed in surveys that much of the tourists here have the idea of coming here to a project like this that has been seen on TV or on movies. I think the benefits of this are quite great, and, as I say, I agree with these changes that come through the work of the Committee. I think it's fine that the committee's done quite well, and she's on the whole thing. I've got to keep it up. It's such a trade that when they arrive in the country, there are many privates and smaller companies who are involved in such projects. They are then often taking on projects for the Icelandic media so that there would be a consistent effect between the Icelandic editors of the Icelandic media and the companies directly involved in the services of the companies involved in larger projects. So I, although it may be difficult to appreciate it in some bonemates and pennies, I think it's such a consistent effect between which this change that we're talking about right now will only strengthen the Icelandic media landscape. I think it's a really big plus in this whole thing. But then, of course, I think it should have been done a little earlier and a little discussed during the last term. But somehow it didn't make sense to go to that job, because there have been other countries around us who have been raising the payment rate which has made it easier for me to look there than here to the country, and we have examples of doing this work or just going to other countries instead of coming here, so I'm nothing but a very positive part of going to this change and saying I don't feel that I've been able to cover the exact assessment of these changes. In terms of what is happening in the committee's opinion, I made it clear here when the matter came into mind that none of it was sacred to me. I think this ground-to-wall idea remains the same as I can see as it is that the U.S.R. should be united to accept this matter. I'm at least. It's a great thing to do, not just Icelandic filmmaking, but community. The next question will be answered. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u106	Mr. President. I would like to thank the head of a committee not only for good advance but also for a good job as well as for other professionals on a professional committee but also for a professional committee. This was a bill that came in rather late but, fortunately, has been worked fast and easily. It could be said that it was very good at what was highest. Ministers and Ministry were very busy finding information and answering questions that came up with the Committee, but movies are important, not just getting movies up to the country, is not just a matter of professional importance. Of course, it's also for cultural life, and we may often forget how great an advertisement it is for Iceland that it is using the beautiful nature we have in movies and television programs that are hundreds of millions of people in six months, and we must not forget that here before Kuwait began to make the money of tourism in Iceland. They were more than we could get from our fish and all the aluminium industry and industry we have. And it is also very interesting to hear from the Travel Office that about 40% of those who come to this country mention seeing Iceland, film or television programs, is one of the reasons why the idea of arriving in Iceland, currency pay 2019, or tourism was about 550 billion dollars. We can say: Yes, maybe we can't say that 40% is because people see movies but just as well, even they're only 10% or 5%, we're talking about large amounts of money in currency income, and it's especially important to get these big jobs because they're making opportunities where people are seeing people, not just for a few minutes in one movie, but maybe again and again in each of the elements of another Iceland, so we don't talk about what this will create a lot of business and take care of money and other services. But I just wanted to finish by thanking the committee again for her cooperation, and that's my religion. Like what? A senator who used the above Guðmundsson: Will not only have a good effect on the big projects, foreign projects, but will also have a good effect on Icelandic movies and TV programs that we have seen in recent years have become more than a little competitive at the international market. No more have been silent and are discussed with others than is the end of votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u107	Mr. President. I recommend the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for the Commission's opinion of No. 5/6 9 for supporting innovation companies. The extension of temporary regulations with the bill is proposed to change the provisional regulations in the legislation to support innovation companies, No. 52/192 2019 of the fact that tax extracts of innovations due to their activities in 2000 are also being used in 22021. In 2022, both the cut-off ratio and the maximum cost of calculation of the recovery are reduced. The committee discussed the matter and came to a meeting of guests and received reviews. It is reported in a committee study, which follows the Commission's discussion on the subject, especially the majority of the reviewers would like to suggest that the provisional laws remain unchanged or that the cutoff rate and maximum cost should be increased above what is expected. In the current provisional principle for the Committee, it was found that intelligent and innovation are becoming a strengthening aid in Iceland's economy. Today, some 12,000 people are engaged in this industry or about 6% of the workers in the country, ideals, and innovations. Industrial growth is a growing support based largely on investment in research and development, and it is in accordance with the existing government's administration to promote research and development projects in order to increase the number of jobs and to put intelligence above the head of the Icelandic economy. Prescientity is very important when investments in the international business environment and sharing changes strengthen the fact that only seven on a small scale can make a difference when it comes to attracting foreign people to Icelandic investments. The Committee discussed the importance of the article, the article, the analysis of the situation of innovation, the modern industry of the OECD. The majority of the material expects that subsequent analyses will be developed according to a whole policy on the subject to the future. In view of the greater part, it is important to develop a new creation policy, as is done in another socially important industry so that Iceland's goals and policy on research and development are clear and realistic. It was then observed that many had thought that the process would be extended unchanged. However, it was suggested that in the government Treaty, the maintenance of reimbursement for research and development and wills to green, investments and to promote the bases of research, innovation and creative articles, it is an important support to attract investments in a business environment proving to many companies, difficult research, and development often take a long time, but is largely reversible to the community in the form of taxes. It was also found that it was important to make a total effort to achieve the results of the project. The majority are counting to insist on the need for such an assessment. It allows further control of the government's resources to promote research and development in Iceland. Among the things that the assessment needs to focus on, it is to better define the requirements for reimbursement and to improve the ability of Ranni to review applications to ensure that reimburse what he should do in research and development. It must be ensured that the fixed cost of enterprises will not be marked by innovation and development. The real owner of the project must also be established. The majority suggest changes in the bill to the cut-off ratio at 1st par. Remain unchanged from today's provisional regulations, but the maximum cost will be the same as in the bill or 1,000 billion. K. considers the majority of such changes to match the views of the committee, but they also meet an increased demand for responsible government in the face of economic uncertainty, such as inflation and growth. The target of tax deduction from research and development projects is to promote research and development and improve the competitive conditions of innovation companies. The elements of the provisional regulations of the law have made a big difference for innovation companies to the economic uncertainty that has followed the pandemic crowns of the virus. The majority of them believe that it is important to continue the competitiveness of Icelandic innovation companies as the economic impacts of the epidemic on land and globally. Thus, in view of proposals, the deduction rate of innovation companies remains to be 35 percent from their available income tax in 2021 and 2022 due to the implementation of costs and research and development projects. Then the more part will suggest a change of 2. The technical bill that doesn't need an explanation. In other respects, we should refer to a detailed review of aluminium-changing changes, the opinion of more part of the Economic and Business Committee. In the above, a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee is responsible for the approval of the bill by the changes made. There have been reports. Under the opinion of more part of the Economic and Business Committee literature, as well as the above, why. The people of the assembly, Hafsteinsdóttir Mersteinsdur, Diljé, Mist Einarsdóttir, Einarsson, Hafdís Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, and Steinunn, the Árnadóttir of Turrah.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for history. I'd like to ask you a few questions about what. A senator and a president will notice that there's some flutter on the clock here. First, I wanted to ask about in the government's promise that a provisional law with a percentage payment rate will be made permanent, but now I read this bill, and of course it has been followed through the committee. Senator. I can't see that it's being done and that these orders are being made permanently. It's only being extended by the next year and the years after, which certainly is not a permanent change, so I wondered why it was decided not to do it permanently, as the government's political treaty indicates. Then I would like to ask about another matter that turns on lowering the so - called roof on reimbursement. I was just wondering what evidence is behind the decision to look away from the arrangement that has already been a complete review of the category of languages and whether or not. A senator does not believe that companies who have been making use of this document have had legitimate expectations, in view of the terms in a government contract, that the roof is going to survive as it is. So my questions are three ways of being dignified. First, why was the decision not to make judicial decisions permanent, as the government covenant foretells? Second, what are the reasons for lowering the roof and each other? A senator doesn't think it's right that the companies who have been making good use of this resource to the roof have not had legitimate expectations that the roof will remain fit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. With regard to the first question on their permanent status, as reflected in my history, we feel that it is important that the situation is analysed and we are waiting for the results of this innovation's status here in the country that OECD is working on and then we believe that it will be working on a universal policy for the article in the future. So that is my answer to my first question. Regarding the second question: As we are reducing the peak roof, as it occurred in or as the provisional principle assumes, this dissociative action, which is 1,100 million, and the bill assumes that it is dropped to 1,000 million, and I think that we must say, as it is, that this is the kind of effort to reduce these costs, and where, in addition, it was repeated in the discussion for the committee, it would be the most likely to take advantage of the largest of all the available resources that may be the most effective and may have the greatest opportunity to take over, the job is established and able to work within the necessary range for which it will remain for its reply to its later time. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u110	That's Ævarsdóttir. A respectable president. I have sometimes heard that being a small or medium-sized innovation company in Iceland is a good thing, but as they grow up and grow big, and this also happened to the committee, the environment here is simply not competitive with other countries, and one of the things that makes the environment in Iceland is not competitive. Is this unpredictable instability in government policy, and that's why I asked. A senator whether he didn't think that this company had legitimate expectations that the roof would remain unchanged, away from whether or not. A senator and a greater part feel that losing those refunds is simply tolerated. Then, as a boy, it came into play. A senator says about the work on a general reexamination that should be done, I would like to ask, and I hope that this is not what is stated in the Constitution. In the government covenant, I don't start with a full reexamination, and then we figure out if we're going to make this permanent, but it says that the pay rate will be made permanent and that we'll have a full conference. I don't read it any other way, so we're supposed to make the payoffs permanent. So I want to go to a full-time conference, because I'd also like to think about it: look, okay, it's coming out of this overall dating that you have to follow the comments and concerns that the tax has been making about having a clearer framework of what constitutes research and evolution and what societies can be taking advantage of the real owners of the projects. So I ask. A senator: Had it not been right to go first to try to get those savings into practice. A senator goes on rather than cause this instability in these companies, which they just point out to be very damaging to their environment, and competitiveness answers to the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I, as mentioned in both my history and the answers of last year, think it's very difficult to have legitimate expectations for some of the things that were considered to be involved, these measures we have to deal with and support people, homes, businesses, jobs in this pandemic that's been here for two years or more. But as for the future and the future, I can say the truth about it. A senator as to the future need for us to have this destiny, as it was very clear to those who came before the committee, that such awareness was necessary, and as shown in my previous answer to my previous answer to the previous counter, we are now waiting for this review from OECD. The work is now being done just in order to develop a comprehensive policy toward the future, so that we can work at it just as fast as possible. A senator mentioned in his opponent that the necessary for my complete consideration is essential for these important professions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u112	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a committee study from the 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to legalize a change in the law to support innovation companies, no. 152/2009, on the extension of preliminary regulations. Good luck opens up a temporary increase in the reimbursement rate due to the cost of research. Evolution will be permanent. This is clearly stated in the Government Treaty, which discusses support for innovation companies. That is why it surprised Iceland's innovation and society when financial and economic ministers proposed a bill that the provisional principle would be extended only one year, and the remuneration rate in small and medium-sized companies would be reduced; however, a large number of companies had already made investments and development plans in line with the percentages of current legislation that were promised to remain unchanged in a government contract. It is happy that more part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests that there will be a resolution from this sudden change in payoff rate. Here, the Honorable Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee and other members of the Management Board are to be commended for standing up in their feet, but the first smaller part of the business is required for the government and the government to demonstrate policy development and avoid a roundabout in support of a new creation company and only the commercial life at all. The ambiguousness of the international sector and the brilliant work done by the swinging and competitive laws of the laws and governments is enough to offset the uncertainty and challenges it brings by creating predictable and competitive laws and the tax environment that will not be done by swinging the ratios and levels of reference to which it is used according to the way wind blows. The first smaller section considers it important to explain and sharpen the tax recovery rules due to innovation to the abuse of the resource. The tax has noted that in many cases general cost is misdemandly presented as research and the cost of evolution, and it calls for legalization of any form of criminal law to protect against misuse and to counteract unjust reimburse. I think it's entirely monotonous that we look at such laws, only to look at it in the fall, as soon as the current payback rate is established and I second up that I feel that it is important to me that this will happen in the fall of the next legion. I think there's gonna be a lot of support here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u113	Madam President. In the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, signed November 28, 2021, you will find the first emphasis in the category, industry, and innovation that sounds as a reimbursement for research and development, and will be extended and reviewed. A temporary increase in the remuneration rate due to research costs and development will be made permanent. By bill this, however, the government has proposed a permanent and temporary extension to 2020 and a reduction in the development from 35% to 30% for SMEs. With the bill it can be said that the government will break its old promise to the innovation sector, thus attacking a number of innovation companies who would have already made plans on the basis of the promises since November. The employment environment of innovation companies may be very unpredictable and depends on many uncertainty factors that the company needs to take into account in its planning. It is hard to believe that one of the largest uncertainty factors in the affairs of these enterprises is lost in the government. The stability of randomized changes in legislation on the functions of innovation companies may be significantly harmful to the awareness and dependability of planning. Companies that are affected by the reduction in reimbursement would likely be off the staff, even contracting sails, and canceling projects that would already be started if the bill were to be performed unchanged. So it is happy that the greater part agreed to make a change of motion. paritaprevir The Giselle of Rafn Gísli of Ólafsson, senator of Pirata, at one time and bring the ratio back to 35%, as the government actually promised. According to this, it was incorruption of a minister of finance to try to put his words at the time of the bill's donation. Logistic support for the reduction of the reimbursement rate is limited in the report with the bill. It simply says that it does not achieve as far as it was before, in order to allow the cost to be in line with the financial programme for 203/2027 and to be at the expense of the potential increase in innovation applications to Ranni. Thus, a minister had actually decided to put his words behind his financial plans without consulting the companies who had expected legitimate expectations of anything else. In view of the greater part of the committee, the overall policy agenda in the future is discussed in the article, including Based on the analysis now performed by OECD in this country, the overall success of the research and development programme is aimed at taking into account the overall results of the study and development programme. A smaller section will address the importance of making a full effort in the article, but it would be right to maintain the unchanged proportion to which the majority have agreed, but also to maintain the entire roof until this revision has taken place and the new reimbursement procedures have been passed. In this review it is also important to consider a significant comment made by the tax on the possible misuse of the system where companies have charged with projects that cannot be called research and evolution possibly due to ignorance or deliberate planning. The tax has also pointed to other windows that have to be shut down in order to get the right way. It is therefore our assessment in part 2 that it would have been better to make up for the limitations shown by the executives to be on the law to achieve the economic issues that the minister referred to as behind this bill. This could be saved without diluting over the environment of larger innovation companies. As a result of reviewing a rule of action, it is important to control the misuse of the system and thus achieve economic management and prevent excessive reimbursement rather than introduce downstances to companies who had legitimate expectations of not being saved. The bill suggests that the maximum cost of deduction from the prescribed income tax is shifting from 1.1 billion to 1 billion, but the need for the reduction is not supported by any other than by the above reference to a financial program by 2003◯2027. In view of uncertainty about economic factors, such as inflation or growth, a greater proportion of the committee suggest that the maximum payoff rate will be 1 billion as suggested in the bill. However, it is important that the agreements of the provisional regulations of the law have made a big difference for innovation companies and it is important that the competitiveness of Icelandic innovations remain as the economic impacts of the epidemic on land and on the world. Therefore, most of the Committee will acknowledge the importance of the funding for the competitiveness of Icelandic innovation companies and their economic importance while choosing to decrease their peak with the indicators of general uncertainty. Other smaller items have not produced convincing evidence to support the need to reduce the limit of payment and thus suggest that a maximum pay period of 1.1 billion as in current legislation. A smaller section thus suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: the amount of money that goes from 1 billion to 1.1 billion and this bill represents this committee party. I'm sorry, it's getting up, it's standing who's standing here standing and what's standing. paritaprevir Loveth Ásthildur Þórsdóttir. I just want to make a special comment on the decision not to make the remuneration rate permanent, as it is promised in the constitution because it does not work out in the Constitution that it should be set and fixed in the law and that it should have an overall review of this class and then say, "Hey, no, we have to go to this overall review first, and then we're going to see if it should be permanent. Here are things turned upside down. It is very direct and clear that it was there to make a payoff permanent. It is this round-way, respectable president, whom I am referring to, that is not good for the management ground of an enterprise that had legitimate expectations that this pay rate would be established by law without time restrictions, regardless of what would later come out of some overall re-examination. But now the fact remains that again and again the provisional principle is being extended with complete uncertainty as to whether a minister is coming back next year, thinking that he can save a few cents and pennies by tearing up the operating ground from innovations. This is not a good message into this delicate and important sector here in Iceland. A respectable president. This is not a message that increases confidence in the fact that there is something in this government covenant, when it took only a few months to betray a clear promise, and that it is not, now I have to say that there are not many clear promises in this constitution, but this is about a clearer one and that it is quite obvious. But 15 minutes later, there is something completely different. Of course, it is not a reassuring, dignified president of this government covenant in the mind of the government. But I'd like to repeat it or say it again. paritaprevir Jóhann, Jóhann Páll Páll Jóhannsson, brought here, that I think it's very good that the more part decided to hold on to the 30 to 35 remuneration rate and to stand at least 30 to 35. a temporary promise made in a government contract. That's fine. But better, if it's enough. It is not justified to promise that something is bound by law and then only temporarily, especially when such laws are addressed to companies that obviously need to make plans beyond one year at a time if the goal is to grow and be competitive in a global competitive environment. And I may want to make a decision that it is of particular importance for Iceland to have a competitive and stable environment for a innovation firm because, as members of the Committee pointed to them, many of them also have a measure of competitiveness. It is also the tiniest of secrets, human beings, the political instability of the United States, and other factors also mentioned that there were far too high pay costs in Iceland, and as a result, it would have to be an even better environment for innovation companies in Iceland than in the countries where we compare ourselves to offset these factors that reduce the competitiveness of our country. That is why, a respectable president, protests this roundabout and these: Well, this confusion in the promises made to companies. But saying so, I support this bill, and I support, or I will pass. But I make the following adjustments, and I'm more concerned with making more of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u114	A respectable president. Korter, innovation, spending or investment, and that's just a change of opinion, and many people say that when we put money in innovation, we're investing in the future, and that's how we can totally look at it. I had hoped, for example, that after reading the Constitution and realizing that these changes were being made in the Treaty to strengthen those who had been put through Kuwait 2020, it would be a lasting result, for according to a review of them, these changes made in 2020 were simply a major impact on the economy of these companies. For Kuwait, this strength was raised to 20% to 35, and there had been a final translation for many as a company and we got to our client who covered this with the value of these strengths and how much help they had provided as well as just what the consequences might have been. If it were to follow the original law, to reduce this from 35 to 30 for a small company that it spent most of its entrance to pay expenses. This could have the effect of perhaps losing three to four jobs, which, of course, can only determine whether the companies live or die have the ability to hire men to achieve the innovations that this company wants to achieve, and we had a very direct stand from these sources who gave the information, many of which are very careful. I enjoyed reading much of what it says and in one of these. Then, by permission of the president, we say, "For every 100 bucks. " which the company invests in research and development is about 50 k. directly to the state funds in the form of taxes on pay and insurance fees over a year later, the company's financial budget is reimbursed on account of the investment of the 25◯35. But that is why it always has a 15◯25K. ... onthefeit. The government's accolades before an investment, so the state has always been secure before giving this study and development scholarship so that it is as if it is just very well assured. But I always like to see some numbers behind what's being said. A respectable president. The above bill describes the significance of going back to the situation as if it were 20 when it cost 7.9 billion. But if it had been 30%, it would have cost 10.3 so the extra would be 2.4 billion. Now the decision has been made to make a further 5% change, and it will likely add a number of 1.4 billion so that the result could be 11.7 billion in all, and it's just good to see that number. That's a high number, certainly. But based on the bill we've been discussing here, we were discussing subsidies for the value tax on here, film production in Iceland had no numbers. Here, however, we have a plan that may not be possible, but it is at least there as a reference so that it can be identified with the significance of it. At the same time, we can figure out what this can get us into the box compared with what I read from this review of at least 1,5 to 25 bucks. which would be the net of a government fund, or of which it is of great importance, 15◯25%. So, of course, I would have that in view of the government covenant that seemed to want to make the difference. But I believe that and I just want to thank the majority of the Committee for holding this up and reaching back this 5%, so I just wanted to support the situation as it happens. It's not a very big bite for a big company. Swallowing that it's going to drop from 1100 million to a billion. That's not the biggest cost of all this. But this is certainly helping smaller companies to keep their companies busy, to hire people who have the authority to have knowledge that is so necessary for us. This industry and this innovation have been called the fourth support, and of course we should just nurture it as we can. It matters to us that we are not merely thinking of a fishing road as some export or tourism industry that is now relatively low - paying but of supporting and promoting sectoral activities that can then compete with other countries in terms of pay. So I just like it, and I'm happy to back it up. That's all I've been saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u115	A respectable president. I recommend, on behalf of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for the Committee to Reflect the Act on Money Surgeon and the Funding of Terrorism. For sins of possessions and other things. The bill suggests changes to legal laws on the use of money and terrorist funding, No. 140/2018. These changes are based on the changes made by international financial measures, the group fTF, in their methodology and guidelines for visible property since 2019 and on the experiences established on the application of the law. The committee discussed the matter and found visitors, and we received reports. The European Commission has developed its official policy that national legislation should at any given time provide adequate protection against the financial resources and funding of terrorism and meet the international requirements to protect against such offenses. A regular review of national legislation is being done on both international commitment and the application experience. The majority of the cells think the bill is important with reference to these views. The majority of the committee, however, contributes a number of adjustments to the bill in the light of the reviews and other consultations. First, there is specific changes in the use of terms and wording. Second, it is suggested that a member who is planning to provide for the services of the local virtual sheep is working from a fixed labour station in the country to ensure that Iceland's Sellabanki can adequately monitor the activities. Third, a change in terms of proper terms is proposed so that comparable rules apply to comparable individuals in a financial market. In this regard, I refer to a detailed discussion in a committee study on these changes. In all of this respect, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the above changes. Under the opinion of more parts of the literature, plus what is being said here, giddy. Councilmen, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Ágúst Garðarsson, Ásldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Guðbrandur Einarsson, Hafnar Höndsteinsdótir, Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, and Steinunn Ánar, the Þóra of Árnadóttir, have said almost a full house.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u116	Garðarsson. A respectable president. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for the Committee to Refect the Act on VAT-Smblancement Taxification and so on. The bill suggests three changes in the VAT laws intended to be temporary. First of all, there is a warrant for reimbursement of VATs for rescue teams in the process of preparing rescue teams for rescue work. Second, it is suggested to increase the number of electric automobiles that have been funded by a sum tax and provide a new budget for the source. Third, a change is proposed in terms of authorization to release a certain amount from the taxpayer's taxes to re-selling on eco-friendly cars. The committee discussed the matter and came to a meeting of guests and received reviews. This is mentioned in a committee study that follows the discussion of the case by the Committee wants more of the part to be held in particular. It is the objective of the government, the number of electrical vehicles and other eco-friendly automobiles in Iceland will be 100,000 by the year 2030, and it is assumed in the Treaty that full energy exchange will be no later than 2040. Therefore, it is important to contribute to the energy exchange in people's cars, and it is the available bill step in that direction. The long-term legal sources, or less than a decade, of less value tax from automobiles have played a major role in energy exchange in human cars, fleets, and so it is important to continue in that direction and to extend the action of these based on experience and good effectiveness evaluations. The majority of the Committee suggests a change in the bill in order to bring down the value tax on light wheels, as further reported in the Commission's opinion and to include articles and good coverages on the subject. In front of it, the more part contributes to the approval of the bill by that change. Under the opinion of most of the literature, as well as from here on, puk. The people of the assembly, Guðrún the Hafsteinsdóttir daughter of Diljé, Mist Einarsdóttir's daughter, Hafdís the Hafsteinsdóttir daughter, and Steinunn the Þóra of Árnadóttir the Athenian.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u117	A respectable president. I hereby recommend the Committee's 1st Causality of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill to legalise a change in terms of cost taxes, mass limitation, power cars and so on. The first smaller part supports the integrity of the mind. The bill on rescue missions because of changes in automobiles to special equipment for rescue work, but the main component of the bill turns toward the tax relics due to electrical vehicles. Since 2012, 27.5 billion have been present. Billions of tax returns from eco-friendly automobiles. This bill suggests increasing the number of electric vehicles that can enjoy such indiscriminateness this year and the next about a third. This is expected to result in over 5.5 billion dollars. lost money for the state's funds. The first minor segment of energy exchange in transport is positive that at the beginning it has been created as incentives to speed it up, yet it shows that they are unchanged, and it seems that they have been given little attention to the way they spread to different social groups. As shown in a bill report, more than four million small - income groups, such as micromotives and minimums, were involved in the cost of automobiles, such as micromotives and automobiles. Because of motor inhibition or family involvement, such expensive automobiles simply cannot be afforded. They prefer to use old cheaper automobiles that use more conventional energy. It is fossil fuels in which eco-efficiency, production of automobiles are already marketed, and the introduction of their disposal is inevitable. It would be more intimate to provide them with the will for maintenance, thus creating incentives to extend their life span. It is important to fully exploit the inevitable eco- tracks and delay coins. The formation of new sources of renewal of these vehicles with new automobiles will be at some point. Also, the memory will make the first smaller part of comments to the priorities that last in the bill for rising inflation, including Because of rising fuel prices, along with large increases in growth, which have resulted in a growing pay load of loans and rapid increase in rents that realize that many homes will not be able to live up to. As long as that's the case. If the first smaller portion of this money were to be spent to help the lesser and the worst, rather than direct the number of people who have, despite the conditions described here, the funds needed to acquire or renew the electric vehicle would be sufficient. The situation in Iceland as well as in other parts of the world is very serious. As never before, in addition to the high cost of housing, there are tens of thousands, whether on loans or rent. Many people look forward to difficult times, and they need to make big sails. They are not about to buy an electric car, the government's actions for the worst homes have been on a swamp film, but here in the name of a political policy, they are involved in those who are well - equipped to buy an electrical vehicle for five million, 5.5 billion. Although the goal is good, this priority is in the light of circumstances that are totally out of control. This is more than the government's counterrequisite action against inflation for low - income groups that were recently introduced with a popuck and hung over the price of action. For low income groups, there are 4.7-6.5 billion.2 billion. Those who can afford their electric cars, 5.5 billion. Let's make it the last time. On the other hand, the first part of the memory supports the energy exchange, but it cannot support further appeals to those with enough money to be used for power vehicles while using the income that others paid in the state's funds to support the groups on foot. So the first memory part will not support any other articles of the bill, applied out of the full map. Senator Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u118	Head of the 2nd, less part of the Economic and Business Committee. A respectable president. I'm here recommending a commission about bill change of credit laws, No. 50/1988, power vehicle size limit and so on. I hereby recommend a committee study from the 2nd smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee. Other smaller parts support the subject of the bill, and the tax requisitions due to electrical vehicles as important projects, important tools, the excuse, to speed up fossil fuel emissions, though such support is largely up to the upper income groups to speed up the internal electrical recession, it is particularly important to help the electricalization of cars. In the past few years, the fleet of rental companies has usually driven nearly half of the newest cars in Iceland. These are cars that end the postmarket, and it seems that the purchase of these enterprises has a huge impact on a combination of automobile fleets in Iceland as a whole. The organization has also called upon the decision that there will be a policy decision to stop the new registration of fuel and diesel cars later than in 2025 and that the building of loading stations will be encouraged. In line with that. In order to reduce road transport emissions, however, the main factors are the development of a variety of travel practices, the reduction of automobile travel in general, and the growth of public transport. In this context, in 2012, another lower part of the administrative sector wants to respect the government's growth of public transport and the local community in the capital area, while the total collection of the state's committees on that contract was about 1.5 billion. Instead of this failure of public transportation, the Icelanders might take over a government of equal - laity, liberals, and kidnappers in Germany, whose government responded to rising fuel costs for the Ukraine of war by subsiding public transportation and providing a huge discount on trains and buses. To say that, I strongly support this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-14.u119	A respectable president. This bill suggests that there are two major changes in the values taxation laws, on the one hand for reimbursement of cost-employment taxes, so that there are specifically allowed to be reimbursed due to an increase in the import and sale of electrical vehicles, to each vehicle, to rescue workers for saving jobs, and, on the other hand, to the mass limitation of electrical taxes, to substitution of the taxation tax from tax on tax-free taxes, due to the increase in the import and sale of electrical vehicles, it is also proposed to a change in local tax retails to prevent certain taxes from paying a well-expetured taxpaying taxes from an eviction to the retailable car. A third smaller section supports the above changes, yet it seems that the Committee's discussion suggests that several changes in the subject of the bill should be proposed. At their jobs, the Commission called for a memo from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs on information relating to the distribution of valuable tax, the coincidence of different energy sources and different revenues. Data reveal that as income increases, the use of the element increases substantially. Thus, 47% of all elements are used for eco-friendly cars at the top of the income for an individual and 24% for families. It is clear, then, that the intention of injury is far more useful to low - income groups than to those with less incomes, and thus the war of its execution against the righteous transformation. In energy exchange we believe, and I think it is important to contribute to the integration of energy exchange costs and, as a result, would also include low-cost eco-friendly vehicles, such as metal cars, promoting the availability of all biodiversity groups of ecological energy sources, is a very important factor in the righteous transition, and, therefore, I think, the right to make the suggestions for it. I also comment on the fact that this culminating system does not take into account the importance of reducing the number of traffic cars to deal with the increasing air pollution and pressures on the road system, erosion of asphalt, and not biting people's health. As a result, if a small number of traffic cars do not work together, it is not enough to increase the cost of buying electrical vehicles. In current laws, there is nothing that prevents one person or family from using the source, often even an individual or one family from obtaining many vehicles by using the tools, and there is nothing to prevent a person or a family who owns vehicles used in fossil fuels from being used in an attempt to add more vehicles at home today. Why do I make comments about this? First, because there is a mass limit for this reimbursement. There are just a number of people who get access to this reimbursement system, say goodbye to a professional group, that people are using their reimbursement, often to own a lot of vehicles, or that people are making use of the reimbursement to get a third, fourth, or fifth car, just some toy, perhaps even toy. I don't think it's good use, neither of this saying, nor of the public tax, to pay the price of a third, a fourth, a fifth vehicle, even another vehicle. The reason for this is twofold, actually complex. But let's focus on these two points that it's that dinner that I mentioned that there are only a number of people in a year who can get this reimbursement. The fact that the person can use the reimbursement twice and even three times doesn't make me feel equal to this. Clearly, a person who can buy a car twice a year is a member of a higher income - than one person who can afford to buy only one. I wanted evidence and how these inquisitors had benefited people from the number of automobiles they had when they enjoyed the incubation. I'm just going to explain, because I don't think this request of mine made it clear that I got at least not the evidence I thought I'd been asking for from the Ministry, so unfortunately, I'm not used either in the committee opinion or in this speech. But what I was trying to do was see how many cars were available to that person or family when they received this reimbursement, not how many eco-friendly cars or how many times before they had paid back money, but how many cars were written on the person or family when the person received this appeal, and it was to substantiate that often the family's third car, which must be said to be completely unnecessary. If we're talking about cutting down the road system. When speaking of air pollution, he begins to talk about the serious health effects that cut out, whether from a car or from a broken road system, affects people's health. As a result, I have changes that I will explain below in order to consider them. But that is exactly what it says in the opinion of the committee, a respected president, in the light and in the spirit of working on righteous transitions, which means that energy exchange should be equally available regardless of the economy but at least in terms of the economy, we will make adjustments, but I suggest that the aim for the survival of the policy should be primarily for those who need it for their own transport. This means that individuals and families who have no car for enjoying a full reimbursement of worth tax, while those who have one car for whatever type receive half reimbursement, and those who have more than one car for whom there is no reimbursement. Thus it is possible to save substantial amounts of money and also ensure a more equal distribution of these reimbursements on the righteous distribution of the one that has been reimbursed. But with these minutes I have left, a respectable president. Then I'd like to focus on the metal trucks that I feel are a very short-term resource in this country. Sources of low-value taxation were first added to the law in 2012, but the purpose of which strengthens the competitiveness of environmental vehicles with little or no carbon dioxide emissions. For a long time, a link for tving cars is used for this injury, but they often pollute in the chapters of a fuel truck, and now such indents will run their course as the smaller part; yet, the third smaller parts support the econominations always being excluded from these elements, despite being very eco-efficient vehicles. To be honest, I was surprised to learn that as long as a link between two trucks that are contaminated considerably more than metal cars, this reimbursement has been paid in the past few years, if they have always been divorced for years. But the situation is the same. But in view of the fact that the tweezers are on their way out, I believe that the record cars are coming in in the name of a righteous transition and due to environmental views. Methane trucks are, in fact, a very life-altering vehicle. As a result, they also use international fuels, an assessment of gas available for waste in this country, while gas itself is much more destructive than carbon dioxide or up to 25 times more damaging. So burning appreciation is essential rather than letting go into the atmosphere. Therefore, driving a metal car allows for two roads, burning dangerous gas, which enables the car's users to shun fossil fuels. Most metal cars have oil for both fossil fuels and an estimate that certainly falls outside the definition of clean energy cars. On the other hand, metal cars are much environmentally important than contact trucks, since most contacts are able to drive a long distance in the methras than most contacts do. Two trucks can usually drive electricity. Then there are enough extra metals in Iceland that will have to burn a considerable supply of fuel for metal cars that would be good for good use rather than for the waste of new record cars, more expensive than new electricity cars, and less expensive and contaminated productions. Methane reimbursement offers positive benefits and good energy exchanges. Investment for lower income companies who cannot afford to buy new electric cars to expand the source leads to a more righteous exchange of energy. So I suggest that we add the law to drop the value taxes at first sale and re-selling metal cars like those electric cars and hydrogen cars. I further suggest that the number limit be added to the 7 mg. Compatibility of the number of hydrogen cars. That's 15,000 vehicles. Other than that, I support this bill, but I believe the lack of a complete vision is that a righteous exchange is included in an account and that we must activate this efficient resource as the use of metals as fuel. Of course, the environment is for our own good. Any threat.
