ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u1	A respectable president. It is clear that, at times, the State's authority needs to go into lawsuits, in judicial cases, to protect the interests of the nation, to protect the interests of the nation. However, it does not always seem clear when or whether to sue a court case, to form when ministers have sinned against law, and especially if ministers have sinned against law, and it is a pivotal step to administer the relevant case or to the relevant lawsuit in court. I'm here to refer to the proceedings of the current cultural and tourism minister, formerly the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture to a woman who handled her case for the Justice Department of Equal Opportunities after applying for the Ministry's position. The NTSB found a very clear conclusion, which was that a minister had violated an equal law by order of a new Ministry Secretary. I say a milestone because it is not the first time the Ministers have sinned in terms of equality. For instance, Jóhanna, Sigurðardóttir, became guilty of equality, as well as of Bjarni Benediktsson, also reminds me of the highest. Food minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir. These are probably all ministers who have been doing their best, but the results became this with the Department of Equal Opportunities. However, all these ministers decided to negotiate with the individual because there were clearly other interests that were greater, i.e. Equality issues. So we have these examples, so it is a turning point when this case was taken to court. Of course, we know that the government is not a multiorganized government, but I am curious about this: Is there some political evaluation that is present when such a landmark decision is made, which involves a very particular political message, even when it comes to equality? When a minister pleads the courts, was the case for a discussion in the government? And then, "What food occurred when the case was taken up before the district? " It clearly emphasizes that a minister has been guilty of equality, but it will take only four hours to decide to handle the case before the National Court. That's why I want to know, because there are so much interests involved, both in this case and also when we look at the bigger picture, and my question is, What standards and rules apply when a government minister decides to sue the courts and after the incident appeals? What evaluation of the public interest is required, e.g. The State's financial interests? We know that in this case it has cost tens of millions. When such a decision is made, were there an equal basis for this decision? So we know a little bit better if it becomes so that we can see that a minister stands before such standards, what rules and rules he has to guide when it is decided to sue an individual in court.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u2	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for presenting this inquiry, on what criteria or rules apply when a government minister decides to sue the court or after the incident in appeal. I have obtained information, and according to official information, the Icelandic state has appealed only to seven cases in the past decade, of which four of which are social cases, but there are also a few examples of the U.S. government's lawsuits in foreign countries and matters that the institutions have appealed to. Thus, the government's lawsuits are few. Then I'd like to mention, too, like a dog. In fact, a senator came to believe that the government of Iceland is not a multi-organized government. Ministers take along and are responsible for the entire administration, each in his own field of business according to Presidential decision. Therefore, it is determined by the switch between recruitment and Ministers of Which Ministers and Ministry are in charge of specific matters, making them a decision on the subject or appeal. Under the laws of state law, he cares for the application of the private matters that the State appeals to other people unless he has committed an attorney outside the official handling of the case with the approval of the local minister or state agency. At that time, a state attorney is represented by the minister responsible for each government case and is applying instructions for business matters for the minister who is once in charge of the State. It is both duty and the right of a minister to represent matters pertaining to his responsibilities. Hv. A senator here asks for rules or guidelines. To answer, the lawgiver has not set out specific rules on the terms of the State and the decision-making of those matters. This is in accordance with the general requirements for the office of a minister in whose field of employment the highest authority is in place. Hence, a minister's decision is to appeal to a matter or to appeal to the nature of a matter according to a somewhat ecstatic decision and has some room for evaluation. Of course, he is, of course, confined to written and unrecognized principles of public rights, including administrative principles, and I want them to give me a valid witness that includes all government decisions and practices having to be perfunctory. It will then be determined by the law on the basis of each decision and by the facts of which the viewpoint is objective. I can mention in the context of the fact that complex viewpoints may, for example, be possible. it is if the outcome of the matter has significant significance, precedents, particularly important interests, for material development, or if the solution to government or judgment is apparently considered to be false. On the other hand, attitudes based on emotional, hostile, or personal reasons are generally considered indiscriminate. I also refer to the formula, which is about a comparable solution, the average rule to apply only to a legitimate goal, and that there are no less effective measures to achieve that goal, not being strict than necessary. All these rules, of course, bind a minister's hands and must be of high concern to a minister when he or she decides to appeal a case, an appeal to a court of law, or another decision. There are, of course, some professional requirements for the responsibilities of ministers, when we consider the basis and main characteristics of the Icelandic government. When a minister employs public interests in this way, it is also necessary for a minister to obtain objective counseling based on adequate and correct information, whether it is counseling by the Ministry or by any opinion of a state attorney. Then the Ministers can request the legal opinion of a state attorney under the legal law, as well as the opinion of lawyers outside the office at such times. Is this often done before a decision on the matter is made by a minister? This is part of a careful treatment for the decision being made. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned the financial interests of the State, and I believe that this is one of the points that can generally be considered in an assessment of the perfunctory viewpoints that lay the basis for a decision on the subject. The same can be said of equality, as one of the aims of the non-inferiority laws, that governments could be equal to decision-making in all areas of society. However, each case should be considered, weighed against the individual interests and situations and assessed individually to the degree of individual viewpoint. In 2019 the Ministry of Presidency issued instructions for the Ministry and the Office for Action in dealing with a government attorney's office, which is primarily a reflection of a project that has developed over the years in the issues covered by the State, a large part of which is now being covered. It contains some of the views I have already traced, and it is assumed that the minister and the Ministry will consult with a state lawyer when deciding whether to revise a court case in order to a higher court. In March 2021, policies were attacked by a state attorney. One of the main results of that work was that a state attorney should shape standards and principles for the premise of the court in judicial matters in behalf of the State. [[The president calls.]] I have no more time here to review the general rules and standards that apply to these matters than to believe that this is a very important matter to discuss in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u3	A respectable president. I wanted to discuss this in terms of a case held in Iceland's Supreme Court during the past week, a case that hasn't flown very high, despite being political in nature, which is the State's legal rights or insurance agency against the United States Alliance. Twice the government has lost this matter, but for the third time it tried. It's a matter of paying to the most efficient group of disability-employers, the worst set group that accepts special support, people who earn money under the law's policy, the issue is about the right of the state to cut this special satisfaction. It was then a social and child - care minister who introduced this decision in the government to try it. I recently asked a question to a new Department of Social Affairs because I wanted to test whether he felt the same way or make comments on this case, i.e. to test the case for the third time in Iceland's Supreme Court despite double losses. [[The president calls.]] The answers show that he did not. I think this matter has something to do with this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u4	Madam President. Often we hear a minister say that they do not comment on individuals' issues when we are asking about, for example. refugees who are to be disfellowshipped or other sources of communication on our system. This is understandable because the word of a minister is very difficult. There is a great deal of weight in the management board's actions when the power ratios are as uneven as between Iceland's board of directors and individuals. Hence, a minister must carefully determine whether he will take the upper layer of the legal system against individuals. It is of interest to examine the law on state law because a state attorney is not under a minister but under the Council, and in effect, it could be said that a state attorney was because of this particular position under the laws of de lfacto multiorganized government. This would require that Iceland's government take a mutual position on matters that are fired. [[The president calls.]] In the case mentioned in the opening discussion, I would now have thought that a prime minister, also a minister of equality, would take good care of the cooling effect that this sort of thing has on people who seek justice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u5	President wants less of it. The members of the council may be able to get involved in this discussion for one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u6	Madam President. Yeah, I'm on top of it. Ministers are human, just like what they're doing. Like all nations, members of the international body of elders will make mistakes. Mistakes are okay as long as you don't repeat them over and over again. To admit a mistake, as we saw the greatest. A president does last week, is much less rare. I'd encourage the highest. Each minister to make a mistake when he is told that he has made a mistake not to delay the matter by going to some lawsuit but simply to be more men and women and accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u7	Madam President. Not very dear, Sigrún Helgadóttir was quoted by a naturalist when she had charged the order of national parks in an old Thomson National Park under old equality laws. When Hafdís Ólafsdóttur charges with the Ministry of Education and Culture at the Ministry of Education, she is using her rights by the law and the result is in accordance with it, and so is far more serious than any other matter to the minister of the state. The kingdom itself joins the individual. This imbalance of power should not be tolerated. A balanced political decision is to be made on such matters. But first of course, respect the decision of the NTSB. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u8	Madam President. V.E.G. Here the prime minister listed matters that had been given to a minister. This is not the only case that has been fired because some steps are being taken, and the appeal is appealed or reported, and the appeal is again. That's the way it was, for example. with the National Court case, when a minister in the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, continued indefinitely, and the Allellis's agent felt that it was a reason for sending an opinion or some sort of appeal to a state lawyer for the inconsistencies between parties when the State uses all its heavy charges against citizens. It must be kept in mind, more dignified president, when this sort of case is being handled in court. [[The president calls.]] The State must somewhere realize that it may be wrong to admit it, not continue to demonize its citizens in court. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u9	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for this inquiry. I find this to be an intriguing question and an answer to the highest degree. To some extent, the prime minister was surprised, and otherwise he was disappointed, at least if I spoke to myself. If I get it right, there's really no particular food. In fact, it is not a systematic strategical decision to decide whether this is done. That sounds like it's a bit intervening. Then it is quite difficult to understand this differently from the government's firm stand, and then a certain minister, to the citizens. I just want to agree with what has been presented in this case. Congress members on the balance of power that is going on when a person is confronted with a legal offense on the part of the government and how big a decision that is, how much heavy and dramatic it is on the part of the government to sue the citizens of this country who are just trying to bear the hand of their heads. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u10	Hv. Councilmen, the speech period is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u11	President. I think it is important to mention only the minister's responsibilities in this context because it matters how a minister's responsibility for this violation is involved. When e.g. Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was convicted on account of equality, and she followed the advice of qualified committees completely. It was not a special decision for a minister to discuss pushing one before or another or something like that. But the management board failed there, and it was not unusual for a minister to be responsible for it, but in a similar way, for example. and already the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson broke equal law. There, it was particularly the decision of a minister to take one over another. There, a minister specifically found out which candidate was the most qualified. There the minister is personally responsible. [[The president calls.]] There is a difference between what we need to keep in mind when we consider such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u12	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers and discussion here. I'd also like to highlight the degree of a breakthrough and the extent of the transition, the decision to go on this issue called here, because, based on the highest figures. Of these, there were four cases involving individuals and four cases involving social matters. This shows that there are few court lawsuits, such as the Supreme Court. Minister said. Moreover, it is important that the State is clearly identified on the basis of what is being done and used with weight. It is true this conflict of power, which exists between the State and the city, when the State takes its burden and all its power, also under the cover of state funds, against its citizens. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to use clear implementation and clear rules in this regard. In this context, I want to ask the highest. Minister: Were these matters discussed in the government? Because it's special, we'll see it in all the evidence. Second, has there been a discussion that moral principles will be adjusted in connection with such matters? Third, what is the highest effect. Ministers that this is meant to form equality, equality, is it people, women seeking their rights? Has the highest. Ministers worry about that? I'd like to say that when the government is used in this way, administration rules must be completely clear, that they are respected, that it is moderate, and applied to the rules of law, and also the legal rules we have set for ourselves. That's the kind of thing we're gonna have to do, in my opinion, try not to happen again. At the same time, I thank you very much. Minister for the answers. [[The president calls.]] I know it's the highest. A minister was not very concerned about this matter and would preferably not want to see it, since the minister of equality in this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But this is a decision taken by the Minister of this government, and I'm directed to the Minister to sharpen and explain these frameworks, to these regulations and standards established by the Minister to sue the citizen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u13	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. I want to make it perfectly clear here that when ministers begin their jobs, they get a presentation on these registered and unregistered rules that I covered in my answer, which they are supposed to follow in their decisions. They are responsible, because this is a particularly relevant reference to recruitment matters, that the work of relevant committees is in line with the rules that apply, and then it is the ultimate responsibility of the Minister to make a financial decision. The relevant committees often give several candidates an interview to a minister, and they need to be told that there are a similar questions and a comparable process but a final responsibility and a decision has to be made in these matters. This is always considered at the beginning of each terms and for any minister who enters the government. I was only at the end of my case earlier to testify that it had been given instructions on government behalf, and it was one of the findings of a policy career at a state lawyer's office that he would shape the standards and principles of the premise on matters that are being submitted to the court on behalf of the state, which I believe is an important factor because the law is from 1985, if I can recall. They are in their years, they are very public, and they may not take full account of the changes in society, so this is at hand. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir asked directly about a particular matter that I could inform, as I have previously informed, that the current minister of education and culture obtained a legal opinion because of the case discussed here. Former Secretary of Education and Culture Reported on the judicial committee's decision of equal rights to the office of the Ministry for a federal hearing on June 2 and 5, 2020. This opinion was never submitted at the meeting, so the government was explained to this decision. [[The president calls.]] But as explained in my case, it is ultimately the responsibility of each minister, and there is no vague or unclear of it in a Icelandic administration directive, a final decision, and that they follow these principles I mentioned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u14	Mr. President. It was during the 150th Council that I called attention to the existing transport and rural government minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson on the neglect of driving inspection and service on the northeast corner of the country because of the original forces' plans to stop driving at Langanesi, Rausfa, and Kaposker. However, that was not the case, nor is it true that many of these are interconnected with one another. In the foundation of this inquiry, this question now centers on the interest of an automobile owner in the country who has to attend a long - distance service check. This is especially true in the case of farmers and others who need to put large - scale machines, which rarely go outside their area of view more than 15 miles [15 km]. The reasons for this inquiry are regulations concerning driving techniques No. 414/2021. The demand for increased safety of automobiles is for granted, especially since the number of automobiles in Iceland has been huge because of the increase in tourists in the last decade or so. Clearly, this requirement applies better to car owners in the city than in the countryside, making it more difficult to avoid having a car ban instead of reviewing from home with the resulting cost. There will be a driver's order, if e.g. Oil or fuel leaked, but before, it was revised, as I said. A driving ban, of course, is a very harsh procedure. A observer should ban driving, if oil drops are dropped from a gearbox or a machine. Knowing that there is a lot of old cars in which such leaks are not easy to stop, and this too is said of them that oil spills do not particularly have a major impact on traffic safety. Then there's a substantial increase in neglect, leaving 15,000 to 30,000 dollars on the one hand. and from 15,000 to 40,000 k, e.g. For trucks and buses. But not everything in this Regulation is bad. One of the good things is that there is a time when a summer vehicle is being checked, i.e. In the spring before they go to the highway, but not in the autumn as they have been before. It is obvious, a respectable president, that this service is normal and fair to provide as little effort as possible for automobile owners, for unacceptable the travel of car owners by long distances, by the expected loss of income and employment to perform legitimate surveillance. It can be ensured by a more comprehensive requirement for the services of the interviewers, contracts that ensure that the sighters, or capable observation centres, of all parts of the country with respect to their established criteria, the maximum number of miles, or the travel time of sighting at the home core. It is a service that would be a pleasure in the interests of a country's settlement. We cannot insist that the same value is for those living in the most scattered parts of our country and for those living in urban areas. The situation here differs greatly from that which occurs most in the EU, from that of its origin. I'm concerned that this directive will put the most pressure on those who have less... old and maintenance cars... and have to go a long way further. The State's demands, which are more likely to gain weight for certain parts of the country, are involved in correcting this, especially in the light of the failure of a service employer to meet this challenge on his own.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for this inquiry. A test for driving vehicles is aimed at ensuring that the condition of the vehicle is safe and adequate and that the environment is also taken into account. Failures and other problems that are found in time give the opportunity to prevent an accident. Therefore, routine opinions on driving are important for traffic safety. This, in turn, is whether it is sufficient to ensure that the interests of national car owners in the country should be reviewed as a result of the revisions of driving vehicles'opinions are listed in the CIA's reading manual in accordance with the European rules. Annmarks are there divided into minor limitations, major limitations, and serious or dangerous problems. Only those considered to be serious or dangerous will then lead to a ban on transport. The maintenance room is now changing the study manual in order to further ensure the European rules for driving a vehicle's examination. The Agency will work at them to ensure that no longer exceeded the state's international commitments are required, but it is clear that in some respects the guidebook will include stricter demands than has been made to date. A boarding room is designed to make an awareness that my will is being done only if it is necessary to take into account the safety of traffic. In accordance with local regulations, it is permitted to give an expanded access to the ratings of motor vehicles in Flatey, Breamfjordur, Gímey, and Hisney, under conditions that they are not transferred from that island. The rules also state that if the owner of a vehicle living farther away from a laboratory than 50 miles [80 km], he could request an additional two months, he would not be able to move a vehicle for observation within a period of time. Then next year it is permitted to give an additional 30 days due to review, provided that delay has not been extended. The requirement for such deadlines is that spare items cannot be provided for the vehicle repair or have time for it to be repaired at a workshop to correct comments or comments that led to the reexamination of the vehicle. In addition to this, I have authorized a vehicle to be checked up to six months before a legal inspection. Then there is no charge of neglect until after two months from the date of the visit of a vehicle. Much of the above is involved in dealing with drivers who live in situations where it may be difficult to give them a routine view. In terms of whether a service observer is rich enough, I would like to say that the regular reading of a vehicle is a service performed on market grounds. Monitoring of the laboratory activities is primarily linked to the quality of observation and is carried out in accordance with the tour manual and the rules of driving equipment examination. The additional hours I mentioned earlier are then seeking or trying to make sure that those who live away from an laboratory with an active function will be affected as little as possible without a threat to traffic security. In the United States, there are four companies that offer driver's views, views, and facilities in many parts of the country. In addition, they have access to mobile vehicles in several automobile shops. In addition, two companies use mobile observation centres that are prepared to go to places that are not stable to see. Then, as an accountant's workshop, they can obtain a complete inspection of vehicles that have been postponed at a regular examination. If an observation centre should be required to offer services in certain areas, it is likely that this would result in a significant increase in cost that would result in financial gain, resulting in expensive services for users. Such new responsibilities, therefore, would need to be well - defined and clear in order to reduce their cost. Then, at the end, I'm just gonna have a chance to go over where the labs are in Iceland so that you can figure out the solidness of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to make a comment because we can see here the light of an unevenly balanced, cross-bordered display. At a meeting I even held. with the inhabitants of Thorsfar, it was reported that early Army had had a regular presence at Thors Harbor working with a local automobile plant, but this would have been stopped because it did not respond to the costs, for all of this would be on market grounds. Thus, individuals from Thorsbourg have to drive 70 to 150 miles, more often the latter, in order to obtain this view. It is a private member who deals with a legal opinion that makes a decision not to do a certain area, and if people don't make it 60,150 miles, the state will charge them high fines and profit from the lack of facilities. All of this should be done on market grounds. This is often the case with cars that would never otherwise use highways because people may not be able to do business that far beyond their hometown. Clearly, there must be some improvement here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u17	Mr. President. I would like to thank you for this discussion of the service laboratory. Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter's woman, it's about community equality. It's about the need to examine vehicles to make sure they are safe, but as with other basic services in the remotest areas, it is not available everywhere. Marketing assumptions, the Minister says now, just like two years ago when he was asked out on this. You see, that request was, in fact, just as the answer was almost exactly the same. At that time, there were also four companies who performed the ministry with two capable observation centres, but then the minister said that he was going to see if there was anything they could do to ensure minimal service. That was his final answer, seeing if there could be anything to be done to ensure minimum service. And now we're talking about labs. Apparently, this wasn't being checked at the Ministry. He shows the exact same answers two years later to the hearts of the very people who are living under the very circumstances of not being able to attend this service that seems self - centered in densely populated areas of the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u18	A respectable president. I want to thank you that we are here discussing driving equipment and the interests of car owners who live far away from our labs. I also want to be happy that there is a review of an opinion manual in the CA office and that this review will review any possible ways to meet the car owners and owners of vehicles that are most difficult to approach. V.E.G. There was a minister over the possible flexibility that has been established and I just want to encourage that there will be a continuing consideration of different ways to achieve an even more flexibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u19	Madam President. We should not forget why we examine automobiles. This is to ensure safety, but it is also to ensure that things such as leaks do not cause damage to the environment. But this is a ministry that we need to be able to offer everywhere in the country. How do we do that? Not just by looking at it. We really need to think outside the box, and we need to find ways to secure both the local and the national safety and the environment, because the last thing we can do is to give a discount of the safety and environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u20	Mr. President. I appreciate this inquiry as discussed here, and I have to admit that I was shocked when I got to the top. The minister of wood declared it earlier, if I correctly understood the minister, that it might be expected that the requirements would still be met by automobile owners in the scattered settlements would be in connection with an updated Group's inspection manual. I just hope that there will be a way to go faster than farther in terms of the factors that have been discussed with this driving ceremony. In addition to this, I think it is necessary to provide the many additional expenses of transport to residents of the scattered areas, both due to high taxation on fuel, the cost of maintenance of automobiles, and so forth, on the streets. The part about the cost of moving to a rural area is far more extensive than this particular point, and I urge us here to have a discussion about the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u21	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the highest. Minister for the answer. I find this interesting to ask, in fact, I've never had a car or have lived in the country in my adult season, although I've lived there as a kid, but this crystals so well that when we put family obligations on people, like that. paritaprevir "Gísli Rafn Ólafsson mentioned earlier, "we're not going to make fun of it. We put them on people to ensure traffic security, to ensure environmental and otherwise, but they have to do it realistically, and they have to do it with regard to everyone's interests, especially people who may not be in the best position to pursue a private service, and with a view to being realistic and easy because this is so important. There must not be any barrier to driving safety and environmental considerations involving contaminated objects such as automobiles. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the members of Parliament who have spoken here. There are big and small issues that matter to us at any time in life. Someone might say, " Well, it's not a big deal to have that car examined, and it just needs to be done. ' However, this is what the national settlements face repeatedly in this matter, and then there are other subjects. It is always the call to improve and expand our ministry. I simply want to encourage a minister, because there is a great loneliness in my opinion here at the council to do even more, in an effort to make the most of the cooperation and support. For example, a ministerial servant may arrange for a group to improve his service to the settlements, including the U.S. in this matter, taking advantage of the cooperation and harmony. At the same time, I would like to encourage the minister to speak clearly in his later reply in that we do not have to look up at the fact that the Red Sea, Thors Harbor, Langanes, has to wait another two years for an even clearer answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would like to encourage the Minister not only to speak but also to use this cooperation in the council on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u23	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and whoever's spoken here. I realize there are services and the Internet is reasonably tight. We have such examples, though, not only on the northeast corner but also on the Westfjords and elsewhere. I think this is something we need to put our arms around. I agree that, of course, all of this needs attention to the whole, security, and environment, and all of that. But, first of all, it's a burden, it's a driving order. The person has to get the car to the shop and if it is, for example. Inside Húsavík, he needs to get back home if you can't pick up parts of Húsavík, etc. So it's a complicated subject, and it's based on equal rights. V.E.G. A minister said that there are two systems of observation that have mobile checkpoints or automobiles. He also felt that the cost of consumers would be increased if the companies had to care for this. But I view this increase of costs as already present and we may have more than one, because going 100 miles to check a car with related employment loss, etc., of course, there is an additional cost for perhaps a few persons in itself in the big context. I urge the Minister again to consider this. This is something we need to put our arms around us and can't let another two years pass to do it. It is not only that this affects people living in the scattered areas but may also affect people who are materially poor and who simply cannot let go of work to take their cars for a long time in view. So I think we should truly watch to do more of a party's duty or to negotiate with those who already have these cars that they do this decently.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u24	Mr. President. I appreciate you having a great discussion on this subject. One down. A senator apparently misunderstood my point of view and spoke of a further string of rules that would be expanded from the present point of view when he was referring to the discussion that took place here on the study manual. That's exactly what made me ask for it especially, is a review of that manual, but the rules are going to get hard because we're working on so-called joint European rules. It is true that such rules must not be unrealistic. They often do. That's why I like it, and I don't know if I should mention it here, that those who believe in the European Union come up here and want to have special rules for Iceland, and I agree with you. [[Up front.]] I agree with you, and I'm willing to put my arms around this and try to do this, and of course we live in rural areas in this country, and I say, because I'm one of them, know the exact inequities involved in living on a farm. I'm not sure, however, that there are very many others living in a rural country in Iceland in this hall, but I have a clear understanding of that, you mustn't get me wrong when I come up here and say, "This is the situation. Now I'm going to list where these observatory are. They are in Grindasvík, Ryjanesville, Aklindi, Citynesi, Griffiffhesm, Shinskisholmi, Hahmbourg, Burgundy, Islefjord, Patrefjörður, Cup of the Year, Sheep, Akureyri, Osafsaur, Húsaví, Trufik, Fellabjordur, Nestrastra, Cape, Seleussis, Hvostens, and Vestland Islands. Of course, one day you have to go to a store, and you don't have to go to a special place to check your car if you've tried to make as much space as you can, as I described in my entrance, in both directions to take some time over a period of nine months to get your car in check. [[The president calls.]] But it's rough, you're right, and the rules have to be realistic. We're trying to make them that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u25	The President reminds the Minister to address the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u26	A respectable president. It probably did not go unnoticed by anyone, either the people of the country or the southwest corner, how difficult winter has been for us, especially for the thousands of people who are going to Hellish Island, including me and others. The mayor of Hoatotypetown is concerned about the frequent and long outcome of the road, pointing out their consequences to the rural society, its inhabitants, and its businesses. In February of the month, for example. closed for more than the whole winter before. That's why it's important to have this discussion here in the Assembly Hall, and we've only talked about it before, me and the highest. Minister, but I only want better answers so we can find out more about the rest. We need to be well prepared to ensure safety and good access in this important road, the next time winter becomes as difficult as it is today. Then there will need to be clear planning and practical measures that will take into account both the weather and the importance of the road. More often than not, funds have been needed to cope with heavy snow and traffic problems. It will come, for example. ... ifwereave old news of the Hellishean closes. True, and blessed, much has changed over time, the instrument has become more powerful, and the road is made larger, more accessible, and better through roads. But is that enough? Perhaps there is more to do than before, in view of the road that will only increase over time. Since the time since the construction of these projects some years ago, there has been a complete change in the migration of people on the road, and especially if we watch an increase in people east of the nations and the growth of companies. The effects of these finals are more extensive than in the past with increasing number of people and increased tourism activities. Are we in a position to respond to increased tourist currents and to increase activity in the area? Is the State power to keep up with this happy population and the growth of companies east of the mountain? Therefore, it may be wondered whether there is enough work to be done to deal with and to ensure bioavailability, good and better, on the road, especially when this becomes an ongoing problem in the face of increasing weather intensity. While winters today have been extremely heavy, meteorologists predict even more snow winters, the construction processes themselves are not changed. There's no more service available, just longer closing. So, finally, I'm going to ask if it's the highest. Ministers consider the need for changes in procedures needed to cope with conditions and appropriate changes in transport practices, e.g. whether additional funding is needed to further the task, whether specific measures are needed, such as construction of workers with tunnel or road spaces in the area, or a recovery section as has been called. My question is, what's the top? A minister will see to it that some changes will not be made to the point that these changes will not be completed long ago. We know the weather, you can't hide behind it alone. There is much you can do. Is a minister ready for that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for the inquiry. It's just like what's wrong. A senator mentioned that we had a small discussion about this in the past winter. So when you start scratching your head and asking older men, there's nothing very long ago, but some decades, this same Hellishek could be shut down for weeks. I was talking to one who has driven to Reykjavík for 40 years, living in Selephoss, and this was a tough winter, it was, I think, shut down for six weeks. When it was opened, the snow was seven meters high steel. True, great, heavy snow winters can come. Of course, this is something people know about in other parts of the country, and we here south of the country are not as used to it. But because we've been through this before, it was a good opportunity to get the best information, and it's my assessment, including my own. Based on the road type information, that the current year's success has been as successful as possible in keeping the Hellish field open. The Hellish oath is very crowded. A senator entered, a road of service class one, and what does that mean? Yes, they try to keep it open 24 hours a day every day of the week. This year has been unusually snowcapped, or perhaps primarily extreme, and, therefore, the circumstances have often developed that there has been no chance of keeping the road above Hellishótti open, and it has had to be temporarily shut down 19 times since the beginning of the year and sometimes longer than we knew here a few years ago when the depressions are faster, and then there was a calm and a shovel. The weather has been going on for more than 24 hours, even in another 24 hours. A decision to close the road is made to carefully investigate matters in consultation with the specialists of Vega, weather experts as well as the operator's response, and when circumstances require closure to ensure safety of road users. However, such ends are tried to be kept low, and we all remember when it was discussed that men had closed too late and some 70 cars were trapped in a row. Why? The first car got stuck, so they all stopped. As a result, it took a lot longer to open. Regarding other measures, it is proper to assume that in the 2000 tunnel program, there is a possible 8.4 - mile - wide tunnel under Hellishkim with the stairways at the Kolttar Hill and under the Summits. It also shows that geological conditions are not beneficial in terms of seismic activity and calculus, and they do not reveal the technical needs of a solution, and because of heavy traffic traffic, it is clear that the tunnel needs to be doubled with an emergency tunnel. In the 2021 new schedule of road generation, we can expect further observations from a flood of land under Hellish's Hillus. - I agree with what. Senator. We need to do all we can to make sure that this importance is as open as possible. But sometimes we must accept that we live in Iceland, and we cannot cope with the forces of nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u28	President. The capital area is growing rapidly, reaching the Smokey Peninsula, up to the city's fun, and across into Aarnes County. Young people are running high apartment prices in Reykjavík while they find themselves in a calmer environment. Thus, it is necessary to review transport in this new area of the capital and find ways to secure access, even when Mother Nature reminds us of how north we live, in the fluctuating weather that we now experience. At the same time, we have to figure out a way to create a remote working position for workers on the days when Mother Nature decides to shut everything down and let no one come here to the Big Avenger Land.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u29	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for a very interesting inquiry. I confess I've never personally heard the idea of paying a tunnel through Hellishi. It caught my attention what happened in the winter, now it's been high. One minister noted that the pagans were closed 19 times over the course of a year, and not much of the year has passed, so that is quite striking. It was not just the Hellish oath that was often shut down but that there were other weather routes to close. Now I think that because of climate change and otherwise, we can assume that this is not changing, so it is obviously time to think about future solutions to keep this important road open. I may have wanted to try to direct that inquiry to the highest level. A minister has asked if any assessment of the practicality of this procedure has been made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I imagine that this may have bigger walking projects that I know about, and I'm very curious about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u30	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I have to say that this may not have been a great addition, and I am not surprised that the roadmaking is just quite satisfied with its performance in winter in this regard. It'd be different for me before if something had changed. I'm not saying she did a bad job, like that. I think the stress in Vega is very much, and most of it is on the side of the roads and the snow for the day in and day out. It is more than simply going over these difficult pagans because it is difficult. I go over there a few times a week, and pagans are really hard, so I'm not gonna let it all go down. The second thing is that I find it hard to hear the answer: Well, we live in Iceland, we just have to accept it when the heathen is closed 19 times from New Year's Eve. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it not the time to rethink things in such circumstances? There's been more weather forecasting. We must also be ready for plan B. If plan B isn't a tunnel, and everything's fine, I'll buy it if it's not a reasonable way according to our superiors, then we must ask: What else can we do so that we don't land next year at the end of 30 weeks? What else can be done? Is it possible to break the road? Is it possible to come and put a bowl of roads in the most difficult chapters? This is a way that is very busy, is a service class one, and should be, in effect, a star - service class if there were any such service group. Heavy on this road will only increase, and you can't say to our people living in the Elfs, the rest of my home society, or Who type, or back east: Hey, the weather's just so bad that you have to accept it. [[The president calls.]] This is the development, and then we have to try to find all the ways to keep these important roads, which are these contacts to us here on the southwest corner, open as far as possible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to his work because I know he's ambitious in this case, and I know he can do what he wants to do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u31	A respectable president. Thank you for a great discussion here today. It is true that the capital area is increasing, and the number of people who choose to live a little farther than perhaps work here, including the rest of the population, is increasing. because shelter prices are very high. A senator mentioned. He was also wondering if it would be necessary to have a telecommunications network on those days that would not be possible. That's exactly what we're doing, not just the days that are bad weather or impossible, but really making this choice. We're just trying to start a test project on Selephoss these weeks. We've been trying to make it possible for us to do so in the vicinity of the capital area where big places could be like this. I don't know about any cost plans. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter asked about the tunnel. They were simply pushed aside because they were not considered acceptable because of earthquakes and other factors. I just thank you for the encouragement from what happened. A verbal vendetta, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. If there is a great deal of support in getting a lot of money to improve transportation in this room, I'm happy to share it and try to place it in a good way. But I've also been trying to be realistic because the whole country is under and out of places that have by no means the means known to us here. Sometimes I feel that we're starting to expect quite a lot while we haven't reached our basic service in a better place, as did what we were discussing earlier on the subject of cars.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u32	A respectable president. Between Dalíkík and the Grima Islands sail the ferry Searides the whole year. The cruise takes up to three hours each way, and the ferry takes over 100 passengers. During wintertime, the ferry sails three or four times a week, but in summers about five times. Many people have brought my attention to the events of the ferry, but the main issue is to renew the ferry to the Islands of Grima. It's getting old and really bad, and it's been a long time for renovation. Now we are looking for a need to make a costly renewal and repair a machine. So it is natural and necessary to have a conversation about how to do the most. An inside minister sees the fresh business for the future and sees if he can see any solution. My first request today is the highest. The minister of wood intends to make use of the reinvigoration of the Giorese Treaty, and if so, how? If we talk only about Gímney and the people of the island, Gímney is not about to go to bed. There is much persistence in the population, but there are a lot of fish in the country, which is, of course, the lifeline of people on the island. The population of some 20 verses in the year has not missed the number of tourists in the country, but it is the island that tourists want to make their way around the world year and year after year. The situation on board for passengers and crew is unacceptable. One toilet is on a ship that can squeeze, the smell of clover in the ship that is rising to bad weather and rust that has almost ruined landlocks. Respect for a proper ship is essential. To my second request: Does the Minister's opinion allow for restoration of processes in the light of the government's policies on energy change? The question does not require any further explanation. The country has a general problem, except perhaps the Western Islands. Baldur is a poor ship that has repeatedly broken down, and last to the point of almost a terrible accident. The Searider ship that goes to the Gremite Islands and Saevar, who go to the Merry Islands, has become both very poor and not at all acceptable to citizens and tourists today, as well as their use in several years will contrast the government's goals in climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir this request for a Monster Island vector. Whether a minister intends to promote her renewal is asked. Then, of course, it is, like, cot. A senator came on only later in his case, that we have blessed with the restoration of Army energy exchange, a special decision that had to be made during the last term. We were blessed to do so and put money into it, so we have had the ferry that may be so proud and hard to deal with. It's urgent to renew the British shuttle Baldur, the same as those of the Gímese Circums. An old, bad ship, said what. Senator. I think it's true and I've always been, I've heard, I've recently met the locals who had fancy ideas and wishes. The answer, of course, is yes, the minister will take advantage of it, and then the addition of Hiscey. The priority of the renewal of squares in this country, including those of the Germian shuttle, is to work together with the next transport plan and aim to suggest that a new course of transport for 15 years with a five-year plan of action will be planned before the Council of the next autumn, with preparation for a white book or a policy document currently being completed, the Green Book being completed in the last summer. In line with the objective of Iceland's climate and the government's treaties, new squares will be motivated by energy sources other than fossil fuels. Hence, the minister of this defined process, of course, will not fail to use the means to be renewed in view of their goals. It will be worked with this approved priorities. It has to be said that there may be a possibility that there might be a new source of energy like ammonium, ammonia. Of course, this requires production. It is part of the use of the green solutions, the green industry, the activation of new energy that we can use on ships, perhaps planes and heavier machines, and the need for us to do so. It's gonna be hard to do, I think, on an electric ship that way, it's gonna be hard to load in Giboney, but anything can be done. Above all, we need to look for ways to do this. All of this, however, costs a considerable amount of money. As a result, we must be ready to prioritize them here in this hall and I will now say this here at the moment. A senator because two squares are a prime example. Senator. There are also various roads, and I saw that recently there was trouble. A senator, along with another senator, to present a decree to set priorities faster, and we need money both in the Southaf way that I am ready to get as soon as possible, and in these squares as well as in all the other ways we have been setting our priorities. I will gladly take them away, and put them in the squares, rejoicing; but I will not make the money; they come from here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u34	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the good things presented here. Minister for his answer. Now, of course, I'm referring to the Óskur of Berglind's Wreckery. Gímney is one of the great superpowers of nature that our beautiful land magnifies, and we choose to show and hopefully, increasingly, after a two-year break. I remind you of 70 billion pure incomes of tourism in 2018, and many people predict that this number can easily double. The destination of Grimney, at the Arctic Circle, is something that the new wonder - looking Norwegian airline, Niceair, could certainly use for advertising and advance. I strongly encourage ministers to contribute to the fulfillment of this good thing and the sooner, the better, because this is one of the most advanced places we can offer. Nausea is not to be offered simply to want to go to the Islands for joy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u35	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Berglind Mr. Guðmundsdóttir for bringing this important matter to the attention. This is so that as long as it is not a targeted government policy, the inhabitants of the Western Islands, the Flats, the Merry Islands, and the Grimites are transferred to forced migration from islands and to land, it is the obligation of the government to ensure proper, regular, and safe transport of these islands. Now that energy exchange in the sea is part of the government's action in dealing with climate, there is a fine opportunity to renew or restore the processes that today travel on these routes and to reevaluate how to improve the services given to make Iceland's natural spheres more visit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u36	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for taking this matter on the agenda because I think it's very important. Both the transporters in our district are of great importance, both for those living in Gímney and for Piglet, but especially for tourists who want to come there. We are always trying to build up and help increase the number of employment instruments. Gímney has been one of these fragile settlements, or brighter settlements, if we're to put it that way, and I believe that if we're there with a fine ship that sails between the country and islands, it's a major factor in the ability of those monsters to build up a proper travel service. It's part of people wanting to go over their heads with the boat to the island because it's obviously not acceptable what it is, or like a dog. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon said: You are not supposed to want to go back to an island as beautiful as Gímney.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u37	A respectable president. If that question had come up here five years ago, I would have said it was just simple; it should have just stopped in the city of Gímney and made sure that the ferry would go very regularly in summer so that people like me could go and visit this beautiful place. It's one of the few places I haven't been to in the country. But after I've sat down at a council, I've especially become very interested in northern politics, and then I've been absolutely convinced that this is a very important matter for us Icelanders, not just from settlements, but from international affairs, that it is built in Gambige. That's why I think it's a very interesting question. And in view of the descriptions that appeared before the leadman, I will choose a very beautiful weather to sail into Gambiey, while hoping that a new ferry might soon come. And then I want to reiterate the importance of this process, of course, being driven by green energy, because that is, yes, what we have to stand for, especially in the north, is that sailing through the area is as environmentally appropriate as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u38	Mr. President. I want to thank you again. paritaprevir I Ósk Guðmundsdóttir for this inquiry. When I first read it, I thought, " Wait, okay? ' Haven't you been reinvestmenting the Monster Island business yet? It's been a really long time since this was the case. I've had the privilege of coming to the Islands of Grima, and I'll join them with a bang. paritaprevir My friend, Jakob Fritman Magnússon, that this is one of the greatest places I've ever set up in my life. It's a tiny island, I don't remember how many minutes it took us to walk it all, it's in the middle of the ocean. This is a huge experience. It's amazing to come there. And in view of what happened. paritaprevir Brutish Haraldsdóttir said I wanted to mention that I came there at the end of December, and it was truly cold, but it was extremely interesting. More interesting, though, it was to talk to the people who live there because there are people who have children who don't attend school on the island but who have to go to the mainland. Our island has become a continent in this sense. I wanted to say that this process is modern, it really is about the environment. [[The president calls.]] It's also about security. For the people who are sending their children to travel for some hour each week and who already need to live apart from their children while at school elsewhere, this is of utmost importance. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to get this point in addition to everything else that has been said here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u39	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The secretary of the wood for the answer. I am also grateful to all who participated in the discussion. Clearly, this part of the program is very important to the national interest market. I'd like to go back to the point on the energy exchange and ferry routes, but in the majority of transport groups it says, by permission of the President: A transport program of 2019 constitutes a focus on supporting environmental transport by linking ships of water in ports and the use of environmental energy sources for all new processes. This is in accordance with the effectiveness programme in the climate of 2018Howl. The majority stress the need to provide a perspective on who is involved in such projects and on the challenges and opportunities of such projects while pointing to possible and known solutions for energy exchange in Icelandic ports, focusing on the electrical exchange of ships during the pier. This is one of the key elements of the energy exchange, i.e. that energy sources used in public transport are in line with the government's objective. It's a pleasure to hear an interest. Wet Ministers are expected to renew transport through energy exchange in mind. I also call for the development of a transport policy that is not present today to ensure both safe transport and the visuality of the inhabitants of the population of those living on the streets to approach other urban areas and essential services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u40	A respectable president. I'd also like to thank other members of the council for the participation in this discussion here on the Gímira and Gímney, that's no question. From my conversations with the locals, although we have a flight there, we can be told that the cruise is of great importance to the tourism industry and that tourism is more and more important to Grimney. So I don't think there's a question that you have to do as much as possible to replace these ships. I've had a meeting with Baldur on Brefjordur, the Merry County Center and Searides and people's interest in these materials. If the council is prepared to prioritize more money on this level, I exist and my ministry. But if we don't get any more money, we can't go into it, and I quote the senator's decree of this inquiry, five and a half billion dollars. conducted on the southern fjords in a different way than putting something back on your priorities. Mule tunnel, Axi, anything else? I don't know. Unless there's new money. Then I'll be glad to take them on hand and try to get things through faster. But we will, of course, continue to prepare and work on these terms because this is the future. But it is also important that we discern our potential, the amount of money we have in transportation, and that we need to prioritize our funds, how we will answer what should be first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u41	President. This request may appear to be simple, on the part of the government's decision to bring the real estate records to the Housing Agency, and on the basis of the registration right there. The reason why it is a little important to consider that the register is initially that we are at the General Meeting that assign certain duties to the project to carry out certain data. It is largely here to ask users to pay for access to that information. It is important to ask whether this registration is moderate. In the current situation, when an apartment price is on its way up, it is important that people be able to look for information about evolution as it is happening to us in time. Otherwise, we may be at risk of a rumor that triggers even higher elevations than is actually going on, thus blowing up certain prices. The real estate may not be updated sufficiently quickly and be accessed to that information. As indicated by the Ministry's announcement, the Minister is going to submit a bill for needed legal adjustments during the spring council. That proposal has not yet come out as far as I can see it. The problem is, as I mentioned earlier, that it is specifically in the law that there is an Iceland's National Registry that has the mastery of real estate registrations and that it needs to be changed. The change in all laws was not made so many years ago, where ministers's names were specifically taken out and replaced with the word "Proconsistency. " It may be convenient to have, e.g. Just the Institute of Environment, and then it would be decided in a Precinct or some Ministry ruling which agency oversees their law. Finally, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in general on policy in reimbursement of public data collection policies. To a large extent, this information is produced by the inhabitants of the country, living where they live. The amount of access to such information should, in my opinion, be very moderate, preferably nothing, and particularly not for electronic inventions where it is the same as no cost at all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u42	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the inquiry. In terms of whether or not there is a record of maintaining the registration that was in effect at a national registry after the real estate will be passed by a bill to the Homeland Institute, I'd like to mention that they are trying to win the bill quickly. I don't think we can get it in before April 1 and will definitely come here and ask the council for a variant to get it in and out in spring. In other words, the transfer of income and fees is only in accordance with the current currency, so the transfer of such ones does not affect the registration. To answer the opinion of the secretary's fee, it's a matter of opinion, like what it says. A senator mentioned. Of course, when a price is moderate and when it is not. Thus, you can look at a single number and feel that it is either high or low without realizing what work is behind the figure. The deposit was in its time frame based on a detailed cost analysis by the financial adviser Delotte, in fact, some time ago. The cost analysis of the record has been increasingly discussed in Iceland's National Supreme Court and, by permission of the President, I allow myself to refer to the Supreme Court of Iceland No. 837/2014, with a trust in Creditinfo. ... againstthe Icelandic Reich and Iceland's National Congress. The case considered the fate of the currency of the subject, and as the current currency is developing based on: ▪ The right to assume that there was enough reliable calculation would have been the basis for the strategy on which the money of the partner would pay, and the cost would have been in material contact with the service to which the currency was intended. Therefore, if the currency presupposes the fee to take the fees, it is considered that there is sufficient trust and a compatible principle and perspective on the amount of service fees. I'd say this was my answer to the senator's inquiry. As for the Minister's policy of reimbursement in public records, I believe, a respectable president, that significant social benefits would be due to some general introduction of data such as this. This would account for the cost the government would have to place on the Agency. It is also in accordance with government policy to further open access to data, thus promoting innovation. We don't know what any people out there could do with these data, they would have access to them. But as soon as I say this, it is right to assume that various data are currently published on open data, either alone or in cooperation with other governments. This includes: Find the legal file, rent list of apartment housing, purchase list of real estates, location logs, etc. But I think, a respectable president, we can do even better, and I think we should continue this road, opening access to data. On the contrary, we will have to be ready here at the council to contribute extra funds to the individual institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u43	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. In fact, this is part of a larger and necessary discussion of government payment. When is moderate care taken? Could it really be that there is a value to the maintainer of the network files 700 k. every time someone comes in there to look another person up into a national file or a real estate file? Is that a modest price for every crack? I'm not sure you are. V.E.G. The minister came here and confirmed that the Supreme Court has come to the conclusion that this registration is in accordance with law, but I think the government needs to consider carefully whether it is moderated, e.g. with regard to this personal file and the necessary information to follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u44	Madam President. It is a great deal of time for public data to be available. The cost of the current currency is so far away. The actual cost of access is estimated from dollars, not hundreds or thousands of dollars. Open access to data has been generated all over the world as it has created new opportunities, both for innovation, for research, and for critical community reviews. So it is time to reexamine all the stakeholders involved in selling access to data. The benefits of opening the bioavailability are far greater than the income collected by the government in this way. It's time for a digital revolution to access data.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u45	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the inquiry and the Supreme Court. Minister for the answers. To me, this inquiry raises questions about payment in general. This has been the case with those who have already talked about the actual cost of delivering these data, which, in fact, have left no one, the cost of printing out some of the documents available. There's something I don't think the public is particularly aware of, which is that governments are permitted to pay for the services they render when the currency responds to the cost of doing that service. When the fee goes beyond the expense of giving the service, which is clearly appropriate when billing more than a thousand dollars for handing over to the PDF document on the web, it's tax. [[The president calls.]] It's defined as tax. Such taxes can be imposed only by law and are passed on by law on the increase in the wealth of the state. [[The president calls.]] I believe that we need to rethink only the sum we are accepting that is really not a service fee, as the people may think, but a tax. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u46	The President reminds me of why. Congress officials say that the session is one minute when a brief comment is made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u47	President. Bank of real estate files is this: monthly service fees, 4.100 bucks. Strategic web service 68,800 k. Then there's real estate records and real estate fees, or the owners' story of real estate or changes in real estate history. Then there is an electronic book index, 850K. It is specifically stated in the law but defined at the price of 72K. in units. It's very strange when you look at the cost, like what's happened. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson noted earlier, that when data is delivered electronicly, the cost is not that high. When I'm at the highest. According to a minister, then, the Council must be prepared to provide additional financial resources in return, suggesting that this service is being used to finance other national work plans, or Homingham and Engineers at the time of the project. It's not a matter of business. Although this was referred to the Supreme Court that when the registration was given, it was permissible, things have changed since then. We're trying to go into an increase in digital processing, which is simply less expensive for the delivery of data. When it comes to other charges, e.g. For certicates requiring special work, where you come to and do some sort of calculation from complex inquiries, the cost is more understandable. But when it's just pulling data from a database, it's something I'd make a comment about being less accurate. That's why I'm asking back the highest. Minister: Do Ministers believe the current currency is moderate? I'm asking the highest. Minister of his opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u48	Madam President. I have to admit, I haven't quite reached the point. Their criticism of my answers was made by members of the council here. I'm not going to debate the outcome with the Supreme Court, so I reasoned that this was the assessment of the sentence at the time of the registration of the current currency, that it was well prepared enough to meet that it was a service tax, not a tax. As a result, these funds are not being used to finance other activities. I also think that I said I was in favor of that, and it would be my policy, as well as the government, to have access to open data, and that this could be a major opportunity for the newly created society in this field as well as for someone else we haven't provided for. But it is quite obvious that if the funds that are paid today to support a certain part of the Agency's activities are not available, they have to come from somewhere. They can't come anywhere else but from a government fund until we've finished all the digitality and the savings. Often, however, significant structure needs to be maintained on both databases and on the services tissues in order to be able to do so. I feel like there's some experiment here for a conflict that isn't there and I just have to say that I'm a little surprised because the inquiry is fine and positive and that you need to take this discussion about access to open data. [[The president calls.]] However, it does not mean that we should start creating some disagreement that does not exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u49	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of Justice for coming here to discuss my inquiry regarding the electronic management of the Foreign Institute for the receipt and payment of applications. I discussed a similar inquiry with the local officer at the highest level. Minister of Justice, Sigríður Á. Andersen, in 149, 2019 C.E. At that time, a Government Review had recently submitted a report on the treatment and procedure of the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland, carried out at the request of the General Assembly. One of the main findings of this report was that the head accountant considered that the recruitment of applications might be improved and the implementation of better information systems and an electronic application procedure could also be shortened. V.E.G. Ministers and senators who then participated in the discussion agreed on the importance of highlighting the introduction of electronic administration in this field. Changes in demand for services of the Foreign Institute in recent years call for a change in procedure. This is true of all applications, whether of deposit, international protection or common protection, due to mass flights for those who have now fled Ukraine. In 2021, there were 7,000 patent applications and an increase of about 20% since 2018. Then, in 2021, a 125% increase in citizens's rights increased from the most abundant year of 2019 C.E. The number of applications for international protection was 2021 872, but more candidates are expected to be 2022 while traveling more frequently to the country. As far as I know, most applications and data are still returned to the Foreign Institute on Paper, no matter what their permission. It's not welcome, topv. President, for staff or candidates, that application forms are all on paper and that they get in an information system by hand, much less when the number of applications is increasing year by year. It is time - consuming, inaccessible, and dangerous. Candidates have no option to monitor the position or the outcomes of the application during the procedure. In addition, the use of databases and information systems could give governments much better together information to use in planning and planning services. A foreign agency has repeatedly defined electronic administration as one of its most important reforms. Still, it seems like a slow ticket, so I've put down some written questions to the highest level. Minister for the induction of electronic and digital administration in the services of the Foreign Institute, priorities, costs and impact on users and the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u50	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The foreman for these questions, they're timely. Many things have happened in the past months and years. The first question was asked: How does the introduction of electronic administrations to reimburse applications at the National Institute of Iceland, and when can you expect that all sales will be electronic? The induction of electronic applications for citizenship is complete, i.e. first edition. The next step is to follow through with version two based on user and staff comments. Links are available for future applications. The induction of electronic applications for reimbursement is about to begin and the Agency expects most of the renewals to be electronic at the end of the year. By then about 50% of all applications will be electronic and it will be estimated that 2020 will be all electronic applications. What ministry will be the first form of electronic technology? An electronic application for civil rights went into the air on January 19th. Already there have been applications. Will the Agency's supply be used concomitantly with digitality, and when can you expect that all payment will be digital? Digitization cannot be provided until a new information system has been developed which supports and carries digital methods. Its induction is planned during the year 2022◯2024. What is the estimated cost of implementing electronic and digital administration in this area? The budgets 2022 and 223 count 35 million each year and are calculated by the figure 70 million. In the opinion of counselors and potential partners, statistics around that number have appeared but, in fact, larger and lower numbers. The invitations and covering data are being prepared to produce potential partners in this relationship. What advantages might result from such induction, either for governments or for users of the ministry? The benefit of the user is clear and numerous. Electric and digital management becomes faster, more efficient, time - sparing, and reduces costs. The user controls the processing process of his application and has an undisputed access to the information he is installing. He can pick up or delete information when appropriate and monitor the location of his application. The user would be led forward and ensure that the correct data and payment are transmitted according to the type of application. When full automation is achieved, the system will give the user real time when you apply for renovations or citizens' rights. To date, login of the system is dependent on island.is which has not been obtained for people without a social security number who are working on solutions in these materials. There are other advantages. There is an increasing level of service. This reduces the cost and reimbursement of documents. The application procedure, as I said, will guide the user and he will direct the procedure. Interactive contact will be established, chatrs, and Internet chats at opening time. Remuneration time is significantly reduced and self-imbursement is actually during certain applications. Time and money is obvious. There are photocopies, scans, and mails. The safety of data will also be much more. The benefits are clear, and many are for the Kingdom. Electric and digital management is more efficient and more efficient. It can be assumed to increase the satisfaction of customers. The responsibility for the application and for the follow-up data is in the user that is rarely required for further guidance. Payments for applications are made directly into the credit system and are related to the applicant's social security number. Staff no longer need to enter applications, call for data, and reimburse them. A better use of employees is being made in the removal of applications rather than in the process of receiving and registration. The number of applications will be manageable, i.e. She doesn't necessarily call for additional staff. The system and the career are eco-friendly, satisfying the goals we have set and are believed to be self-sustained. There are other advantages that support this and perhaps too much to list all of it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u51	A respectable president. That's a good question from what happened. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. But I may not feel any better in this discussion of who the politics of the government is discussing these applications, because I think the political government's words about refugees will be no better if they show us electronically, that we're discussing them here what they think, because the magic of the three federal parties in this series has been one thing and only one thing: efficiency. An electronic administration is very well connected, and as I say, increasing access to services is fine, but it does not alter the reality of government policy to the people here. In this regard, I would like to remind myself of and observe the outcome of the government on continued cooperation with the red cross, which was the focus of my heart and the support of the people who come here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u52	Mr. President. Get out of the booth, sometimes say lndependence, but there is something that can be broken back when it comes to the treatment of foreigners. Somehow, most people just seem to agree that it's just a little bit that's going to get very thoroughly in the way of people taking refuge here. Substitution has been called repeatedly after the National Institute of Iceland introduces electronic management and payment of applications, holding the applications and processing of them in an active and safe database. It has been years since the Agency itself agreed with this and defined it as a key project for them to attack on exactly such measures. But I think it's perfectly clear that the electronic administration in general of foreigners calls for very decisive initiative from the Ministry of Justice and has to do with much more institutions than with a foreign agency. But it shouldn't be that way, despite all the reports of digital Iceland, etc. has simply neglected investments in digital infrastructure? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We may have to do much better there to ensure that flexible and brilliant foreign administrations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u53	A respectable president. We live in a time of digital revolution, and when it comes to developing a digital attitude toward the service of the State, we Icelanders are certainly very well on that subject. There is a big misunderstanding, however, that the digital interface improves the services provided, hastens speech therapy, or increases efficiency. The only thing changing from getting applications on paper to electronic forms is something that will surely save some trees, but the handling of the applications will usually take the same time as before if none in the internal processing of the Agency changes. It is not until we start using the technology for the self-administration of applications within the Agency that we start to see the digital revolution provide useful services. An example of this is the application for civil rights to the Generals. The role of the Foreign Institute in this process could be performed automatically by causing the system itself to request the missing data and then writing itself a review that says the conditions and which are not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u54	President. I'm going to thank you. A senator for this inquiry, and he believes that this is a very important discussion. It was good to hear that as the highest possible. Minister's gone over here, intention. I just want him to see that this is going to work because we're all aware of how much pressure we've had in the Foreign Institute, has grown in recent years, and will come back to grow. It is absolutely essential that we use the latest technology to provide better service in a more efficient way, where digital services must be the main concern. I see, like the highest. The minister went over, that now a civil rights application, the usual route, has become electronic through Iceland.is, and the head of the Foreign Institute has introduced it to us in a General and Education Committee when she was introducing the Agency, these plans for them. I reiterate that we need to see this digital trend taking place in the Foreign Institute as well as anywhere else. [[The president calls.]] We have seen a tremendous amount of efficiency and better service in many places, and now we want to see it in the Foreign Institute as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u55	Madam President. I'd like to read from a message, with President's permission: A friend of mine has applied for visas in Iceland, but now she's told that her case is lost at the Foreign Institute. What advice do you give her? I said, "Tiny"? How can it be lost? I don't know, she was told by the National Institute for Foreign Affairs. Do you think that she will be turned away from the country because they have not answered her for six months and now say that the case is lost? A week later, hi. She got an answer yesterday. She's having a permit for one year. I said, "Yes, it's very good, but didn't they say the application was lost? ' Yes, but now she wasn't lost. I think, Madam President, this is a sign that maybe it's time to modernize the Foreign Institute and put the applications into electronic form. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice for the Answer and an explanation of the fact that better information systems and electronic and digital administrations are being introduced at the National Institute of Iceland, although not all of this is at the same time. I would also like to thank the members of the council who have mixed in the discussion and would like to encourage the highest degree. A minister to follow along and back up on this induction and progress at the Foreign Institute that seems to me, in fact, just these days, as I've observed on the Internet. There has been much in the talk that recommends this, suggesting that there will be a great simplicity and a great improvement in service to all those who attend to the National Institute of England as the induction takes place. So a few things have happened, for example. it is not always easy to use the services of the Foreign Institute for those living in the country. Digital road transport improves bioavailability from all over the country as well as the possibility that directions may be tailored to each application, saying an interactive service that suits each individual and thus could better meet guidelines on simple issues and have more time for more complex matters. This has also shown the importance of the ability of applicants to control information and add or to the missing information. [[The president calls.]] - Yes, it was a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u57	A respectable president. I just want to thank you again for this discussion. It is clear that she is needed. Such a misunderstanding may have been obvious, but it may not have been sufficiently informed. They're asking who the politics of the government is about the arrival of refugees and so on. It simply puts politics on to speed up the treatment and make the system more efficient, and it is especially after the Alleger's agent made comments on the long pay period of the agency we attend there. Since then, this has nothing to do with a contract with the Red Cross and the legal services that the Ministry needs to perform for the spokesmen of service to the people underneath. It's in good shape. Away with the booth and it goes slowly in foreign affairs - well, I did well here for what's being done. It is said that it involves more organizations than Foreign Institutes, and that is correct. That is why we are on the same trip in the county settlements, and we are the Ministry that is probably the longest in accessing electronic and digital services and is totally in this preparation. Everything can be done automatically in the application procedure - yes, I told you before that 50% of all applications become electronic this year and 100% at the next one. So this is all doing and doing everything right here. It was also pointed to this great pressure that has been on the Agency, and I want to use this opportunity to mention them in the process the indistinguishable criticism of many members of this institution and the staff that work there and have requested that people would rather point their spears at me than the Agency as a responsible person for this because I have often felt that these comments were unfair toward the workers. [[The president calls.]] Then it's the text message thing. I'm not going to rule out that there won't be a mistake on how this institution works, as can happen to all of us in our daily lives. [[The president calls.]] But exactly this example was taken, it will be one thing out of the service that will be available where the applicant himself keeps all the information and is actually working with his or her own case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u58	Madam President. On January 29, the National Prisoner Association of Iceland, U.S. Department of Justice and Ministers of Justice, along with the head of the prison and the chairman of the Union union. The occasion was an attack on a prison guard at Hólmsheki in the same month. In this letter, the government of the prison society is a source of great concern to the security of the nation's prisons. Long - term subsidiary reduces reactance and safety between prison guards and prisoners. In particular, prisoners who suffer from serious mental illness do not get the services they need because of lack of care. It can weaken the security of a prisoner's work environment, such as the bad examples. The law on the full execution of punishment clearly requires that it be performed safely and effectively. The prison society points out that by saying the law that there is a safe work environment within the jail and all equipment in it must support the goals of the law. The prison guard's pleas include, by permission of the president: ◆ Too few prison guards are on guard, and this puts the safety of employees and prison officials at risk. For one thing, on Hólmsuk, 3 workers on a night shift have as much as 50 inmates... There is also the fact that there is only one guard on the night shift with 22 inmates. The situation, a prisoner's partner in Iceland, has also described their concerns about safety and equipment in Iceland's prisons and has also been sent to the Ministry of Justice and Prison in January. It identifies the same points as shown in the case of the Society's prison guard. I'd like to, Madam President, to enter the highest. Minister of Justice, according to the Ministry's response to the cry of the prisoner's office and the business of action. How's the top? Minister of Justice responding? I get a question that's also relevant to the subject: How's my design in Iceland's prisons? Does she have rules about that? Are they placed in regulations or in other ways in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þórunn of the country's Sveinbjarnardóttir daughter for this inquiry. She's coming in here for a very important business. I've taken this to myself in particular for the Ministry and met with both the head of prison and the company of prisoners in Iceland. Surely there are many things we need to do in this regard to improve the environment of the prison guards, as well as the individual prisoners. In recent years the Ministry of Justice, along with those who have also been involved in the work, has been involved in their affairs and incarcerated. That there are many factors to consider, as I say, but the European Council's committee's opinion of defenses against torture and inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment made an assessment here 2019. This led to the establishment of a health - care group in prisons that included prisons. of which it was established a multidisciplinary mental - health team to provide progressive, continuous, and individual mental - health services to prisoners during a sentence. This has already given us special experience, indeed, and has helped us to see how we can improve. As an answer to that in part, the government last year suggested funding for the development of Little-Sun, and it says, to build up facilities for health care and rehabilitation for the entire prison system. This is about 2 billion, and this important and big project is being issued. In addition, prison entrances will be improved so that drug transfer can be reduced into prison and the distribution of such substances within its walls can be halted. There is hope that these improved facilities and improved health care services will enable people in prisons to build up themselves and thus increase their security in prisons as well as that individuals will be better equipped to cope with extracurricular life at that time. There's gonna be a position for a prison guard at Little Pass, but it's been a real pain in the ass. As the situation is today, prison guards do not meet the demands made in prisons. The Justice Department has at the scene of the Health Care Department discussed the current crisis in prison, in cooperation with health authorities, solutions to severely ill individuals. It is working on solutions so that a doctor's situation can be established on Little Test temporarily during the vital structure to take place. We have also considered what we can do better in the business affairs of the prison. The goal is to make better use of the funds we have and to increase the number of prison guards, as well as to increase their ability to deal with the complex problems we face in prisons. Of course, he differs greatly according to the prison. It mentioned that there was only one guard on the night shift on the Kybbidóggar, who has an open prison, and there's very little need for force or other force at that point. We have another one on Sugni, and we're looking at, for example. The management of these prisons in particular. There are a total of 43 prisoners, over 20 in each location, and nine jailers in each location, and that, of course, gives an eye to the almost comparable punishment, open prisons, that there may be some benefit in revising this management arrangement so that we can better handle matters and do better with those taking care of these prisoners at any given time. I reiterate that I have been looking for prisoners in this regard, and we are in the process of making changes in this environment. Of course, the big case at Little prison will be this new building that will be crucial in all its facilities, both for prison guards and for all health care, as we have seen. Of course, it's very important to add the scene where we deal with these difficult cases in our prisons and they're in Little Lava, and there's a need to improve, though earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert for this inquiry. There are too few cases of prison and prison interests that are discussed, and this is not a popular subject. I wanted to talk here about a waiting list. As absurd as it is today, this government has managed to create a waiting list for something that no one will accept. Of course, the length of the wait period is still a matter of human rights. Last year was about seven months and in some cases longer. In some cases, men who have been judged have arrived in a completely different and better place at last when they are called to penalize. This material is very comfortable with what I'm going to discuss later, a trial period. I'd like to wait to the highest. The Minister of Justice to do all he can to make sure that the men who wait for a release are allowed to do the sentence as soon as possible. It is an issue of rights to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u61	A respectable president. I also welcome this inquiry and answers from the minister. I think it's very important that we discuss this matter. I remember when I saw the mail and called in from the prison company we had recently had an agent on the General and Education Committee to review the OPCAT report. That is exactly where the U.S. government agent pointed out that the most complex issues arise in the case of two Ministryes, i.e. The Ministry of Justice, which leads to prison affairs, and to the development of the Ministry of Health or Education. Because we both have the highest. Minister here in the hall, chief. Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court. Minister of health, I would like to encourage them to cooperate in order to ensure important services for prisoners. I especially want to rejoice that we have been able to secure the operation of a mental - health team for prisoners at the highest level. A health minister was now introduced in January. [[The president calls.]] I encourage us to watch this. In such a small and wonderful country as Iceland, we shouldn't have some administrative county stop us from performing the best possible service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u62	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion, which is very important. These include the basic rights of those with freedom and the basic rights of public employees to be safe in their work. Sadly, this basic service, abduction, and a great number of other services, is so much less expensive and subversive. That's why there's danger. It's the same with law enforcement. There are too few people, there are too few hands to perform the ministry that is to be rendered, and danger arises. People walk long awake in inadequate employment situations, and in many cases there is a crisis because of the situation of those living there, unfortunately. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It must be taken seriously by the government. They must take this plea seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u63	Madam President. I would like to agree with those who have made brief comments and are grateful for this discussion. It is all too seldom that this important subject is discussed here in the Hall of Congress. Just like it's been entered here, including... of what? paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, it involves basic human rights, as well as those of those who are supposed to be safe. I'm going to make a minister talk about the work he intends to put on the table at this job. I know a minister is interested in this suit and believes that he will act there. What I wonder about in this, however, comes into play a little bit as an apocalyptic, huh? paritaprevir Þórunn, Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir, talked about. She asked if this would be possible, if I understood her correctly, on a fixed scale, if it could be placed in regulations or in other matters so that the feeling and safety of this group could not depend on the random priorities of the government at any time, whether this could be settled slightly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I would like to know if a minister had in mind such a fixed situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u64	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to mention a lack of facilities for staff in Copenhagen. Some time ago, I visited Cavibóggóttir and talked to staff and residents. It's a unique place in the justice system, but there's no place for staff. It's not just that there's one employee on duty on the basis of security. No, it wasn't a complaint. It was an incident where workers have been seriously ill on duty and no one was in the area to help. There are also approximately 7 m2 workers' facilities. There is no personal position, a conference room, or a dining area for people working there. Complaints have received comments relating to the situation of staff and emissaries from the State Labour Board, the State's Brunament Office, and the security officer of the branch office. It's not just a security issue that needs to be discussed, but it's the work environment of people in Sweden, which is a very important tool in the justice system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u65	Madam President. Thank you. Parliaments for the participation in this discussion and the highest. Minister of Justice for the answers. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to speak directly to the jailers, speak directly to the Iceland Prison Guard Association. It is commendable that he has already spoken to the representatives of Stop, but we need to have a direct discussion with the people on the floor who are doing this vital work throughout the year. We are discussing a foundation in the justice system, which, of course, is also a welfare system, because it should ensure that correction can take place and the civil rights of a prisoner are respected. The improvement will best be done in cooperation with the jailers themselves, the people working in the prisons. I didn't get the answer to my question about legal matters and regulations on minimum design in prisons, and I get to repeat it here. I think it is very important, as this has been noted in the discussion, that it is made clear and has improved how prisons, departments, and prisons should be conducted to determine whether or not they are in open prisons or in prisons, and that they will keep whatever else goes on. Here, very important public work is being carried on, and I was impressed only when it came to the highest level. A minister mentioned changes in a business arrangement that could then increase employees and would like to use this opportunity to ask the minister further on that matter. What does that mean? Will some part of the prison or business in this country be left out? It would be a fundamental change to be discussed in the high Council. Finally, we are talking not only about safety from power but about security at work if something happens to us, accidents, or other things that could disturb the safety of both employees and prisoners.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u66	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. Hv. the client asks for the legal and regulations environment. When I come in to the fact that I have it all examined, this business and business arrangement, we will, of course, need to consider everything involved in that law and order. When I'm talking about changes in business environments, I'm not necessarily talking about privatizing in jail, but I'm looking at how we could simplify that business. Then I may not least be looking at this open prison cell, since we have very negative units in my opinion - I'm having it checked specifically - run it in two places. I think it can be very positive to combine that function at some point and to ensure better design. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir entered the waiting list of prisoners. All you can say is that she hit the nail on her head. This is human rights, and although recently it has been better to process the list, and although there has been a large increase in the number of cases, i.e. with social service that prisoners can perform to serve their sentence, with ankle ties, and with the same age as this has been very difficult to deal with. I totally agree that this is a human rights matter and I've seen a lot of sad cases, at the time I've been in this office, about how bad this can get, and it's just inhumane. It's what I'm looking at, and I don't need to be encouraged to meet with the members of the Prison Guard. It's obvious that I've been sitting on very many meetings with them lately, and they're clearly on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u67	Madam President. Again and again, sex - crime decisions are reduced because of the long trial period, rape cases, and serious sexual abuses against children. Experiencing justice is experienced when punishment is dropped because of delay in excommunication? Does the defendant experience that the system is normal when the case is condemned more than three years after the charges have been filed? Just last month, we saw a court sentence in a rape case that had taken nearly three and a half years in the system. Why are courts giving a discount for this serious offense? This is because in the Constitution and in the European Convention of Human Rights, citizens are guaranteed the right to give rapid treatment. The defendant benefits from making a decision when a case is delayed, but there is a further trauma. A respectable president. I'm going to let myself go: Justice delayed is justice denied, they sometimes say. Defending civilians is the basic function of the government. Therefore, police, prosecutions, and courts must have the authority to work both professional and professional, and this is the role of the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice to secure these institutions of funding and support to work faster. There's no extraterrestrial science, it's about political will. Would this happen to the prosecution because the sexual cases are down in the list? No, sexual abuse has its top priority. What, then, does this tell us about the speed and progress of other criminal activities that are taking longer? We can see that, for example. Regarding the economic crime that goes for years through the system. My Criticism here today does not focus on the prosecution, it does not focus on the police, the number of cases is increasing each year, but it does not apply to the number of employees. The ultimate responsibility. Minister of Justice and I will allow myself to say that the responsibility is the Independence Party, which has been with the Ministry of Justice for 26 years in the last 30 years. A state of justice that cannot meet the requirements of the Constitution is on the feet of a loaf of bread. The government fails, the defendants fail, the people fail, and the court fails. This problem existed ten years ago, it was present five years ago, and it is present today. We are often here discussing wood, and sometimes we forget that the police, the prosecution, and the courts are important infrastructures, these institutions that the public has to seek their rights. President. I hope to the highest. Minister of Justice is doing more here tonight than talking about understanding the seriousness of the situation. [[The president calls.]] A time - set schedule is needed, and funding is needed to strengthen these infrastructures. The state of the state is at stake. It's about justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u68	A respectable president. For example, there is no overlooking the fact that the sexual abuse period is too long and there are some bottle - necks in the system. This applies not only to sexual crime but also to other cases. A group of people were put together to make a better analysis, and we guess that by doing their work right now in spring, and that is part of the plans I had to try to fix this, because it has to be done quite beyond that. It's not only the study that needs to be looked into, it's also the prosecution and then the loan that plays here together. It was published in 2022, and we are laying the foundation for a new program that will replace this year's end. There is no other way to say that it has been very successful in many ways, the emphasis on this series has been greatly increased, and it may even lead to its death. the proverbial balance, i.e. This long time, because much more of these matters are looking up on the surface than they once did. Of course, our appreciation for the extent of the problem is positive. This year's new legal releases agreed to raise contributions to law enforcement on these issues, i.e. In line with the emphasis of the Mosaic Law covenant, the investigation and the prosecuting of sexual offenses. That was about 200 million. K. The principle of the proposal was to look at the whole system so that it will take care of all the challenges involved in the treatment of sexual abuse and it is important to consider matters from the start in order for those who are able to enjoy the right treatment of justice as well as to be handled within the normal period of time. This 200 billion is supposed to be. K. progressive increases will be replaced with subsets in mind looking to the whole system, reviewing the situation in the treatment of sexual abuses complete over the system, and promoting the most needed areas. It is important to make the charges more powerful in order to increase the rate of the case as well as the number of police status and additional research equipment. It must be noted that it is not a simple matter to increase the number of officers in the field because this requires specialization. It has been a problem to obtain educated police officers who have been able to enter such advanced education and have experience in this field. But it is being reacted too. At that time, the State Attorney has also decided to appoint a group of people who go to work to review sex offenders, which will take the longest time in the system, with the goal of considering which factors remain to delay treatment so that the procedure can be improved and the duration of treatment reduced. This group will now return on June 1 as well. So there's nothing you can say but that I'm responding to this with full weight. We're looking at something else that really hangs with this, and it's how these matters work out. How can we make the best use of police officers who have expertise in this regard? Can we do this by uniting a perspective on the investigation of these cases to one place, although investigators can be located in different positions of office, in one place? This includes other factors we have in place, and there is a special team that I'm just getting the first ideas from right now and will get more in the weeks where we're also looking for the implementation of projects from the police to help relieve the tasks that in themselves can be performed elsewhere in the system, in other agencies of the Ministry, as well as for the development of the county. There are all kinds of permission companies and other jobs that should not be with the police. In all my conversations with the police leaders, I have emphasized that we are primarily looking for the police to carry out their special assignments and that we will try to reduce the rest of the work that may be done elsewhere. We are particularly looking to the county reforms in that regard. It's all part of it. As we've just been through the prison cases, we're trying to analyze these bottlenecks that are on this system, from the beginning of the investigation to the end of the sentence. [[The president calls.]] Some of them are on their way, and we are trying to make things right, and I am grateful for the understanding that the jury has had here at the high Council, with increased funds from which we have gained into these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u69	Madam President. Thank you for this very important discussion. I merely retort those words to the highest degree. Minister of Justice to now plan to reduce the number of cases of sexual abuse, place them in one place, hopefully another place than the only county left. However, we are going to have an enormous number of ministers to care for the other and those groups. I've only wondered if this will help to build confidence in the public's rights system because I think that in order to build a strong and good legal system and to increase the security we need to build confidence in the system, the public was confident that when something comes up, they could consult the police and be confident that the police might have a chance to investigate a case and complete it. Sadly, that is not the case today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u70	Madam President. I thank you so much for talking about this important matter. How unacceptable it is that there will be many years of waiting for justice to be executed! It is totally unacceptable that a study of sexual immorality takes months or years, often without any incident for months. It is totally unacceptable that the recipients are not included in the hearing of a hearing or that they have a defendant's position for months. Clearly, more funding, character, and training are needed for investigators and prosecution. There is a wide agreement at a council to invest in these matters. What's your chief plan? To regain the confidence of the victims, a minister makes a practical effort to make the right decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u71	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry and secretary for the answers. I think this is a very important discussion, and we need to keep an eye on the progress of these matters. It is totally unacceptable that there will be a penalties for how long an investigation has taken place. It's totally unacceptable, and we're not supposed to accept it at all. I would like to point out that at 149 C.E., I asked questions about the effect of increased funds to law enforcement on sexual crime. I've got an answer, which is on it. A 912, 490 - year - old case that showed overexcitedly how well these increased funds went into these research and how successful they were. The answer is also very clear how the police in the capital area changed their ways and just how different the work is. And I see it at this point that there's every reason for me to repeat this inquiry and see the results at least at this point there was a lot more success than we can do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of justice for the answers and the joy of hearing that he is all of his will. On the other hand, I may want to warn you not to start another trip with a diagnosis of status. We know what the situation is. The situation has been the same for years. It is true that there are others who go to the police now [a call at the Hall of Congress.] but it has been, but it doesn't change the big point that this has been the case for the past few years. And because it's the highest. A minister mentioned that there should be a general view of the situation, so it is, as we discussed earlier tonight, that there are waiting lists in prison cases as well. They're waiting for abduction. There is a lack of treatment options. The last prime minister of the government, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, began to promote grace because of the passing of judgment. The earlier judgment means that men who have been condemned to be imprisoned do not. There's an incredibly unhealthy message to the community at all that it is, and it's been like this for years. The reality is that there is nothing particularly complex about solving the problem. These institutions need to be carried out on hand. The police, the prosecution, the courts, and the Prison Department need to be met. I can promise you the highest. Minister of Justice because if he does, he'll get a hell of a way out of solving this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u73	A respectable president. I want to Þorbjörg you. Gunnlaugsdóttir For this discussion, I am able to accept the perplexing criticism she had here on the whole system. I covered it well in my talk to see what I am trying to do about it. However, it will not be avoided to mention the false information that took place in an immutable discussion on the part of the day. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. It is shocking to listen here for a talk that said that it would be to reduce the number of investigators and send them all to one county office. This is not a discussion, a respectable president, which will keep us going. They're trying to mislead people in a political discussion, such as they're known from this study, and that's an unfortunate, respectable president. There is good reason to discuss how some senators can behave in this regard. Do you need extra funding? Yeah, we've been getting more money. We're looking for a further capital because we realize these bottlenecks and I'm doing my job to win the trust we need on our important system. Actually, there's a lot of confidence in the police, and there's a lot of confidence in the system according to all measurements, but we have to do much better. This is primarily, as previously established, and was involved in the affairs of the prisoners before, human kindness. These are matters that cannot go on in this way for long periods of time. Of course, it is my duty as Minister to look back also to get as much of the tax given to us as possible. The country's law costs $21,000 million a year, 21,000 million. We may also need to improve in how we use our money and how we feel about it. [[The president calls.]] Emphasis is really good. The campaign we started in sex offenders is very successful and is now running full. [[The president calls.]] The number of employees - we're doing it. We're about to increase the number of employees, especially in this category. [[The president calls.]] It will appear later this year on the basis of the funds we are receiving.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u74	Madam President. Just now, the highest call. Minister of Justice after some sort, I don't know what it is that he was asking for, action, or discussion on the part of the World Council Committee on how to resist intractive discussions at the Senate Hall, and especially with one particular member who is not, in fact, in the hall, nor was it when they were put down. I want to go to the highest. The Minister of Justice, according to what is exactly what he feels is reasonable, is acting against the individual comments made by the Council of Ministers. Senator. I'm a little surprised at this statement from the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u75	A respectable president. This is not a question period, but I shall gladly explain only what I meant because I believe it is important. I mean, I've just reviewed all the plans we have, and the extra money we've been getting on the basis of it, and we're going to increase the number of employees. We are about to make better use of the officers scattered in various offices, with the possibility of putting them under one management of such a task group, and even a number of other mission groups, so that a national view remains open even though the police can be active in various countries, there is no need to be changed, so we have an overall view of all the legal groups at one place. These are the organizational changes we're considering to make better use of human beings and to make more coordinated and more efficient. Then my speech comes up here. A senator who claims that I am about to reduce the number of officers, just to the point of my speech, and that I'm going to move all of this to some one county official in the country. [[The president calls.]] I think there's good reason for us to be discussed here in this hall that we will stick to a perfunctory discussion, a dignified president. It is such talk that keeps us going. I'm willing to accept criticism and discussion and that people have different opinions than I do, but to put words in my mouth and tell lies, that's what I'm talking about. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u76	Madam President. We've seen a significant economic recession and a rising inflation recently, and in our gang members, it's important to protect our country's home from this inflation. Those who pay off insurance loans and rents are the most vulnerable in this situation. There must be a number of pitfalls to protect, and governments can do much. Governments can, for example, But I especially worry about the young people who are buying their first property. I don't think their debt level is that good. A minister describes and wants to encourage the government to assist the first buyers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u77	A respectable president. We are involved in cost raise in the economy here and now and the effects of rapid growth change on the payload of households. A report at Science, March 19th, quoted at the highest rate. Secretary of finance that the government was looking to specific measures for the busiest community groups to respond to rising prices. V.E.G. The minister spoke the same way today. She spoke of targeted measures directed to certain groups and to the highest degree. The minister of culture and trade has called for such measures and suggested that they may even be funded by whale tax on either the banking system or the marine export companies. But what really is happening? What are the real aspects of this government's survival? I thought maybe we finally got some answers. We've been asking for answers for weeks, two months, to find out what is on the farm, when it's coming out, whether it's over the head, if there's anything going on, if there's any action for the homes that are going to be the most intense because of the cost of the economy and because of rising interest levels? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But no, we haven't had any answers from the secretary of finance now, he'll have the chance to do that later, and hopefully something will come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u78	A respectable president. There are many things you can say with the highest power. Minister. I want to share with him worry about the bad state's position. We've talked about it here, repeatedly pointing out that the government funds had become insurmountable to Covid, and we have to deal with the debt status of a state fund, whether we like it or not. I'll agree with the highest. Minister on this matter. It causes a measure of concern to see the trends we are now facing, increasing inflation, home - to - house inflation, as we have known and received, even as we have seen. Sentencing from the Secret Bank and the Hauspair. What I'm going to reiterate here on our part, or at least on my part, is this manta that this is now the best in 30 years. It may be possible to take the years of shopping and apply them, just great. But we are not competing with ourselves within the country. We are competing with foreign countries, and when we compare ourselves and our growing points with our Icelanders in foreign homes, e.g. home in Europe, it's still that we're paying a lot of apartment prices here at home. [[The president calls.]] If we compare ourselves with the foreign countries and if the comparison is taken there, we will see that our growth levels are worse in comparison than they have been in a long time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u79	Madam President. I'd like to be concerned with the highest, too. Secretary of finance on state funds and debt status. Today's reality is that we're looking at an increasing inflation, we're looking at growth, they're growing. In this context, the Independence Party had one or two slogans during the last campaign, and one of the main terms was lower interest. I think people in that context listened and believed that we were talking about less growth for the future, that we weren't competing with the past, but that the goal was to create a competitive standard of living and that there were at least interest. Steady, that they were not about to go uphill and that the winner was not in the way things were decades ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u80	A respectable president. When we don't get divorced, we've got an emergency. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir mentioned them as the last thing people stop paying off. The point is, averages don't really work. The average person standing with one foot in cold water and the other in hot hot has very good effects. We are talking about people who are in trouble, who are really struggling with problems right now, and we need to come to their aid. I don't see that paying interest doesn't improve the state's position. And yet another: Yes, interest is lower than they have been, but they are overly high. The fact that rent hasn't gone up much is not true either. We have seen real examples of tens of thousands of contracts that have gone up in the last two years, so we have to face the reality of what it is. We are not asking for help that is in the top law, we worry about the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u81	Madam President. Here earlier, in Ukraine, we discussed the impact of the war on Iceland's food security, and I mentioned the big increases it causes and opportunities for the State to equal that effect. For decades economists have believed that the only alternative to inflation is to increase and decrease growth, a control device that often takes months to work, and still others to relax. But the government, especially in a small country like Iceland, is much more, and it is time to watch other factors to influence the economy; taxes, customs, reforms, and the various transfers between the groups that have enough and those who need more. For a small economy such as ours, it should be much easier to identify the controls and how they could affect the expansion and contraction of the economy. Let us stop being trapped in the 20th century for economics and the simpleness of the 20th century and take advantage of the technology and the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u82	A respectable president. There was much talk about the past, not the present, and much less the future. V.E.G. The secretary of finance says that measures cannot be addressed every time inflation exceeds targets. We see now the inflation numbers that haven't been seen in a decade. What kind of presentation is that? We can see that the lands around us that are cited here for such extreme inflation speak of the greatest crisis of life that has been observed since the 1960's. This is not in any other part of our discussion. OECD, the National Institute of Economic and Development, was publishing a report during the last one or two weeks, to the highest degree. A secretary of finance may have seen, which was just talking about the importance of being attacked in an environment of inflation by a special action, not a general operation, such as the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, in order to form in the form of a stimulusive plan for all to work. There have been too many general cases. That's where I agree. There are specific measures we are calling for, and there are no answers to that. I'd like to quote at the end only at the top. Prime Minister, who shares in the government at the highest level. Secretary of finance, this morning, she said that it was important for us to face these consequences by means of action directed against certain groups, not necessarily flat measures that were evenly distributed on all hands. We're talking about a general action that no one in this room is talking for but specific measures. So I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance in this second step: Are these measures at the highest level. The prime minister, both in the media and here in the Ponta IIs, is speaking in preparation for the Ministry of finance? Is the Ministry of Economics preparing for the highest level of action. Prime Minister is making a recommendation here in a pita?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u83	A respectable president. A government contract states that to meet Iceland's climate commitments, agriculture, and the recovery of wetlands is necessary. That's what I want to thank you for. Environment, energy, and climate minister for talking to me about questions about evaluations and the willingness to recover wetlands at one time. It is unmistakably true that much carbon is bound to a low - decayed plant residue in wetlands, which can result in greenhouse gas emissions, as the vegetation decays faster in dry land than wet. Let's not forget, though, that nature isn't standard, it doesn't stand in place. It varies from season to season, changes occur over the years, and thus nature sometimes restores wetlands, although a canal has ever been buried. In some places, nature has already solved the problem. She has wet the land, and elsewhere she is on her way. A lot of canals never changed anything because nature played both measuring and digging men at its time, leaving the land drying little or nothing in the process of execution. Information on emissions of greenhouse gases from the most advanced wetlands in Iceland is somewhat misleading and does not have detailed information on the size of contaminated wetlands. Organic material is so disagreeable, and some of the most progressive wetlands are causing a great deal of relief many years after it is committed while others do not. It also releases other nutrients in the soil, which, once again, can increase grass growth and thus increase the binding of substances in the natural cycle. This may lead to a lower exposure to the most advanced wetlands, which has another secondary effect on the carbon cycle. There's nothing simple in these. So there is much to do when a decision to recover wetlands is made. The target for recovery is therefore a national assessment and an assessment of the local situation. So I have presented quite a few critical written questions to the Minister on the assessment of the effects of recovery. These questions aim to learn how to evaluate whether a return to a specific area is likely to reduce carbon output and/or increase binding. It is also important that prior to launching this project to evaluate what is likely to be an impact on surrounding areas and construction. The roles, e.g., need to be clear. The team members of the license team procedure, who should be responsible for the possible secondary damage that could occur where a country that has been performed for many years is recovered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative for good and objective inquiries in this important matter. At the first question, on how to assess the effects of the recovery of wetlands, the answer is that the purpose of the recovery of wetlands is to restore the ecosystems' activities that have been affected by emissions to as much as possible. This activity is, for example, Storage of carbon, habitats of organisms, water supply, and water quality. For this, groundwater levels need to be increased up to the surface of the swamp, followed by delay or cessation of water flow through the area. Water level can be monitored by placing a water main. Although water levels have increased, recovery is not yet complete, so monitoring of the region is required every few years to examine the development of razor wounds and manpower after implementation, as well as the development of biodiversity such as vegetation. The gas and its flow measurements show that by increasing ground surface water to stop the major degradation of organic substances and carbon dioxide emissions, soil animals and microorganisms will be killed or eliminated from all biodegradable substances. Organic but not biodegradable accumulation occurs in healthy myocclusive systems. Therefore, it is enough to monitor the hydrostatic system and vegetation, linking the controls in monitoring areas and new recovery areas. It is strong that measurements in all areas and areas of recovery are not to be made for any reason. Land transplants focus on the restoration of areas and on the careful consideration of the year to detect the spread of water in the area at different times of the year. In general, it is the best time to work on the recovery of late-onset sites. At that time, all areas are dryer than usual, so heavy devices can easily be accessed and birds can be expected to be finished on July 15th. It is important to remember that land is drying out at this time, so there is a risk of being underestimated by the level of water in the region because it changes rapidly after the weather, e.g. after a large drop in the head. The older recovered areas of land healing seem to be well - known to all, despite some weather conditions. A comparison in 2017, which was relatively dry, and 2018, which was unusually remote in the southeast of the country, shows how limited it is to watch the area for one year before implementation. That's not enough. Then there is another question about the impact of the recovery of wetlands and some of the factors mentioned. Farming works according to the checklist on recovery sites available on the Agency website. It contains the components that are investigated for recovery and the factors mentioned here. The check list is somewhat thorough and includes assessments of soil types and depth of soil, quality of production, water availability, tilting of land, digrification, condent zones, area size, potential negative effects on adjacent areas and past mines. Then there is the third question as to which data should be provided in a rural application for the restoration of wetlands. It should first mention that implementation of wetlands is not likely to be possible although it is possible to do so. Similarly, landowners themselves are self-employers but receive strength, counseling, and maintenance of land healing. The land transplants provide the basis for granting a message to the rural administration and the application for implementation is an assessment of the community's need. The MAH is subject to the assessment of the unit at any time and is referred to in Article 3. Section 4. Regulation on implementation No. 72/2012. The data that the land transplant has provided by applications to rural society for implementation is the size of the area, the length of the canal, the area map, the description of projects, and the impact on surrounding areas or soil, if any. If rural society asks for detailed information, it is responded quickly and safely. Otherwise, refer to Level 7. Commission regulations for the implementation of the product are provided with the data to follow the implementation of the marketing authorisation application. The answer to the fourth question about the information related to local authorities because of the possible effects of recovery of wetlands is that construction is often limited to areas of the earth and no or negligible influence on neighbors. If you are affected by a person's adjacent soil, it is reasonable to inform and seek the position of one's partner. A joint control system may conclude that a planned implementation should be performed in the area near the neighbor before taking a position for the application procedure. The preparation of the recovery of wetlands should take into account Article 7. and 8th pars. The lakes that deal with a person's authority to provide water for his property, and so the local community should do so in its deduction and introductions. In answer to the fifth question of the information related to an workers' union, road roads, to the wetlands intended to recover, the answer to a question four is: A sixth question: If the recovery of wetlands results in loss of manpower, roads, or industry, who will be accountable? A. If there is a requirement for damage at any other source, it is reasonable to consider this responsibility to be carried out. These may generally be on the shoulders of landowners or land - healing workers, but the government has assigned the task of restoring wetlands in the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u85	Madam President. Yes, the world is changing. Many of our very great - grandfathers joined in what they called evolution, i.e. that wetlands were fulfilled and converted to the loin in the early part of the 20th century. For many farmers, this was a major development that resulted in a higher production of food for winter and thus the growing livestock. However, this development came at the expense of carbon binding in wetlands. At the same time, the development of heart rate has caused many of these areas that were converted from wetlands to farms to go uninhabited. It is vital that we work closely with farmers in the recovery of wetlands and thus ensure the future of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u86	A respectable president. If we are to achieve half the emissions by 2030, two things are most important: the recovery of wetlands and the interference of ecosystems. And it must be clear where that responsibility lies. She's at the highest. Minister here or field minister? Are we going to return to wetlands? Of the 18 million tons we unsolved, 9.3 million countries are breaking free. It must also be said how to assist landowners. Should it usually be done? Should the carbon tax mentioned in the government covenant be used? Is he also supposed to go for wetlands? Then, there is the need to stop vegetation erosion and to heal badly connected countries. overworked land. It contains some 4 million tons of the 18 that we release. I would like to point out that there is no mention of the government government. These two things: If we're going to talk about a successful climate effort in Iceland, we're going to have to recover wetlands, we're going to have an Ecosystem disorder, and then we're going to stop vegetation. There is no way to talk about any effort in climates unless these things are addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u87	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Environment, energy and climate minister for answers and members of the council. I hear that there has been a great deal of progress in the process of recovery in the past few months, and checks pointed out by the minister, and follow - ups are now in a clearer process than they were a few years ago. Similarly, there appears to be a role in rural society when asked for cover or license. I hear, though, that rural society is concerned that this is not clear enough, so there might be reasons to examine it further. Another thing I wanted to establish is that a research report published at the National Farming Institute of Iceland last week on the long - term loss of carbon in the most advanced agricultural land reveals complete new data on carbon emissions assessments and comparison between the most advanced and unexploited land. The report may largely conclude that we have much to learn about the hydrocarbons of our country, and we have expected, based on that conclusion, overestimated emissions from the most advanced wetlands, and that we do not really consider what is actually bound up in the deforestation of cultivated wetlands. But all of this needs to be examined. When wetlands were fulfilled in their time, there were many mistakes, and I think that it is very important not to be made a mistake in recovery, that machines will not be sent into every swamp - I'm not saying they're being made - but they'll be based on knowledge and science. Based on the opinion of professionals, standards and land use programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u88	A respectable president. Thanks again. The leader as well as the leader. Councilmen who made comments here. I think it's right for me to make last words for you. paritaprevir Líneik's Sævarsdóttir's attention, which I felt was a very important matter; that we should not make the same mistake again, though it is done with good intentions. My conclusion, after having been that short time in office, is that we should make an effort to do a very good research work before it is applied. In effect, it should be said that when we are making these big changes, when it comes to action in climates, where we have very ambitious goals and are going to do things very quickly, we must base it on the best possible knowledge. And naturally, we haven't had our eyes on this in the past decade. But it just means that we must never forget when we plan to make plans that they must build on the best information, and surely science is the foundation for it. Hv. A senator also referred specifically to this, and that was true of others. A senator, Gísli Rafn Ólafsson, is, of course, supposed to be talking to and dealing with those best acquainted with the country, whether it is farmers or people who know it for other reasons. Of course, this is a great challenge and a large task, and we are going to succeed, but let us not forget that we are going to do so by making our own decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u89	A respectable president. I think it's an urgent discussion. At last, others are worrying about this trend. We naturally see that the first steps of the government's administration during this terms have not been the best when it is under way. The cost over the period is about 2 billion, and this is especially because the number of government employees is increasing. But at the same time, I want the senator's heels. I wish I could. A senator would have been here during our last term when we were in Reunion, warning of the policy of government groups, the same government groups that are now, held the entire ultimatum, i.e. to stop everything called activity at health care centres as well as the work of university professionals, such as the Cancer Society and these independent members and institutions, who have been completely invaluablely supplemented and strengthened by the Icelandic Health Organization. I welcome this discussion and hope that we can join together for greater service now on the part of the government. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I'd like to agree with the highest. Ministers that it is of utmost importance that there will be a standard workforce for both the government and the private market and that we will need a new job market model. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u90	A respectable president. It's like the highest. There are no data to confirm that academics are fleeing their private sector on a large scale. There is really very little evidence to suggest that. Considering the number of public employees in proportion to the population, we can see that the number of public employees has as good as done in the past ten years. I don't share these concerns because public employees are somehow over-priced. If we just look at the comparison, which is compared to the latest autumn report by the tropostry Committee, which considers the regular pay of the full - time members of the collective body of pay organisations, and compared to them, all of which are considered to be the highest pay markets of the workers. Whether we look at BHM or BSRB, the pay is all but lower. So, yeah, I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u91	Madam President. My experience is at least The fact that a government salary is not competitive. I think the highest. The minister of finance met his head when he spoke of safety. I think that in the past two years at least many people have applied to the public sector for security. The digital revolution that we are going through requires that we increase the number of academic experts, both in public and in a general labour market. We need to create opportunities for these experts in a general labour market to obtain projects, not just out of the state's state, but throughout the world. Yes, we no longer live in a community where everything is confined to this small rock in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. We also need to remember that in many larger companies in the world, only a university education has ceased when it comes to finding the right experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers as well as for those who have spoken. The guards of the delirium border, on the other side of the city hall, were sitting on their feet tonight, but it's not new that we, old party sisters, agree, that's not new at all. V.E.G. A minister's response to the State is understandable, but it would be interesting to have the bigger picture of government developments. While the increase in academic education in the state may be partly explained by increasing education requirements and the increase in health - care professions, this does not account for the complaint of professional drivers. The obituaries also match what we hear from students, as well as the recent analysis of the National Association of Professionals, which shows that Icelanders are turning to a much greater extent for government jobs while the private sector is new to foreign workers. When I graduated from law school a little over a decade ago, law students raced to get to the living rooms and private companies. Today, public employment is highly desirable, as the pay of public employees has increased much more quickly in recent years than in the general market. I'll say the highest words. A minister that, of course, the general market should be responsible for these issues. So as I said before: As good or as better a salary, more job security and abbreviated week of work. The public is beginning to offer better than the private sector, and this simply doesn't work for some anymore. That, in my opinion, is a reason to worry about this trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u93	A respectable president. In the community of rapid changes, the colleges are totally basic institutions, and we're seeing things change. Some jobs disappear, evolution, and other types of jobs exist today, some of which will not exist after 10, 20, for 30 years. But the university plays a key role in these changes that we want to see, and they must be in society if we are simply going to keep up with competitive living conditions, making a community so that we want and can keep our young people here. We, like other members of Congress, traveled through the country during the district week and left. In the University of Akureyri, and I studied at the university after a university professor had pointed to a technical education that they set into their own direction. I want to agree with what it says, by permission of the President: ▪ In a world where there is too much information but lack of wisdom and knowledge to put it to proper use, the university will become a center. They are the support society trusts in understanding and finding solutions to the world's problems. I think thatEyjólfur a very good word for Ayolfóttor, as far as I'm concerned. However, there must be room for high school and opportunity for participation in the rapid changes we need. They need to be on our side and get a chance to join us. It is natural that it has been wonderful to observe the development of the University of Akureyri, which was established over 30 years ago, see how it is going from phase to phase, and build up and strengthen the basics, whether in textbooks, nurses, and we now see the police mine taken hold. There is an appeal on the part of the school, but also on the environment, the environment around Akureyri, the job life, and others are calling for the fact that technical education can be offered just to contribute to what the University of Akureyri has had a lot of expertise, how he has developed both in technology, in his telekinetics, but also in a flexible study that stresses the connection of the university with a center of knowledge that includes. active in the country. So, as soon as we say yes, we need to strengthen the University of Akureyri, and then we'll strengthen the settlements, we're building the net in all our society across the country. We need a strong business life, a powerful college, either north or south. Therefore, I would like to agree with what the University of Akureyri's policy says, that technology and increased emphasis will be offered on environmental and natural science by sustainable and mutual translocation of knowledge between the university and the community guided. This increased offer of study will appeal to a larger group of students, taking into account the need for employment around the school. [[The president calls.]] That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister whether it will exert itself on the prospect that the university can adopt a technical education that he is planning to pursue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u94	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is eager to pick this up here at the council, and it is very important that we discuss university education and any offer available anywhere in the country. With reference to question date. It is true that at the university the University of Akureyri does not have the recognition of a minister to offer a degree of technical education, and so, at this point, such a study cannot be offered at the university, not until the request for such recognition and then the office of Ministers. On the other hand, the school has access to training technology in the East in cooperation with the University of Reykjavík, who enjoys this recognition and might, if available, would bring such cooperation to Akureyri in a faster way, and there is something to be done, as is now available for computer science at the University of Akureyri, which is extremely successful. The cooperation of the University of Akureyri and the University of Reykjavík is exemplary. They've been successful in computer science in the north, and that's an example that could strengthen and improve the development of a variety of studies in the region, and we should take a closer look at it. However, if schools ask for the help of the Ministry to promote such studies, such as technical studies or other studies as demand and missing, as I have heard from the north myself, especially when considering progress in the community, much support of the local minister can be assumed. In general, I also want to say that I have high hopes that the school's vision will become reality and that I will do my part so that it can. As secretary of innovation, I also have a keen interest and will to further my research in technology in more lands than just the city of Reykjavík. This is a multidisciplinary study with a very clear link to innovation and technological development in the economy all that prepares students for the very important work of the future. At present, the University of Iceland and the University of Reykjavík are well - established, and they are in constant competition with engineering, including the U.S.A. magazines, as we need to increase the number of students in both of these articles. So a labour market company, and I hear it whether it's in the capital area or in the country, calls for people who are skilled at learning and working. For this reason, it is extremely important to think about the benefits of teaching in the general field of technology. It is as important in my opinion, and I have always been a special amateur of it, watching a certain flexibility for the university's internalisation so that those who fail to meet the formal intake criteria are invited to tire out a status test or to undergo a physical evaluation or a local level that seeks to find out if they have the preparation needed for this university study. It is no less common for people with experience in various aspects of this study and for those with experience in college, whether from electrical technology, from the energy sector, or from the construction sector. They also often have basics in industrial and industrial fields and are endeavoring to further their technical education. It is important to watch the experience and knowledge that these individuals bring into the study and not just on a white head. For this, I've been a spokesman for a long time, and I'll continue applying myself to it in the Ministry. Finally and thus said, I hope that my will is very clear, both as a minister of innovation and as minister of the university, in terms of advanced technical education in the country. Of course, one of the most important tools to complete is the college financing model that has been stopped for far too long and frozen. It's a tool for Ministers to get to that job and that there's the right motivation for the university, not just a lot of people like it has been. There has been much disagreement on the financing model that was active and has now been frozen. We simply need to have a very clear view of how the money is spent, where they are going to college, and how we can strengthen them and enhance their flexibility and potential, just as a dog does. A senator mentioned, so that they can have more space to offer a wide range of studies in many parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u95	A respectable president. Here we need to talk, technical studies at the University of Akureyri, which, like the highest. A minister entered it is a guide that, through the cooperation of the University of Reykjavík and the University of Akureyri, in business and rural areas in the East. It is important that they cooperate to speed up the development of technical studies. In the North and East, there is a high demand both for employment and for technical studies, as well as for good soil, where a proportion of the number of graduates from industry and working school are higher than anywhere else in the country. Furthermore, it is of great importance that there is a university education that appeals to people in the industry, where there is a higher proportion of men than women, and they really need a university education to link professional life in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u96	A respectable president. Thank you for putting this matter on the program tonight and the highest. Minister as well as clear and clear answers. I am strongly supportive that this technical study will work out. I've been watching the University of Akureyri since I was myself active at the University of Bifrost, another school that is specialized in telecommunications, and I've experienced in my own skin how important this is for career opportunities, for strength, and for moving ahead in that area. So I'm very pleased with these answers, believe that it is obvious to a new university minister and innovation to be specific in their support of the University of Akureyri in this regard. It'll be very good for society. It will be very good for the community as a whole, according to the emphasis it has made in the first few weeks and months of office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u97	A respectable president. I must say, it was refreshing finally to listen to a minister of this class who is clearly going to listen and do more than listen and follow in requests and requests to strengthen the university. I like it, and I really like it, and I think it's a good thing to hear that understanding and feel it here. I'd like to agree with the calculus. It is, with all due respect I intend to get to plough, both o' bein' to go into completing the calculus. There should be no problem for the development of the university to grow and thrive in the rhythms of a new era. The calculus needs to be updated to the rhythms of a new era. Realisticity - what I find truly amazing about technology is that we're getting so different groups into college, especially professional experiences and then we have to have the door open. Actually, it is my opinion, and it has been a long time, because a minister spoke of the white goats, that whether men or women are coming out of trade, schooling, or book school, they should be white. The same should apply to everyone and all into the university. So I found it refreshing to hear from the highest. Minister. I'd like to encourage her, although this formality has not come with the request, it is clear, however, that the University of Akureyri wants to establish technical studies. At the same time, we welcome all cooperation, to make up the University of Reykjavík and the University of Akureyri, which is quite wonderful to see how evolution has developed and has been a precious addition into society and into their professional life, how they have worked together. But I would like to encourage a minister to take the step because this is clear: the University of Akureyri wants to start technical studies. We should simply say: " Yes, we will support him to do so. '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-28.u98	A respectable president. I cannot help but rejoice over this clear course of the University of Akureyri because it is not the role of a minister of education for each part of the school's education but just to seek to support them, to pay the way, to see where to increase flexibility. The teamwork of the university, as it was mentioned merely, that developing such an incentive to do so to a greater extent throughout the country, will promote both the quality and the volunteer at the university level for students. In particular, about technology there is a great demand for such study and such knowledge, and here we are discussed with the needs of the economy for knowledge and education. That is, in fact, what we are discussing here under this request, which is limited to one study of one school, the need for employment life's knowledge and education, which we may not have set out well enough, and what does this mean. It does not mean following the job life and molding the school accordingly. Rather, it is about moving forward and realizing what the demand is, because it is for the good of our communities. It is good for our communities to find out where the need is, where the interest is, and how we can expand our study in these areas. It must be the job of a university minister to listen and find and manage and take it along for the work the university financing model. Thank you for your optimism from what happened. A senator and a captain about finishing this case. It's one of my priorities in this department, but I'm sure it's a case that will still take some time.
