ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u1	A respectable president. It's always the same. There's never enough work to be done, just like what's happened. In fact, in the middle of the pandemic, a senator said that there would be 100 billion more loans to do enough. How does it resist today? [[Up front.]] We didn't. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] We stood up for our plans, and we updated them according to our individual positions and the contribution of the State Fund is far better than had been foretold at that time. In the end, it's just a matter of living itself, and in this financial program it is presented, for example. With regard to the housing market, which is of utmost importance to people. Let me, for example. The tables should be pointed out to the level of growth as a shareholder and have declined, not just for those in the top law, as it were. A senator has been talking in connection with the review of property savings, but in all income matters. In recent years, housing has been improved, not just better, but much better, year after year. It's the results we're talking about defending. So now we are in a situation where the standard of living has improved year after year. I have to tell you that the Lab's biography has exceeded my expectations for the situation last year, and we still hear the same thing. And I did not find the answer to the question, " How much angle, more than 120 billion angles, is why. ' A senator talking about? As far as I can hear, tens of billions of people are missing every case, and that's the way of increasing the business of state, government, money, very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u2	A respectable president. So I'm just gonna answer a question straight. The secretary of finance we could, e.g. The current situation is slower, and it is not planned to be at the minimum of the budget of the income budget during the past 20 to 30 years. That would be, for example. can be started there. You could start by looking at the commercial institutions that are not mentioned in this financial program, even though there is a need to increase possible consumer taxes, which are the least tax on people's hands. There's no mention of resource taxes, although we've got 5 billion out of fishing fees and we know that the resources of this resource are equal to 30 to 670 million. K. There is no mention of capital taxes, no property taxes, even though there is talk about it all over the world. There are many things you can do. But I realize completely that it's not politics. The minister of finance, and that's why it's not surprising to me. What I'm trying to pronounce here is, is it politics of this government? You see, that's what I'm not sure of. Because these answers and questions are just not surprising to me in view of who is in the Ministry of finance. However, my problems in the United States and ours are growing up repeatedly and praising things, talking about growth. I was just quoting right here in the words of the highest. The minister of wood said that he had recommended a significant increase in housing budget, and it is not coming. Then you can just not say that. People have to come to the door like they're dressed. Why is the debt of the state's debt better than it was supposed to be? This is because money policy was severely used. What happened next? $450 billion. increase in debt. With whom? For our young people, who took on their penalties directly rather than a government fund did so. And now these people are being sacrificed for inflation and growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his fine speech. All I want to do is talk about the social stability and optimal conversation that lie ahead of us. It has now been very clear from the National Association of Iceland that the government's support of the security and the relocation systems of paymen will determine the outcome of the labor movement's requirements in the dress interview. This, of course, is a close - cut way to reduce tension and pay pressure to further the transfer systems, e.g. to respond in some way in order to improve the availability of affordable housing and to improve our child - welfare system, perhaps the growth system today, the pressure and growth. For housing supplies, this is the case in Reykjavík e.g. In cooperation with the city, under the direction of peers, troubled tenants have done an amazingly important work. The same is true of other societies in the country, especially those under socialism classes. You see, who's in charge is important. It is a little surprising in this financial program that we see that the building into the general apartment system should be joined together. They should not be increased despite the current Ministers, at least in words set out an understanding of the importance of increasing the supply of affordable prices. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see how he feels about this in view of the discussion that lies ahead. What does this mean for remuneration?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u4	President. Homing and planning matters are about to take place. It's about to lower a specific part of the stock process, not too much, some small thing. But at the same time, we face the fact that the analysis of the House and Engineers Institute tells us that there's a thousand more apartments missing in a building. Considering that the establishment of the state's budget is 18% of the construction costs, just a small calculus in it, that's about Seven billion. It would be good if the state would just come and say, "Hey, we're going to be involved in the building of all these one thousand apartments. It's government policy. We are going to achieve that goal. We're just gonna step in and just join in. There are now governments that control government policy, aren't they? Why are the government groups moving to the workforce? Of course, the labour market comes with certain ideas, which are always negotiations in collective agreements. But I would estimate that the initiative to such a big deal would definitely be for the government class. They take the power to manage the General Assembly, even the European Commission, and then I would like to make them claim to solve one of the underlying problems in the community, and that is their housing problem. They simply say: " If anything happens, we will meet it. ' But it's not a policy, and it's not to have a vision of what it means to the economic, debt status and survival of the state which is something that affects the key sizes in our community, just the national terms of inflation, etc. Well, we'd like, for example. can you see a decrease in in in inflation caused by government policy to meet the building of apartments? That would be interesting to see.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u5	Madam President. The contraction, when it comes to laying up the stocks, is not a smart one. We're talking about 2 billion. As they grow, they get together about 2 billion years from now on. The government should be entering in a much more powerful way when it comes to increasing the supply of housing, housing and living quarters, etc., both in Reykjavík and in other rural areas. It is of interest that the Minister of wood and head of the Agency said here in a special discussion a few weeks ago: ▪ The Minister here puts much emphasis on building social housing all over the country and has put in the financial program for 2023◯2027 on a significant increase in funds to increase the development of apartments by means of public housing. Then there's a financial programme where expenses actually go a little bit together. It's so ironic. The advance team was the winner of the last election, a lot of social investments, investing in people, etc., but it's like the highest level. A minister of finance who holds the purses is somehow playing with the humiliating Minister of the forwarding Party. Similarly, when it comes to education, when it comes to culture, we see a tremendous payment when it comes to health care. These are theize groups of the Annexe Party. I don't know if they'll be watching or not really understanding the pills we're talking about here. They talk here as if there's an overexcited vision and a well-being government in power, but then this is what we see in our Excel documents, money policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u6	President. I was referring to the founding proposals over the course of this strategy. Certainly they have been reduced, e.g. of 2016 about 12 billion. It is 12 billion from 2016/2022 in accordance with the continuation of this schedule. To meet the one thousand apartments that need to be built each year, it would take 7 billion, less than 2016. It's something. Directors and Ministers complained that they had not been able to get all the institutions out. Part of the problem there is the lack of organization, such as the government. ..to put in financial plans. What do the societies now expect? 8.7 billion in production because that's what it says right there. In that way, they need to plan for building up and expect to be able to attend. Is the government going to add something later? If so, then it takes time for your communities to plan for an additional one. How important it is that when a new government presents itself with a new government covenant, it puts it in a financial program, its first financial plan. The policy of this government will be this, cost it and achieve this result. But the policy is not costing anything because the government is not going to do anything. It will succeed only if others succeed. It simply throws it over to the communities, what they can build, or the work market, what they can negotiate. That is the policy of this government under this financial program. It's a dead end. It's completely aimless. It doesn't mean a plan, it doesn't mean an organization, and it's just chaos.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u7	President. Hv. A senator here says that we can look to the future with confidence. I don't really understand what's going on. This is the case with the financial plans we have here in front of us, as we look to several key issues, a foundation in our community. Let's just use the health system, such as we could get our housing system too: We have just received a report that says that if we do exactly what the financial programme says, a 2% rise every year, it will have serious health consequences, resulting in an increase of 9 billion costs beyond what would be used to counter measures. They are not part of this financial program. That's perfectly clear. Most surprising, though, is the fact that nothing new is presented in the report. It certainly has a more accurate analysis, but it is exactly what the health - care providers have been trying to chew us on a budget year after year, always the same thing, nothing surprises us. Based on the financial agenda as we have it in front of us today, how can we look to the future with confidence and also from the report we have under our control where we are told that it is not true? Does this mean, then, that the government will respond in some way? Will it change this financial program, or will it have to wait another year?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We disagree, and there's nothing new. We too often agree, it's all happened. Yes, I believe this is a reason for looking bright ahead, though I don't think it's a reason for pessimism. We're getting out of a epidemic and we're dealing with an uncertain situation that we have to face all the time, it's still an uncertain situation, and we have to play something with the way the whole world has to do. We've been discussing these matters, like why. A senator knows, on the budget board. Among other things, we have made this medical report primarily about the Land Hospital; health - care system is not just the Landsspike, though it is, of course, the grieving part of it. It also came out, and it may be said that the ministry's interpretation of what it says is first and last of all that the design problem is that we're dealing with not only with but also with the whole world, the problem we're here to deal with. We can do much to fix things, and that was also true at the meeting. I'm counting on it. A senator has not forgotten that the funds that were used by museum soldiers were specifically turned aside. There are huge amounts of money inside that I think we would agree that we want to make a state around and that it is used directly in investments or on business instead of dealing with the hospitals, as we are told. The hospital is making a profit, so let's not forget it, that's expected. This was shown in our visit to the Land Hospital. Let's not forget it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u9	President. Yeah, I don't know where to start. There's the so-called profits of the hospital, transfer from reserves and stuff, something that was actually not meant for the hospital to begin with, except for the cost of Covid, was just an transfer from museums, etc. To cover the waist, that the hospital might be within this agreement. Hv. A senator named the museum team, which is part of the problem here at the council. We're not supposed to agree with budgets on any kind of Minister's decision on how to handle budgets. Then we can just say: This financial bill, this financial plan, is up to 1,200 billion, you do what you want with them. It just doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u10	A respectable president. No, that's exactly what I was saying. We know that, and we've talked about it. This may be part of what we need to consider when it comes to public financial law, these museums that are covered with huge sums. Perhaps we would like to benefit more fully from the way they are protected and whether they have a head or not. That's one of the things we need to talk about, the old drawer minister, as it was called, because that's to some extent what it is, these museums. I will not belittle the need to continue funding our health care. I was just quoting what came out at a meeting we all attended at the hospital, where those words were held. It is also, as noted, that this DRG system is being used to change the service and that it is expected to improve. There are a lot under which we have to examine, telecommunications, and other things that the hospital has said, and hospitals so that they can do much better. [[The president calls.]] But we certainly need to examine this, and now it's a financial committee, not the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. Chairman of the budget board for the story. I wanted to say whether all of this is impossible or fantastic, that in my mind it might be more likely to turn to whether we are talking about progress or just a systematic progress. There were promises in the fall, and I wondered if there must be no frustration. The chairman of a legal committee to see to it what it is like to do in the premises now. It is a broken promise, and in no way has it been said repeatedly. But I also wanted to ask, because the chairman of the budget committee discussed the situation outside the capital area, transportation, and the like, how she feels about it, in this program, the diminishing items that take place during this period. Government investment plans peaked for one year and then declines. There are just so many things here that are nothing, nothing and that are nothing but systematic progress. It would raise questions as to whether a discussion on health care, a big promotion in housing, a major transportation campaign may have been only miscommunications and overemphasis in the past. Can she agree with me that we'd all wanted to see, in view of the fact that we're now selling the banks and getting all this money that we lost right here after a crash and that we had to cut down, a real building here in the next few years, and not just this account as it shows up from the Ministry of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u12	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If we start with transportation, we have, like, what. A senator may know, perhaps critical that we are always talking about conflict, and we took an investment campaign and, unfortunately, the money didn't go out and there's something inside that we have to fix. We've had some, even. The road and the other parties, to discuss it with us, i.e. That we're ready. The same may be true of the housing market, of being ready to go whether or not there are broken weights in the past. Then I'm not criticizing Reykjavíkurburg because I think it was best for the local community in the capital area. But that does not change the need for it to be done. The same is true in my district, but the local community needs to be more ready to accept the call when it comes to dealing with the problems they face. With regard to the housing system, it was assumed that, when we set off for the 2015 collective agreements, we would attack on a certain number, such as the whale. A candidate for the expected man, in the structure of social rent and contributions, has been higher than expected at that time, despite all that. Like what? A senator also knows that, unfortunately, all these founding provisions have not yet been accomplished, and there are many factors under it. But first and foremost, according to the information I have, including... From ASI, it's because there's no land to build on. I don't think it's in the state to react when we realize that we can get all this money to work, and as we know, the plan is really examined every year, and we just have to deal with it if we see that this happens like we do. A senator knows a shared organization, and other factors are very long in history. [[The president calls.]] One of the things that have been tried to fix here now is to change this arrangement and lighten the rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. Chairman of the budget board for the answer. I wonder about this position that has come up in a housing market, that people think they can't get it out -- there's another sound coming up to form in the largest country society in the country, Reykjavík, who is going to double the amount of property in the next elected period - if the government could not be able to support at least. to others who need this funding, to make up the growth system more. It's a little difficult when you're always talking about the problem just at the forward gate, but then you can't fix the bid side and while others wait. In the end, I wanted to ask the chairman of the budget board what she thinks about the statement in a financial programme that they should use taxes in some way in the next few years, which are the faintest taxes that can be imposed and the fact that there is no mention of resource taxes, taxes on capital gains, or property taxes in this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u14	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Of course, there are many things to think about, and I can totally agree that we may need to reevaluate the growth factor, and I think we need to consider now in view of the situation if inflation and other such things take place, as we may be facing now. If there is something that will become a long - term situation, we may need to consider. Of course, when it comes to the consumer taxes, it's like cot. A senator knows, primarily on the tax issues in this financial program, that is, because of changes in driving vehicles, and fortunately, we have an increase in the number of electrical vehicles. That's what I think is the main thing about this, that it's gonna happen sooner than later. For other consumer taxes directly, as we have been doing about the merit tax, which is the natural largest consumer tax, I don't think we should raise it, so it's said. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u15	A respectable president. There are familiar voice points we hear here today. The minister of finance painted the government up earlier, like a bit less-adjusted people who just wanted to increase their expenses a lot more, no matter what. Death and demon, says the chairman of the budget board, is our message here. But here, the context of things is very important. First, we study this financial program in the light of the Government Treaty and the promises made there, promises made by the classes also in their campaign of social investment, etc. Second, I would like to present a fact on page 18. 36 in financial planning: The public consumption will increase annually by an average of 1% in the period. It is small in historical comparison, but there has been an average increase of 2% per year in the 21st century. ◯ We are talking about during this period of historic spending. So it is being said to reduce the extent of the public service and the extent of the welfare system in the economy. It's just a fact. They always say, "We've had so much extra expenses in recent years. " And this is now taking the first dozen pages of the program, describing how the government has raised a lot of expenses in recent years. But this increase will not change for the child who is on the wait list today and next year and during the next year and the nurse who has to run faster and faster because of the money policy being announced in this schedule for the next few years. [[The president calls.]] So I must ask. Chairman of the budget board: Is she proud of the resolution shown in these large categories? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is she proud of this financial and financial agenda?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u16	Madam President. It's interesting to hear what you're talking about. A senator here speaks of familiar speech points. I don't know exactly what he's referring to. I just want to point out a group 24.1 in this financial program, where that seminar party has been a significant subject today. Yet, there is still much to add to the mental - health teams, including those of the United States. psychiatric teams of prisoners and mental health teams for people with neurological disorders. They're also adding a team for adults with ADHD. Children's mental health centre is being developed at the health care of the capital area, where children are to be served fully. There's been a continuing support for the service I've felt to be spoken quite well down, that there's just chaos, there's nothing going on and there's no continuation. You see, there are a lot of other things being done and supporting the system, continued payoffs, etc. which is being put in. So I disagree with the approach. The senator says everything's at risk. And, yes, I used the words "death " and" demon " because I think it's bad. At least the senator is not speaking religion into people, he is saying that nothing is happening here and what lies ahead is going to suck. I don't completely agree with that approach. I think there's a lot of good things here that will support the continued development of social infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u17	A respectable president. I'm a left man, and I'm shocked when a group that teaches by the left and leads the government puts out a financial plan that makes it very clear that the scale of the economy is not fully reduced and there are no special promises of the increased equation on the income side, none of that. On the contrary, the value of consumer taxes is said to increase in the period of resuscitative taxation. So yes, death and demon, let's just say it. But no matter what particular situation. The chairman of the budget board shows, does not change the large picture I spoke about earlier, and it is about the fact that the overall growth of the combination during this period will be to a historical minimum, less than the norm in this century. Finally, I would like to ask: "On page 19. 111 are spoken of as selling estates and selling property outside of Iceland banks, selling more estates later during the election season. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What possessions do the government intend to sell? Will this be done in the same way as with Iceland Bank, on the watch for the vote?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u18	A respectable president. I'm also a left man, just so they say, if we're competing for it, I'd like to keep it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u19	Let's go to the race.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u20	And because of what? In answer to the sale of state property, I'd like to say that we've discussed it very closely on a financial committee to review the sales of Iceland Bank that took place here during the days and will call for further answers. It has also been observed in the highest range. If so, prime minister that if we have to call for it, we need to change the law. It is not in itself on the agenda of this government to sell more assets, at least not any big estate, so to speak. But I don't. According to a senator, the budget of each year contains a huge number of assets authorized by government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u21	Madam President. We now see the rise in in inflation in this country for at least one month. and so it is clear that the basis for financial programmes for the period 203/2027 is already smiling, both salary and prices candidates. The debt of the government has grown dramatically during the Korean era. The commitments of the households as well. The Kingdom budget is now over 80 billion a year, and it has never been higher. The financial program describes the cessation of debt collection as a foreground on government policy. We do not see clear evidence of this in this financial program or the financial policy that was recently adopted. In fact, the collection will continue for the terms of this government and will be at their table the next to work. It is to remind you that prior to the fall of a airline, major unemployment, and less economic growth, government funds were already in irons. The government then chose to put his head in the sand and was less equipped for the trauma that later came. In this schedule, income is expected to grow far beyond expenses. In many areas, it is being summed up that is a negative one. It is not apparent that there is no action in the water to cope with increasing inflation that is having a significant negative impact on the home of the country, many of which are heavily in debt, and who have to deal with the increased financial burden of loans and rising food and fuel prices. This is especially true of young families who rely on countless loans when growth was the lowest but now have a payment on the mortgage that has increased by tens of thousands a month without any change in their salary. Therefore, it is ironic to read about it in the media, quote financial ministers, that the state - to - land outlook was improved, and the interests of the households were never better. At the same time, you read that in this century, inflation has not been more pronounced. Then, a respectable president, is suggested in a financial program, to cut down foundation contributions to the building of ten - dollar - dollar - size sprays for low - income companies of about 2 billion. The procedure is incomprehensible, since there is a need to increase the provision of housing for the income group. This is the way that has helped to the forward gate, which is necessary when the demand is as high as you can see. This is the worst experience for those who may be remembered. There is also a great need for a global nursing home to be built and no financial support has been made for future requests. In this regard, there is a nursing home at the Cape and in the town of Smokejanes, which has not been started despite the signing of a contract between the state and the local community at the beginning of 2019 C.E. Requesting the construction of two nursing homes in the capital area, the seasons in Reykjavík up to 200 spaces, and the Sunnums in Kopavogi up to 50 compartments, are on the table. Neither of these projects became part of a financial program and no investment warrants for nursing homes are expected after 2024, which is, of course, not acceptable in view of the available need. The nation will not stop aging in the next two years. Land hospital and nursing facilities need to be relieved, but more than that, basic services, health care, will be promoted. It is a national financial investment. The 2022 budget included the initiative of a government opposition to 250 million in subsidies of psychological services. This has not yet been accomplished, and it is not to be expected in a financial programme despite the approval of the psychological services approved by a part of the insurance system at the World Council 2020. However, the contribution to mental health is expected to increase by 500 million. K. every year, and 100 million each year thereafter. I have serious doubts about it, a respectable president, that this is enough to accommodate the more serious state of mental health, especially during a pandemic. A respectable president. The GDP is already one of the largest budgets in the state's budget, and it would be better used to make up for bad economic management, which is marked by further collections, expansion measures, and the negative total growth of the state budget over a financial period. A financial plan allows interest expenditure and pension commitment to increase by less than 13 billion and from 100.8 to 15.7 billion. However, as a result of today's disloyal situation, there is a risk that interest will increase. Then I'd like to mention the situation of the Icelandic rural society, many of which were badly affected by the Covid epidemic. On the other hand, the workforce strategy that was attacked helped prevent a serious crash, including major strokes, from occurring. in the town of Smokejanes, who had to deal with 25% unemployment. On the other hand, there is a debate between the state and the rural community and there is no way to provide the end. In recent years, rural society has taken over costly business factors, with a small amount of money being supplied. Society has changed, and the need for service has increased, and it has now come to believe that rural society has developed up to 9 billion because of a group of disabled people who have not been improved, even though growing funds have been made available through the SPC. These contributions, however, need to be increased. It's all about priorities. There is a great need for investment in rural development. The gap between maternity and nursery school has not yet been completed. Yet, recently a prime minister mentioned the matter of a free prenup. It costs money and how this will not be financed. A large population growth makes building solid infrastructures in many areas, and this makes the situation of many rural society very difficult. Maintenance and infrastructure have been cut down and it will be responsible for the rural population in the coming years. Because of these changed circumstances, it is necessary to review income exchanges between the state and rural society so that the rural communities can carry out their duties permanently. One of the reasons for this financial agenda is that a responsible collective agreement will be made, as this program puts it. However, the situation is that prices will not help a labour agreement. At that time, labor unions believe that the law of biographies has not been fully completed, including When it comes to housing. However, in a budget it is expected that pay will not increase more than an index of 1561.5%. Almost all agreements will be available this year or at the beginning of the next year, and the labour market does not want to take the steps proposed by the secretary of finance. As a matter of fact, the secretary of finance claims that the interests of the households were never better, but it does not require an experienced mathematician to find that the advantage of the most lucrative groups has deteriorated with the current high prices of change, along with the more substantial growth changes. Then, on March 22, the U.S. Bank Office sold a 22% share in Iceland Bank and obtained more than 52.6 billion without considering how it was being conducted, which truly needs to be discussed. Is it proper to overemphasize the need for these funds to be used for payment on debt or for interest in reinvestment? A team called the General Backup Fund and the specific means of making arrangements will draw attention to it. This team included 21.6 billion in 2020, and the budget for 2022 accounts for 35.3 billion. In a new financial program, however, this team is greatly increased and will reach 67.2 billion in 2027. One must ask why a minister has the same amount of money available without consulting the council. What determines that? It can be understood that a number of funds are for expenses due to unforeseen occurrences. What, though, is the cost of sacrifice when the investment in wood is as high as the State's interest costs? Is this the right setting of priorities at this point? Is there not enough money that a minister can take care of for himself? A respectable president. Is there a basis for this budget? Everything's fake, isn't it? The minister of education and child - care matters noted recently that there should be no reading too much of this when asked why there was no new national stadium in a financial program. The Minister of wood also said that there is nothing to be said about it since there is an election coming. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. Governments are to put financial programs, fragmentation of financial policy goals, and coverage of how it will be achieved. We need to be confident that what is right here is reflecting the intentions of the governments. [[The president calls.]] It's not just some document, it's a plan on which government administration is based. [[The president calls.]] It is one thing that I disagree with the priorities presented here, but another is that the ministers are. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we read too much into this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u22	I want less of it. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking. This enables the Senate work to make it easier and insurmountable. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this fine speech. Because of what? A senator was now a labor leader for a long time, but I would like to consider just what message is being sent to the labour market party. As I mentioned before, the ASI has put housing and transfer systems first, saying that these are the factors that will lead to the decision of the organization's claim in the upcoming dress interview. There is now a financial program with complete resolution in these topics, both in the presence of family support, when it is time for e.g. growth reforms and in general housing support. Like what? The senator's speech was doing well, the state's authority is actually just applying itself to reduce the size of housing support and the growth of housing at an manageable price during this terms. What kind of message is this to the labour market party? Does this not mean, then, that labor movements need much more and more pay? How will this affect inflation and economic stability? What does that mean? Isn't this a fearful, reckless document that the government has presented here? It would be interesting to have a point of view. Senator on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u24	A respectable president. Yes, I know this scene quite well after working on it for over 20 years. Of course, this makes sense, and all people should see that the prerequisite for the initiating of a collective agreement is the presence of social stability. The government covenant speaks of economic and social stability. But we certainly do not see that there is some social stability when inflation occurs, inflation takes place, and in which people have trouble getting a roof over their heads. Of course, this is the case, making labor movements have to set up pay requirements, remuneration requirements that are considerably higher than expected inflation, since otherwise there is not a bonus. It just makes eye contact. There's been talk of losing weights. There's always a lot of talk about losing weights. Smokeynestown is e.g. We now discuss how they come and start building in the city of Rhivines, and many rural communities are doing the same. So there is no problem with sharing a building or an apartment building for the low income, that's the least of it. It's just bullshit to me and how it's getting so close. I think if we are going to achieve a solidarity of some economic stability, this social stability must be in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u25	A respectable president. I'll just take my whole mind off with a bang. A senator of all of this. Recently, Mayor Dagur Eggertsson Elegtsson announced that the city was going to double its property supply during the coming election period. This city is doing its part, but the government and the government funds are clearly planning to pull their feet according to the financial program we are discussing here today. It's too pathetic. And when the labor movement responds to this, the financial and financial policy of the financial programme will respond to the most extreme demands of pay, the irresponsible labor movement will not be blamed. Then it will only be the government's fault. Let's get this straight. I'd like to recall a statement again, the highest. Industrial Minister, with permission of the President: The minister is here given a high priority on the development of social housing across the country and has submitted proposals for financial support in the years 20233/42/2027 of a significant increase in funds to increase the development of apartments by public housing... in 1996. In addition, the secretary of finance suggests a financial program where housing support is expected to be reduced, as if to humiliate him. What's that supposed to mean? You don't mean there's anything on these people? Why do they say one thing in the media, and then do everything else in the government and here at the council and with the members of Congress presented? Is it too much to believe that they will fulfill the promises made in a government covenant and will no longer be popular?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, it kind of looks like this. I'm sending a request to the highest level. Appreciating this exactly, in terms of growth improvements, but the highest. A minister just wanted to put it down and said that there were other options being worked on. You can't see them. Sources were very important, with most of the welfare issues that have been achieved through collective agreements, and this is one of them. They are very important for the poor in income to get safe shelter over their heads, which is only vital, and one of the security factors that people need to live on. I can't figure it out, are you just showing your union buddy? Somehow I experience it so that the labor movement should feel no control. But this is something that makes one feel special when we have seen that such measures, which have even been preserved. being built, serving purpose. People have been very happy and have taken refuge, and there is nothing to be thrown out of, even if they make a small amount of money, they just go to market rent. So people have come to a long - term safe haven, and that is what has been lacking in the Icelandic tenet. This may be a tip for a tenet that can be effective and predictable. I agree, I don't see the Ministers following what they're saying on the topic contract and on holiday and cocky days.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u27	Madam President. This is where I pick up my previous discussions on how to smell financial plans 2023How 22027 to approach the discussion from where we're coming from and where we're headed. We are well aware that in a short time, tragedy, external influences, and changes can change strong, high - looking outlooks into uncertainty and call for response. We also know that as the years of life improve, our situation may be improved again, so it is often fitting that, as they say, the weather will quickly come. It might well be framed by contributions and discussions about financial plans to see that there are various forces in our environment that we do not necessarily have control over that can have a powerful effect. We will launch a contingency therapy program that is the first one proposed by this government, a government that has led and is responsible for controlling the nation's vessel, as we have at times put it in the past few years, a government that was renewed in the fall. In my mind, a financial agenda must first create a financial framework that enables us to see where we are heading, to set the national way best at any given time, that of the important things that the public holds and cares for, whether in the health, welfare, education, or construction, or other projects that we meet together, are in good hands, and are well - cared for. It is one of the major changes after we began using the financial program that the long - term public budget for government budgets has created the various projects and institutions of the government to be more aware of the long - term management of their activities. I think that since 2015 the law that we often call on the new laws on public finance has given us the very strength to look for longer in planning and emphasis that we can place on government management. As a general rule on this synonym, I could say, and maybe I'll say as I always say on the financial agenda that a great ambition and a great responsibility has been set in motion. But as often as it has been, I must say, a respectable president now. The important thing is that we keep matters in such a way that we rebuild faith and the basis for opportunity to arise and that we reflect primarily our emphasis, whether in government or in other activities, that we believe that we will build ourselves quickly, that we can again expand the national cake and increase national production. Not so many months ago, a pandemic arose here. Maybe he surprised us. We may have thought that such events heard the story, that this could not happen in our society, that we had the knowledge and ability to cope with it, but thus the world, the epidemic struck us with full weight, with the related consequences for our economic situation. They had to respond. Government funds were used vigorously to protect the households' economy and to protect the commercial resources through the epidemic. We could because the government funds were in a strong position. A significant reduction in the income of the state's funds was in this crisis due to the reduction in the activity and direct action to support the state's funds in a significant exchange. We were able to do this, and this made us confident that we would quickly straighten out the cow again. It will also be measured. in that, in one terms of the financial program that we now address, there are some forecasts of a very positive one, e.g. I'm going down with unemployment. The peak in January 2021 was 11.6%, but has declined rapidly and is now about 5%, and the requirement for financial management is that unemployment be about 4%. During the second year of the pandemic, the greatest economic initiatives were based on the state's strong position and yielded unambiguous results. More and more, the land production is now becoming more rapid since projections were made on budgets for the current year. According to financial programmes, similar revenues did not occur in rural areas due to government funds. No matter what we feel about the division of state and rural society, all of us can agree that there is some need to be discussed and reviewed in some way, it's less infringement in our rural society than in the state through this crisis. With this, a respectable president, I'm not saying that everything is all right, not at all. That conversation has to go on, and we've also had our finger in the pulse of that conversation on the budget committee and we'll continue to do it. The government's position of debt was not a barrier to the battle against the economic consequences of a pandemic. There was room for an increase in debt. The society stood firm on the foundation of responsible economic management the years preceding. Now it is important to lay down and trust the foundation again. In 2026, the objective of the government aims to draw ever closer and to stop debt collections so that the foundation will be retrusted to cope with unexpected events to the future. I want, for example. It reminds us that sales in Iceland are a big part of this, not the least of them. By releasing government property, loans are reduced, and interest payments are saved for a long time. Already, property items have been sold for some 108 billion dollars. It is estimated that less money costs cost billions of dollars on interest costs used to support the government's investment plans than the government's investments prepare for future economic growth and support for the application of a better lifestyle. President. I'm making this up particularly because investment plans now published in this financial program are turning on research and innovation, meaning more than 25 billion dollars. will be spent in the coming years, and during the planned period, there will be an increase of about 30 billion in 2027. There is reason to mention this here, for in my mind our goal is to increase the support our community provides. I mentioned earlier, a respectable president, that we have to look at where we came from too. That means, for example. that in 2020, income based on effort to promote innovation and development was equivalent to 2.5% of land production. Since the start of Iceland's Haggis'statement, Iceland has moved up to 17th of the 17th in terms of innovation and has increased from 23rd place in four years. Exports based on intelligent fields are now about 10% of our export. They have doubled since 2014 to about 50% since 2018. This financial program continues to do so. It is important that we increase the support of society. It is important that we consider how we increase our wealth and how we are going to improve our standard of living. According to this, it is also important to continue developing our traditional occupations and to ensure innovation and research within the old, growing sector, and to not go along to disrupt their working environment and to build at any given time any uncertainty about how the environment will be prolonged. I hope, more dignified President, that we can have the wisdom to consider such matters in the treatment of the council in the financial program we are discussing here. I'd like to finally, sir, a respectable president, to speak in this roundabout financial plan, a case that I and some members of the Parliament have repeatedly adopted in the chamber, which truly turns to view our economic affairs and to look at our national culture, which is in my mind a major problem to deal with, which is a rising food prices. All of us know the effect of rising food prices on household survival, and we all know how they look, not just because of Russian invasion in Ukraine, but also because of the fact that this trend had actually begun and the prices of world markets rose dramatically. But in this discussion, in the latter part of a financial discussion, when we discuss individual issues with the minister, we need to make that conversation with the highest level. Food Minister how we can create the knots so that we can strengthen and promote domestic food production, for domestic food production, such as domestic energy production and the use of domestic energy, is part of our economic and economic profits.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u28	President. It's always fun when the superintendents say how awesome everything was here before. But the figures also say other things, especially the inflation development that is always the same evil we've been trying to avoid, and they had to take a lot of action in the collection of deposit stores, etc. to try to prevent this trend. It did quite well, but then the government's actions came to a demand housing market to help people buy. Despite this, housing facilities were lacking. Everyone knew this, everybody pointed it out, and the results are very obvious: Increased prices. When more people buy at the market where there's a shortage, the price will go up. This results in in in inflation, and it turns out that today's largest ingredient in in in inflation is just the cost of housing. This also means that people who are entering the housing market need to borrow more credit. Yes, it's an increase in property for those already in the housing market, it's going out as economic growth and something fun, and it's really great for accounting. But the loans, which were certainly taken on a lesser scale than for an increase in housing prices. A very suitable exchange, an increase in property there, but to some extent, higher payments from lower loans were taken by the owners. The future, however, is still a problem. There is still a lack of housing. There is nothing in this financial program that paints a sort of picture of how issues should be resolved in the future. [[The president calls.]] You can hear it on the board that it's only the company of the labour market and your team to sort it out. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is it government policy for others to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. The direct answer to his question is: No, it is not just the labour market party to solve the problem. The problem cannot be solved on one level. He must be relieved in cooperation. I can agree with a lot of what happened. A senator checked the premises. However, I'm going to point out that according to all research and economics, homes'status has grown stronger. He rightly pointed out that the obtaining of a household had improved. We have repeatedly found this aspect as well as many others in our economic presidents and our view of economic issues. If I allow myself, a respectable president, to draw it together in simple form, perhaps we have underestimated the main demand side. There were a lot more who entered the apartment market than predictions made about the housing market and planned. That's what we've seen. I allow me to quote the information of the Homological and Human Resources Agency and discuss with her with a financial committee in that case. There has also been positive signs of housing. It's, for example. Today, a housing market in many parts of the country has begun to protect the value of domestic property from the efforts of people to attack buildings. This will be one of the challenges we face. That's all I'm going to say. Also, I'm not gonna say that this is someone's role, it's the role of a lot of people, whether it's local society, public public, employee movement, professional drivers, and then the industry themselves, to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u30	President. If this is the role of many, and that includes the government, I don't understand why there is no policy on the board from the government: This is what we are going to do to solve this problem. The problem here is a little home-made. Starting to blow out the estate market, as it lays down, helps people who really have homes. If they're going to change housing, they're selling housing for a more expensive home. Yes, their home was raised, so it can still afford them. These are mortgages, whether larger in centenarian values, now that they were two years ago. People need a roof over their heads after all. So the homes' position is really nothing but such a practical accounting at the end of the day. The result for all is increased inflation. The problems of those who now have to get into the market are far greater. The threshold has grown much higher. The other thing I wanted to ask you. A senator is how he feels about the loss of 30 billion in an Icelandic bank's premiere. These are 30 billion of whom the state survived and could have used for at least a debt, if not for various other projects. It's perfectly clean and smart lines that the general expectations for a source are rising by 5%, maybe 10% at the most. But at least 5%. In fact, there was a 60% increase, but it was an enormous lack of appreciation that must have been written on the government because it was warned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u31	A respectable president. Of course, there are other factors that we must not forget on this occasion about the price of living. Increase pay, increase the level of money, increase the potential for buying, or the will to contribute the new coin. A senator pulled up here, the mortgages. Let's not rule out any of these factors. Invested on loans, few investment options offered for short periods or on the market for investors who also entered the apartment market. Let us not forget that effect, either. We are here discussing the financial program of the next year, a respectable president, discussing housing policies and the work we are discussing here, how we are going to adapt this situation, and how we can address its professional minister and ask him when the discussion continues. Second question, why? paritaprevir The Björn of Levi, the Leví of Gunnarsson, is, What do you think? A senator of losing 30 billion during the first sale of Iceland Bank? I'm going to allow myself, a respectable president, simply to say that the price of the bank last year's sale, 79k., was counted by those responsible for it, or was government counseling in it, the price at which things could be obtained. Then there was a great demand. We can totally agree on that, me and what. A senator, that we may have fired too low. But there are also high expectations that also continue to increase stocks, so we cannot say that this is a lost budget. If we were always thinking like that, we could never afford to sell anything. What, then, can we say about someone who sold his car that is suddenly more valuable today? It's a way out of the way to mention it this way. I'm just gonna say that it's mainly the expectations that have been moving on this increase in stock prices as well. A senator mentions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u32	A respectable president. It was a pleasure to hear what happened. A member of the Independence Party, in a rather direct way, admits that too low prices would have been obtained, afterward to consider, for the share of the government in Iceland Bank at the First Mission last year. There is some news, and I agree with him on that. But I'd like to take another step. It's the hospital in Akureyri, which is not just a backup hospital, it's the cornerstone of health care in all the north country. At the Group of Congress, we went to a good conversation with the head of the hospital during the week's election, where we were well aware of the crisis that the hospital faces. Hv. In the days of days, the Councilla, Hilda Jana Gísladóttir, too, a member of the United States council, covered it well with a talk about the need to cut the service of the hospital because of these funds. Well, now, for example. Have been decided to close psychiatric centres for five weeks during the summer period, only emergency services, the closing of mental - day and walking departments, only emergency services, carcinomas that perform aging and rehabilitation services, and, of course, there are other factors, unfortunately. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. A senator agrees with me that this is unannounced, and it is important to make sure that the hospital in Akureyri is able to function as well as keep seawater and good. Thus, it is too disappointing to see a financial program where an estimated 2 billion increase in hospital costs and to distribute it into public hospitals, special hospitals, and foreign hospital services, two hospitals. That's $2 billion a year and what. A senator is now older than two times, and he knows that this is a facade in the big context of health care. [[The president calls.]] Got it. Is this the case with a senator acceptable?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u33	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. First, I'd like to step in on that as a matter of course. A senator thanked and felt that he was a direct statement, I want to review it. Let's just be honest and put it in the right light. We sold a lot of uncertainty in the economy, had predictions of a much greater dive in the economy, and we're extending the cow much faster. It was also discussed in the original text that we were going on in times of uncertainty. I'm not going to throw any reproach on the experts who were counseling in that regard and who considered this acceptable price. Then the market is just the real thing, and then we can have all the opinions on how sensible the market is about to become. I just want to, because of questions. To say that we have 260 billion on health costs in the first year of financial management, 258 billion if I have not calculated this completely. The problem of the individual institutions, in this case of the Hospital in Akureyri, and the figures as of course. A senator here mentioned in that relationship - I'm not going to belittle that problem - is in this context not high. We'll get it, when we talk to the highest. A minister of health care later in this discussion, making a requirement for those who have the legal authority in this household to answer much more than I alone can solve it. I'm going to agree with you. I would also like to remind a senator that the amount of service right there is bad, but I would also like to remind you that in this financial program, there's a substantial amount of mental health care, an increase of 3.2 billion in that period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u34	A respectable president. Once again, I'm glad that we agree on things. I agree, I heard that in the middle of a pandemic, when no one knew what the development of economics and property markets would be like, it may have been foolish to take on bank sales during this superabundant period of last year. There was a warning, a warning against risking the price to pay for the bank. Group members warned us not to do this. The labor movement warned against this. Experts warned about this. But it happened. But okay. Still, let us keep to the topic of health care. This financial program, as mentioned earlier, has been established that hospital care costs should only increase by 2 billion a year. Like what? A senator mentions them as a drop in the ocean, depending on the amount of expenses that go to the jury every year. Hospital services for financial management include hospital services, special hospital services, and foreign hospitals, and under these circumstances, there are two hospitals. That's $2 billion. If we'd, for example. extra expenses for the Akureyri hospital lasts only one billion for both Land Hospital and all the other hospital services. There's very little to trade. Then you must ask yourself, " Should I get my money somewhere else? ' How do you do this? How should both of these be done and then continue to support the reduction of the patient's financial share? This is, as if I've gone over here earlier today, an enormous spending fee being introduced in this financial program. Has a what? A senator's concern about the conservative policy that was presented there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u35	A respectable president. I'm not going to take long talks about selling Iceland Bank. I'm just looking at it this way and answering it the way I do here. Hv. A member of Parliament noted that members of the United States had warned against this and others. I'm just not sure who's willing to senators to sell Iceland banks, I often wondered. I don't think they'd dare get out of the house wall because there's always uncertainty times. But this was done, and this is evolution, let's not argue about it. Hv. A senator here mentions such factors as the patient's expense department. I want to recall that over the past few years, much of the added money we have spent on health care, which we sometimes call new funds, although it is a special word, has been about reducing the expense share of patients in the medical system. Also, we do not draw a feather that no one has received such an injection in recent years and in health matters. But there is always more to say, and more is needed. I'm going, for the counterweights. A senator, making it clear that when we have a 260 billion case, we also need the courage to discuss the role and organization. That's why I'm glad to hear that people are finally talking about covering the roles of our large hospitals. And how can we also support other health centers? How can they handle assignments? How can we effectively resolve this, in a reasonable way, in the mind of complete patients? How can we make more use of this money? That is our assignment, and that is what we will discuss.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u36	Madam President. I'd like to introduce to you this past discussion of the Council's Misconception proposal on the budget of 2023,2027, a few things that I believe would be wise to look to some extent in the treatment of the Committee for a subsequent discussion. First, I'd like to mention transportation. We hear constantly that there has never been more, that we have seen such a period of construction in recent years that the nation has never seen so much action. Yesterday, I received an answer to a inquiry that I first proposed to the court 300 days ago to the highest level. Minister of wood and then repeated when a council meeting in the fall, where it was actually checked, from 1999 to a certain context, and from 2003 on, in what way the new investments in the road would actually have evolved. It presents a whole different picture, but it has been held here in a Senate hall for what is of this council and for all of its last terms, and it matches the tone of the testimonials, whether by bank or other economists, that new investing, as said in public investments, is not to come to an end as planned. When these data are available from yesterday on transport investments, I think it would be good to consider in what way these factors are made up of other investments, whether in nursing homes or in other infrastructures. Then we will see in the existing financial program, if we examine the new investment rates until 2020, next year, 32 billion, 28 years, then 26 and 25 C.E. During the planned period, from 2023 a2027, the estimated budget for transport and communications is reduced by 22%, from 31 billion to 970 million to 25 billion and 143 million, respectively, from 32 billion. to 25 in the strategy period. This doesn't seem to fit the image of new investments and public investments. On the other hand, this matches the film drawn in by the partners who analyze these trials day in and day out. Also, I believe that the Committee's work will be treated with a financial community. In that way, I look especially at the balance fund. There are two main factors, first of which these so - called cohesion practices are to be seen and have the yellow root indeed been flashed around and may be fine, but the yellow root has been flaunted, many of which, on the grounds that there is a new money to come in, when the fact is that it is taking this cohesion strength from within when a defined income-mail equation has been set, so it is reduced to other factors and the effects of this I think it is necessary for the financial committee to distinguish between debates. Second, I think it would be wise to do so. A financial committee considered whether any rural community is likely to be under the surveillance committee on the financial affairs of the rural community. Am I especially looking to that which I shall hopefully have the opportunity to ask the highest. To this day, when attending the discussion, the secretary for the office of NYU has been answered in terms of the office of the City of Reykjavík in connection with the development of a social setting, where 70 billion can fall on the opposite side of the spine, so to speak, in terms of the accounting for the city of Reykjavík. You, too, because I'm at the highest. The minister of finance is in the hall, raised a discussion with national stadiums, and found nowhere in the financial program until the next five years. It was then claimed that it was intended to use an accumulated investment vector to live up to that structure in due course, and I would like to ask, although it is not clear if I'm getting an answer here, whether it's watching to use the reserve for these factors, i.e. is it the investment mood that is discussed, or is explained by this so - called investment problem elsewhere in the plan, that I overlook where this accumulated investment problem lies within the financial budget as it is available? These are factors that I would like to direct to. Funds to review between discussions. Then only with regard to the big picture, of course, the Habitat view is on its own, with various researchers in terms of the development of both economic growth and inflation, of course, but there are factors that, of course, so that there are all fairness to those who win this document - they need to choose one of the standards and the values of the Haf living room, of course, the standards that are chosen. However, it does have to be in mind how much higher the plans of various analysts are in terms of the development of inflation than what the Habitat stands for today. This is what I would like to say in this earlier discussion as a spokesman for the Central Party, that the three things I'm especially concerning transport are going to be considered in the first place, whether it's really that we're looking at 22% recession in new investors, as here in the document on page 6. 264 where the budget is framed, the estimated investment budget goes from 32 billion to 25 billion during this five-year period, the financial affairs of the countryside, how the equation is fixed in relation to cohesion, and the potential for reducing the position of large rural society, as well as for others, and where this accumulated investment contract is found in the plan and whether it is to use the reserves or where it is placed. I'll do it for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u37	A respectable president. I would like to give this brief attention to the investments of the state funds. On page 18. 89 and further in the printed copy, we have a box 7, which covers the investment level, and we have one team, another inexplicable investment, which is only installed on this page. 90 how other unspecified investments hides in an investment range during the second half of the strategy period. If I may read here, by permission of the President, Then this team will also agree on a set investment vector built in the basis of the plan to maintain the state's investment level and to offset the reduction of donations for investments at the end of larger projects. It really needs to be read together when you look, for example. disassociated from transport, investments, and other such groups, ask themselves: " What is the overall range that is set aside for investments? I especially want to draw attention to what is on the bottom page. 90 where it is noted that planning for these projects has not proved too effective, and we often end up with an enormously well - financed project that cannot be planned. The Parliament likes to maintain a certain level of investment and has felt that it had the right priorities. What's to be done? We have, for example. setting priorities in the Hospital. Then, at the end of the last year, we have 10 billion investments, which are funded by the council, and we can ask ourselves, " Do I not need a flexible arrangement that could open up to changing my priorities in order to maintain my investment? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u38	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for a good explanation. You're right. There's an explanation for this happening. I agree with the highest. Ministers that there is some way they need to increase their space so that they can cope with change. I've sometimes been joking about how when I worked at the 2006 Department of Transport, Chets Forest was just about right. To get started, and in the real world, we're getting to a place right now, 2022. Work projects are burned to the point where the time line can be disloyal. I might use this opportunity to ask the highest. A minister of whether he believes that the laws on public finances offer room for such flexibility. Now we are, for example. with a transport plan, a five-year strategy, and a long-term plan for 15 years, so you would expect it to be quite successful, and we've talked about it here in this room, in the way the development procedure should be done, within the five-year plan and at the age of 15. What should be considered in the laws on public finances so that we can adapt these variations to projects that we simply cannot succeed in by means of organizational matters or whatever they may be. It's been going on for so long, this situation. I just can't believe that we're still in this position, with all this uncertainty built-in, as is here drawn up by another undisclosed investment, which ends to 23.4 billion in 2020, a quarter or fifth of the total investment. What is it, topv? A minister whom we most need to consider in the civil law in order to correct this? [[The president calls.]] And can it be expected that such suggestions will arise, even some piece of full analysis and evaluation and review of the code of the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u39	A respectable president. The second undisclosed investment points to the fact that there is a general review of the rules on this subject, and perhaps we should finish that work before I can answer whether it requires a change in the law on official financial matters. But it is also on the projection that we need to develop more flexibility. I think it is very important that we try to be honest when we look back and ask ourselves: " What was it that failed when we planned to get this money out? This reference was made to how the Chets Forest had been treated. I'm also thinking about issues that are closer in time. We have been very concerned with funding a nursing facility, such as, it's gone a little slower than it was supposed to. It hasn't stood in the council and finance. There are other examples. If we were to go back in time, it would be nice to review local government elections, where the most talk was about a swimming track that is still in the long future somewhere, though not a very long future. The national arenas are in my mind a project that we could decide to use to some extent, to put them on better schedule, but there will be a lot to do, e.g. the cost of ruralisation and the like. I believe that we have repeatedly, over and over again, also in a transport program, wonderfully overrated our performance. Senators all shield themselves as they close up their transport plans and become ambitious for their country, their homelands, etc. and inject into the plan all kinds of projects that are often well - funded for the future. [[The president calls.]] It turns out to be so unrealistic when it comes to how much work can be done in a short time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u40	Madam President. This may be a conversation rather than an answer that takes place here, but I agree with the highest degree. With regard to expectations, financial ministers are often out of touch with the physical world. I think that's to some extent because of the same problems that the government recently encountered. The rule was always that an employee was trained for the number of flight traffic directors needed, just to point. There was no reason to create any unemployment in that profession, and the class had a very strong position and, of course, is important for national interest, safety, and so forth. I think that to some extent we may be in the same place as the transport program. While we do not have a stable vision of the growth of these projects, new organisations, even financiers, do not see to develop companies that can come into this market and care for the projects they are offering, which, in turn, lead to a very small number of companies doing most of the things involved in trying. I think these fluctuations and poor perceptions are an independent problem in which we are able to build a contractor market in which luminaries capable of carrying out a large multi-tasking project. I don't remember any new contractor business that has been formed since many of the release of the bank. There's something that we should consider that, I think, and it will bring back the state funds, the road structure, and others, the state markets, and anyone who stands at auctions, better for the future. I think it's part of the picture that needs to come up with this picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u41	Madam President. I want to thank you. Just as a senator for a fine talk, it is interesting to hear an explanation given here. Minister. Of course, when the Allied Council approves of budgets for projects and investments, the Commission will be responsible for putting the money into work. There, a minister is obliged to handle administrative and surveillance duties and must respond even to proposals to correct the situation if it fails to succeed. But this is just an important discussion here. I hear the highest. Minister is aware of its importance. This is where we spoke. A senator, including a member of the U.S. about the recesses presented in transport expenditures during this financial programme's budget. This is not the only case example of being so angry with the forward movement of this government community. I'd like to quote in here words that the Minister of wood and the head of the Party fell last month. He said: The minister is here given a high priority on the development of social housing across the country and has submitted proposals for financial support in the years 20233/42/2027 of a significant increase in funds to increase the development of apartments by public housing... in 1996. In fact, there is a financial programme, which is actually expected to reduce contributions to housing and planning. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólafsson, who is at all equally sensitive to this political empire: What does this tell us about the balance of power in this government community? It's the highest. Secretary of finance playing with the humiliation of the Supreme Court. Industrial Minister or what? Why does one minister say one thing and another?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u42	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. One day everything is here - being called sensitive. I take it very well and thank you and I will carry this message to my wife. But as for this intervening cooperation of the government groups, I think--now, of course, I am speaking on the basis of my sensitivity in these topics. Like what? A senator came into them, I try to analyze it, and to some extent, I think this must be made clear because the leadership of the advance party I think has gone very fast through the door of joy as to measuring its strength after the recent elections, perhaps beyond the ideals. Sometimes only those who commit suicide need to be cooled off, and this could be to some extent the message sent in a financial programme that the Ministers of the Future Party may have to take care of themselves before all their wildest dreams are met with financial expenditures at the expense of our taxpayers. But it's such a quick diagnosis. I haven't thought about an answer, but I'll think about it, if there's any reason to deviate from this analysis. But I think this is the main explanation that the Ministers of the Agency receive to some extent shorter straw than they had expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u43	A respectable president. The leadership of the advance party went too fast on the door of joy. That's what the sensitive analyst here says. In various contexts, it may be appropriate to agree. This is not the only group, it's transport, and it's the housing. That's where the advance party gets this one. And then, of course, it's just a huge payment when it comes to e.g. to culture and art, and when it comes to the high school system, and when it comes to health care, we were here talking about an estimated 2 billion increase per year in hospital care expenditures, which is so in the big context not in the nose of cats. In many ways, this is a very conservative program. I want to give it a what? A senator again has the opportunity to provide sensitive analysis of all of this. What does that mean? What does this financial program tell us about the forwarding party and what that category is getting out of this government partnership, the winner of the last election? Why are they doing this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u44	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I must admit that I had not now connected the dots sufficiently clearly in this regard. But it's interesting to see that the High Ministers go away, looks soon to me, but badly out of this, if the minister's aim is the growth of his own ministry. But it's not clear what the goal is, but I don't think the government knows most days what it's all about. I'm trying to take a look at these numbers while I answer them. Senator. What has to do with health issues; if only the numbers are looked to as they are and the same system, we will again see pictures of beds in the garage as we see them. But the message to the health minister I think must include in this financial programme is that he is advised to proceed to a major debate about how the system is being run. I think it's the only thing you can read out of this. A former surgeon said that, now hoping I'm right behind, but that's what he said, that money could be put on the health system forever, but it would never work if the system wasn't fixed. So I'm going to allow myself to identify this message, a financial plan, in this way to the highest level. A health minister is advised to engage in a major conversation that I am not entirely convinced that he knows who to be. But I'm sure the message will arrive at some point.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u45	Madam President. Here we will discuss a financial program based on the financial policy submitted to the council and agreed at the end of the year. I'm not going to use these opening words to specifically review my Ministry classes, but, of course, I'm going to answer to them if it is. People wish to, but I'd rather discuss the big movie. In short, it is that the successful status of the State Fund in an epidemic enabled us to make use of the lessons we drew from the financial collapse, i.e. State funds were applied systematically to soften the economic impact of the epidemic on homes and businesses and reduce the decline in the economy. It is interesting to consider that measures in terms of the pandemic will be considered except for the year 2000. 280 billion dollars. between 2020 and 2021, the magnitude was the most between the years and 2021. During the last term, a tax system change plan was held for those who are in the palace. An investment project was under attack, and a transfer system was promoted. I believe that this policy has yielded good results in the general economic situation far better than forecasts expected, salinisation and debt of public memory and employment market status than it did in front of the epidemic. We remember that what we discussed here in the last financial program was expected predictions of unemployment that have not been followed, fortunately. The task of the next year is to restore our financial balance and to rebuild their strength to support social and economic stability and to protect the success that has been achieved and to prepare us for the tragic events that may strike us in the future. There we need to watch social infrastructure and public service. We need to watch research, innovation and creative articles. It's interesting to see how the decisions that have been made, I want to tell from 2012 when the first thing in the application program, for the sake of research, innovation, and creative articles, and the decisions that have been made during the season of 2013 in 2012, when the legislation on innovation companies was changed, they were first set in 2009, and then the decisions we made in the pandemic have made that these sectors have truly flourished. The plan allows the state's budget to continue to be fired, with a range of declines over the period of the programme, and it is assumed to be able to stop the increase in debt as the proportion of land production at a later date than 2026. The State Fund's attitude in 2022 is about 30 billion dollars. Better than the budget of the year expected. It involves a great reversal from the projection in 2020 and 2021, while the recovery rate between the years is about 100 billion bucks. which can be attributed to the significantly higher income of the state's budget and again to the lower unemployment spending as well as, of course, the need for specific pandemic measures. However, we face new uncertainty that is the influence of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It is, of course, a concern in many areas, but it also has economic impacts, and this effect is, of course, expressed primarily by increasing global raw products and oil prices as manifested here by increasing partial inflation. Economic and social stability needs to be clear and important, and I named here the economic and social stability, since both are needed to provide a basis for the good results of a business conference. I would like to mention in particular the investments that have taken place since 2020 when the pandemic struck, and later the campaign was extended by the year 2020. Some of the campaign's activities reach up to 2025, and there is a total estimate of an investment in the 119 billion - year - old campaign. between 2020 and 2020202025, which includes to build up transport workers, to build up new structures, to sustain real estates, to build up digital transformation and information technology, but also, as I mentioned here, a variety of support for research, innovation, as well as energy exchange and green solutions. It is important to keep investing in our community. The government's investment will average less than 3.6% of domestic product during the period and inclusive. will be supported by green investments through the tax system and by the increased research support and development. Then a considerable investment is expected on continued projects. I specifically mention the construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Road that is important. I'm not going to start listing any more investments, but it's important that at the end, of course, there are many cases of a government contract that has not yet been fully evaluated at expense. Of course, this is what awaits us in the years to come. As we know who are used to discussing this plan every year, although it should be until five years of age, there will be new projects and others that will disappear, from the points that we complete here at the council. [[The president calls.]] I expect that. The members of Congress want to know something about them, but it is important that we look to the fact that these projects will, of course, come in later in the season. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u46	Madam President. It is important that financial programs are the most accurate and realistic, not just requests of what is good and desirable. This financial program indicates that they list important things. But if we look at this further, these are often extrapolations to the present position or even cut into the grammatical categories. So there are two of the most urgent solutions of the day: The house problem will be met by reducing the government expenses for housing by 1.4 billion dollars. Climate change and energy exchange will be achieved by allowing energy support to subside by 400 billion. K. Another example of a series of cases that describe all sorts of good ideas without financial support being included, for example. People's health, government, welfare and human rights and equality. There are many beautiful plans, including. sexual activity, as well as action to counteract sexual pay. It speaks of prevention, health care, high - health school, health - control society, and it could be continued, sports, youth, aging work, that is to promote the health of the elderly, to promote health in the workplace. But all the good and preventable health costs seem to be off-limits. According to the financial plan, government contributions to these matters will be drawn up at nearly two billion dollars. Expenditures to the jury are over 12 billion. This year, but it will be 10.5 billion next year. Is this an accident in the form of abject neglect that is to be met in another way or is it simply empty words and even aesthetic?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u47	Madam President. I'll only come to it as soon as possible. At the end of this health issue, a senator mentioned one of the largest financial fees in the state's budget, which particularly included public health. I would like to draw attention to the fact that looking at health issues in this program, the donations are raised by 26 billion between the years 2022 psalmist26. Of course, the number of people is increasing, and they are getting older, so that is, of course, part of this account. However, there are also important mails that are directly involved in strengthening and improving the ministry. I'd like to mention the mental - health services we had during our last term. All of us agree that it needs to be continued, and it is assumed that we should continue to promote it. We're talking about an overall increase of 1.7 billion, and I think it's important public health, and an investment that will, of course, remain a lot and then a payment of patients I know we have. A senator agrees that the key is perfect. It is one of those prosperity issues. As far as human health is concerned, I know that the minister of health that will be here is very interested in focusing on that subject. Maybe then I'll come to my language, my equalities, whatever. A senator mentioned. It is true that the entire budget for the seminary is in the present year 368 million, but there are items within the donations that are temporary donations that I can agree with. A senator says that we need to discuss at the Council whether or not we should be permanent. However, I would like to point out that we will see changes in the terms of human rights. It stands at the door a considerable amount of work on a green book on human rights. I hope that the mapping, led by the Ministry of Equal Opportunities and Human Rights office, will be the basis for a new human rights institution promised in a government contract, which is not financed in this financial program, but I can imagine coming in when the bill of it has been submitted. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u48	Madam President. Of course, this is interesting and shared interests for us. However, this is shown on page 18. 36 that the public consumption has generally increased by 2% per year throughout this century, but it is expected to increase by only 1% in the years ahead, despite the challenges we face, the climate and the demographics of changes and challenges we face. I ask: How does this increase in ambition fit with these categories, and how can it be solved? A new report on the International Hospital and Health Organization in general shows that zero status is bad. Second, I'd like to ask about your housing issues. It's not too many days since it's the highest. During the next five years and other projects, the minister of industrial activity came here in a special discussion that I had made. The minister then said that he had offered such suggestions for a government meeting. Now I simply want to ask, "I know the highest. " ▪ When these suggestions were received, did the prime minister be rejected? You see, I don't see any evidence of what's at the highest. The inside minister spoke of in this financial program, on the contrary. Housing is being summed up by 1.4 billion as well as by the development of some 2 billion. I didn't know what to do at the top. The minister of the wood, or the rest of the government rejected his proposal?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u49	Madam President. Thank you. Again for the answer, there is an important point that he brings up here on the combination. It is worth noting that what view we look at, since we have been using the treasure of the Kingdom with great force. Since the EU's specific support measures are now under way, it is indeed necessary to reduce public support for demand in the economy. After this much increase, the public consumption during a financial program will be very well above the historical average, or 26% of the country's production. [[Up front.]] It's not like the increase, huh? A senator who calls here because, of course, it increases less in historical context over the period than it has recently done, but it can be put in context that it is well over the historical average, including for the pandemic procedures. Certainly it is true that we are at this point to some extent working against tension in the economy. Hv. A senator brings up the matter of housing, and I can assure him of the highest ideas. The Minister of Industrial Affairs has not been rejected at the government table. The ideas related to the premises are being developed. A special group is working, including I hope we will see in our faces the ideas of the Passover as soon as possible. I hope we can talk more about it here at the council, and I hope they will be the basis for setting a defense on the offensive. Although we've been adding stock contributions, even though sharing loans have been introduced, I think we all agree on in this room that we need to do better in housing. We need to secure more roofs over our heads. Ideas of wood ministers are therefore of full value. Making more of your housing arrangements and approaching them in this social way can become a very important issue for future agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u50	A respectable president. We are here dealing with the financial program of the government, which I find in many respects a remarkable document because I now feel that it lacks the truth in many ways. On Saturday, March 6 of the past, I attended the Children's Velocity Fund for Poverty, held in the Icelandic Genoanalysis. I was, I believe, the only senator with the highest. Prime Minister, who I think was the only minister there, who tells a great story, I feel interested in it. It asked whether we could afford to have children in poverty. There was a question about whether it was reasonable to charge children for school meals, preschool, dental, soccer exercise, and leisure activities. Of course, all of this is to be free of charge for the children. Iceland is one of the richest societies in the world and it is a disgrace to have thousands of children in poverty. This conference, which was amazing, was also shown to be before every 1k. which we're gonna join this party, we're gonna get 10 back. I ask: Is the reason why it is not in the financial program to eliminate children's poverty, that prime minister may intend to do so this year? Because if we do 10 billion to this math thing, we get 100 billion back. We have often dealt with this and discussed that certain groups cannot wait for justice anymore, but I think that perhaps we should look at it from a point of view that we should say: " Children can no longer wait for righteousness. If this is the fact that it returns to society, is it not likely that money will be put into it? And the question is, why isn't this part of a financial program? Is the answer, perhaps, that it should only be done now?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u51	Madam President. We're gonna go for a second. The senator was there, and this is a very important matter. I'd like to mention it to the highest. The Minister of Education and Childbearing put these matters on the program here during the last term with its bills on successful children, who had cross - political support here, and we will see their induction process ahead. But I have no doubt that the ideologies of that law will make us all successful, not just the children of the country, because it is a matter of catching children before, and that, of course, is a top priority. I also mentioned at this meeting what we did during our last term, which was extending birthworm and raising payments to parents, another vital step in improving children's interests and reducing the poverty of children and families, for this is, of course, closely related. I also mentioned child support that we raised in our last term. I think there's good reason to take a closer look at that system and how we feel it will be most useful to our families in this country. But all of this is key to making sure what I want to believe that we all agree on, which is that all children get equal opportunities. There are other factors, surely. I can name dentists of children who were attacked in the history of the left government in 2009 and are free of charge. This seminar continued to show that it mattered greatly to the development of such financial support, at times so that if you needed to apply for it, it would simply not be applied. This made me feel very significant, and we need to review the support we give. The Kingdom went in to form now because of a pandemic with a special leisure strength in behalf of children's income. It took time to find the best way to arrange for them, but eventually they were making good use of them. So we also need to consider that the funds we put into this will be useful in the best way, since I have no doubt and agree with them. A senator says it's an investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u52	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. It can be better if it's enough. Yeah, that's all she's saying. This is all we've done, but the problem's still there. The problem is that there are over 5,000 poor children. That was also shown. It tells us that they will remain in poverty, and if we are to wait for this welfare bill to be adopted here -- he says it will take 33/45 years to bring it in, I'd say 51⁄210 years, then we're probably lucky compared to the speed that has been up to this point. And so it is also this question: If the fact is that it returns ten times as much, why can't we handle it? Why don't we finish this? Because at the same time we're saying, "Hey, we're gonna have to deal with the disability problem, get people involved, we're gonna say to our children: You're going to have to wait 2◯3 years, and even send them into disability in the future because some people don't get the service they need. I can't see in the budget or in the government plan how they're going to handle this problem; in the courting lists of children, in the medical system, and see to it - where we are a society and the highest. The secretary of finance has repeatedly pointed out that these are so few. If it's so few, it doesn't cost us anything. It's even ten times that he made it back. Then we must just be able to get together once and for all, eliminate the children's courting lists, eliminate the poverty of children, and also handle the unscrupulousness that is not evident in this financial scheme of social security for the last few decades, and the absurd fact that it should only be raised by 2.5% per year at the same time we have 7% inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u53	Madam President. I'd like to first point out, because we're talking here about sensitive groups and the people who are locked on their feet, that in our response to a pandemic, we looked especially at vulnerable groups. When we take together what we have spent for support and service to the most vulnerable groups in society, and then I'm talking about special projects, we've spent 13.8 billion in that service. Then I'm just talking about direct funds for social projects and litigation to ensure services and support, direct contributions to better ensure the survival of these groups, not these general labour market operations. Hv. A senator here refers to the normal social security system, where contributions to disability and the causes of the disabled rise by 10.5 billion during the period according to plan. In addition, additional donations are expected to start a review of the microenergy pension system of social security with a specific contribution to the new employment renewal and labour market resources to support the work programme of people with less ability to work and a higher number of employment tools. We are so expected to bring in a social and employment service minister here a bill for this terms, hopefully the first part of that terms, with the aim of making this system better, as we have so often discussed, me and the rest. A senator, who is a great and zealous fighter for improving the system. I think we would agree that we want to make it more beneficial and more righteous. While not available, it may not be safe to tip over money here in a financial programme. However, the council will receive these legal adjustments, and the costs for them will also be shown in budgets and plans for the next year. I'm also optimistic about that, because we're talking about investment, I think that the increased participation of these groups will also increase their social activity and their increased income toward society. So I have strong faith that these changes can benefit not only for individuals but also for the individuals as we look at the math, as well. A senator mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u54	Madam President. On page 18. 448 of this huge record of equality and human rights matters, with President permission: The forward vision of the paintings of equal and human rights is to be in the highest order and to guide the perspective of equality when making public decisions. Iceland wants to be in the front order when it comes to equal and human rights. The primary objective of international equality and human rights is that all people have equal opportunities to enjoy their own energy and to develop their abilities regardless of gender, race, nationality, belief, vision, disability, age, sexual orientation, or gender expression. In order to achieve these ambitious goals of the government, there have been some of these factors. passed law No. 85/2018, regardless of race or ethnic background. Under the law, any discrimination in every aspect of society is prohibited because of race or ethnic background. There are also instructions on discrimination as well as on harassment when associated with race or ethnic background. There are anti-discrimination regulations in connection with social protection, goods and services, school discrimination, and parenting, and advertising discrimination. For the council, there is now a bill for changing these laws, where there is the possibility of increasing the number of discrimination factors that are under the law, as the standard is today exclusively race and ethnicization. To add the factors I listed earlier. At the observation of the case, in the discussions and information opening up of the General and Education Committee I'm in for this, it brought me to my attention that it seems, if any, that these laws have been tried very little. I couldn't find any decision, no judgment. On the basis of these laws, I could not see that any matter has come to the appropriate government. [[The president calls.]] So before we reach financial bounds, I would like to ask the highest. Whether this law serves its purpose or whether there are any faults in it, the prime minister is concerned. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u55	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, which may not be of concern to the financial agenda. It mentions a bill that became the law 2018, the differential factor of the work market, and another bill that is now known to be comparable to the differences in value in non-work market cases. I'll mention it to you at what. This year, a member of Congress ruled by the Court's Committee of Equal Opportunities, which involved the age variable, which is a landmark decision made by the Social Affairs Committee of Equal Opportunities. He is the first of his species, and as a result of a considerable publicity in the media, he was associated with information from Istavia because of his age. For the first time, the Court's Committee of Equal Opportunities evaluated this on the basis of the discrimination factor of the age. I understood why. A member of the council, so she wondered if these factors had been taken into consideration. There is that decision. Hv. A senator went on to ask if I felt that the law was not doing any good. Yes, I think the law is doing something useful, and I expect we're going to get more cases that will depend on other discrimination issues other than gender and on a wide variety of discrimination, as expected in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u56	Madam President. I'm afraid it's the highest. Prime Minister has misunderstood the legal code I am referring to. All I'm talking about is law on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u57	Outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u58	Outside the labour market. In every aspect of society. I have searched for doors and dances, and I have found no ruling or any other case that has come up with this. At the same time, it was stated in our background that one of the reasons why these laws have not been tried, on the grounds of racial and national discrimination, is that people in that position tend to find themselves in various kinds of trouble in seeking their rights. There's a language problem, an ignorance of the system, something like that. That may be where I come to the financial part of my inquiry as the highest level. Prime Minister missed my first question. It's about whether it's possible to go to some kind of presentation and effort and to place some money on making people who are most likely to be influenced by discrimination, which I suspect, and I fear is quite widespread in our community in spite of many good things and despite the good desire of the government to change it, to attend this important right of itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u59	Mr. President. I got it wrong. While in the context of this decision, which letter was referred to by a senator, I quoted from this year that it is quite remarkable how much time it took to get that case, although it was heard under other laws. We often see this in terms of our efforts at the General Assembly that it may take a long time for people to test them. Sometimes the council is chasing society. At times, we may even be a little ahead of the community. I think it's interesting as hell. A senator mentions. I want to mention here that a new non-inferiority strategy will appear here prior to the year 2024 families027 during the election season and part of the preparation for that strategy is precisely evaluating the results of these laws we have been establishing, that it can be said that during the last term, there has been a significant improvement in the legal environment of equality, in the management of equality, in these two lawlines, within and outside the labour market, in the sexual autonomy laws, on the rights of the Intersex children, etc. Part of this strategy needs to be determined what the results are. You have to go for it, like a shot. A senator mentions, and I think it's just an idea that I'm going to take down and have my eyes examined, to draw the public's attention to his rights? In some respects, this may still be a strange thought for some, and perhaps even the least groups, i.e. where to seek justice. We can do better in general, I think, in our community, to share information also, for example. Those from a foreign background have broken down, not in English, and have to pay a lot of attention. So I feel that this is an important point I take with me from this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u60	A respectable president. I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister in equal matters. That's the jury at the highest. Minister and I have in itself this question addressed to her before making it back into a bargain deal, i.e. about the persistent poor standing of large groups of women. We all know the position of the unexplained pay of the sexes, which, in fact, have indeed declined greatly positively, and then we know the reality of the second wage of the sex, which is an independent problem. Sadly, the difference in pay is far greater, and I view it as the political challenge. These differences are the result of, as we know from an attitude, that women's classes are worth far less in the labour market than other classes with comparable responsibilities and comparable education. We've seen this show in that when the percentage of women in casts rises, the terms go down, as they did with elementary school. At the Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary decision for the national condition of women's classes was made to improve in 2017. I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Where does the financial program show that the government is about to step down here? Will there be any special action on the part of the government in behalf of this objective?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u61	Mr. President. Þorbjörg you. Gunnlaugsdóttir For a very important inquiry, you must support Sigrídídur, Gunnollóttir. Now it is so that you can't tip over, or you can't. A senator, of course, did not ask for it, for how we adjusted the pay of the sex. But it's interesting to consider what the government has done, I mean. I'd like to form a topic that is closely linked to a series of whales. A senator, revitalized, about the same amount of pay. As we examine the changes that have been made in the pay of the sex, we have seen it shrink, and in recent years we are reducing rapidly. I even want to. linking it to the induction of equally pay work, so, of course, government actions are working. This difference in pay varies according to markets. In 2020, he was remembered by local personnel, next by the state, and then by the general market. All over the world, though, it shrinks. I mean it has something to do with this. We see that he is now 2.7% in rural society and 3.3% in the state. Then the time will come. A senator would like to discuss, which is the pay difference that still exists, perhaps largely explained by the sexual division of a labour market complex. I ordered a group on this matter, i.e. depending on the classes. That group is active and represents the partners of the labour market and rural society. I have great expectations that that this group will be able to bring up real action. I'll take a look. Of course, we have planned to eliminate this amount of wages, not just last year, but years ago. [[The president calls.]] But we see real changes, and I have strong faith that the proposals of this group may be what will help us reach the final meters of this project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answers. Next, I wanted to ask her about the global situation and about Europe's interests and security in relation to the financial program. This war is taking place today by warfare, through electronic warfare, taking place what might be called economic warfare in the form of economic action and commercial barriers. National security has rarely been more urgent than modern - day Icelandic people. I specifically mention Iceland's weak position in connection with Internet security. We're under the International Transition of 58th. Situated by 182 states, far lower than all the North countries. I wanted to ask the highest. Of course, the prime minister now, in the context of a financial strategy, may also be more general, what answers are made regarding protection and security. National Security Policy was set in 2016. Well, what's the most. A minister realizes that the government can now strengthen the institutions and infrastructure that have these projects? Are there new tasks in the pipes that are needed to inform us about right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u63	Mr. President. If I may start with the general, I feel that it was a very good thing to attack a national security policy that was prepared by representatives of all groups at the General Assembly and approved here at the General Assembly of 2016. It has put the security issues in perspective that we are looking at them as a broad order in which it is important to have different factors underneath, whether it is safety regarding epidemics, food security, Internet security, as well as noise. A senator specifically mentioned, the traditional military security - we can discuss the information and security of a democracies community, and so on. I'd like to draw attention to this, since these issues may not have been very much discussed here at the General Assembly for the Russian invasion of Ukraine, that a fine report on the implementation of national security policy shows that we are on the basis of our policy to change our work on the basis of security systems, which I consider to be good. Hv. A senator specifically mentions the Internet security issue, and it is absolutely correct that we can do better there, and we expect half a billion more from 2025 C.E. to meet online security issues and multiple factors. One key area in developing a five - year strategy that will base on the focus of the online security policy is the Department of Education, Industrial, and Neonography. That's even where we're at. talking about the research and development of the Internet security sector, measures that promote response to Internet attacks and contribute to improving law-enforcement and law enforcement in which children and other vulnerable groups are particularly concerned. This is quite extensive because the Internet is just so much of our lives and when we discuss Internet security, it is really our vital infrastructure, communication equipment, and environment in our daily lives, so it is absolutely important. We're adding quite a bit. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to say that there's no need to do better during this period, but it may well be. But I think it's a very important focus that there's some good solid solidarity here in this room. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u64	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the government budget. I'd like to put it here in this sermon as an independent person that I think it's both humanable and reasonable to support the worst of the financial resources, but when money is made from these public funds, it needs to be carefully monitored for the provision of their funds and resources. Now I have been serving on a financial committee, and sometimes I have put my silences on how I feel that the public funds are somewhat free of charge. I would like to remind you in the context that, of course, there is money that Icelandic employees and Icelandic companies have had quite a bit of money to earn and that they should respect that fact. There is also the fact that during the time of the crowning virus, a great deal of money has slipped out of the financial system. These are decisions that no doubt have been made with good intentions but, in great haste, some considerable amounts of money were left out of public funds. I have a question for a prime minister linked to a recent news report from Britain where the analysis of Oxford University shows that it is likely that up to 10% of the funds that went from government funds for this purpose, caused by the crown virus, has actually been lost by fraud. It is 37 billion pounds. Now, as I say, it is the job of senators and Ministers to protect the taxpayers' interests by holding, monitoring, and especially by council. [[The president calls.]] I would like to direct the inquiry to the prime minister whether or not to make an assessment of the management of public funds derived from a government fund in the last year's losses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnar Þór Jónsson for his inquiry. This is interesting, as he put it, about an analysis from Britain. It is absolutely true that when faced with the situation that came here very suddenly because of a pandemic, it was decided to take a very big step in using a government fund to support both the public and the professional. Hv. A senator is likely to consider the very resources that were especially involved in the workplace, for the common people did so as child - reforms and other things that were primarily designed to come to terms with and care for the needs of the people. I wouldn't think that would rule out. We're working on how the management system reacted to the epidemic. This evaluation is in progress and as an assessment of the social impacts. I didn't think it was wrong to look at this. In general, that's what it's all about. A senator here refers to fraud and possible abuse in the matter, but it is my opinion that we have been taking a good step in making changes in the order of money and the defense against terrorism, the changes we made here on tax issues, e.g. with the development of regulations on the development of a thin self-finishment. I have no doubt that I can do better when it comes to the project. Of course, we have only x great human beings, and we are actually very interesting to study the activities of the tax. It is a great success that this organisation has to produce in these areas. I believe, however, that there is a full need to be always on the toes there, and we can certainly do better. If we invest in an institution like the Thomson, I have no doubt that it will return much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The prime minister for the answers, and he wants to reiterate my inquiry on the basis that these decisions have been made with good intentions. I believe, however, that it is important that we establish trust between the taxpayers and the council. Therefore, I will use this opportunity, reminding the council, and all those who have the hand to distribute these riches, to take full responsibility, and to take care of the provision of this treasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. Of course, if we try to use some measure of action, it is remarkable - and we always talk about long - term plans here, but of course we have huge fluctuations in the world economy and also in our small economy - that this year's state funds have 30 billion dollars. The budget of the year was expected to be better than the budget of the budget. This tells me that the operation was due. This reversal can really be attributed to improved economic outlooks, lower unemployment expenditures, and higher government funds because the measures were successful. If we want to use any metering bar to determine if the function was working properly, this is one measure to do so. It tells us that the situation of the Icelandic economy is far better than we predicted. It's much better than many others predicted, I can tell you, and even testify. In this hall, because we spent a lot of time discussing unemployment that did not go on, mainly because of this government policy in the affairs of the state funds. When we carry that meter on the operation, I think it'll show that it's done well. But at the same time, I agree with what. A senator, it is important that we keep our eyes on the ball when we are making wise use of the public money, that it is spent wisely, and that it is not abused in any way. So I believe that an investment in the Skatti will always return a lot of times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u68	A respectable president. Everyone realizes that the state funds have been used pretty vigorously to counteract the economic setbacks made by Covid-19. It was in my opinion a good decision, a decision that had the intent to protect and protect both the business and the people in the country, and it succeeded. Once again, I am optimistic, optimistic, but realistic. Realistically, the state of state funds and the realistic position that there is still work to be done in many areas. Working as well as working at a total of 450 billion dollars is involved in the Department of Wetlands. who are involved in the financial program for the next five years. As in the past, the largest item comes to transport, or about 230 billion. After a successful investment campaign, direct contributions from a government fund are somewhat reduced to invest in investments, but significant indirect donations are expected to be made in connection with the transport contract of the capital area, cooperation, and building and financing of the soils. For example, in the years that will be financed in part by indirect donations, there are Eaglenes Ways on the Breinholt Road, the Road of Breast, and the Rhine Ways, Savile on the Grand Way, and Sea Road, the first stage of a city line, a new Alf - Aveng Bridge, Axar Road, and a new bridge across the Hornland River. Local and international flights will continue to be strengthened. For example, next year a new international air level station in Akureyri will be completed, and through the aerosol bridge the cost of flights will continue to be paid to those living far away from the capital area. There will continue to be great ports, and among the most extensive improvements, there will be proposed reforms in the village harbor, increases in Dizziness banks at Isafjordur, as well as acts at the Njardík, and in the South Pacific. Our rural communities have no more than the state funds have been part of the Covid-19 epidemic. Their overall recovery has been negative, but it is expected that there will be a slight reduction during the financial budget, so that by the end of the period there will be a negative result of less than 8 billion or 0.2% of GDP. The situation is better, however, in rural areas, but projections expected that are mainly explained by the fact that income has been higher than expected. At that time, a government fund was a protection for the contribution of rural funds when income was added to the fund and guaranteed a large contribution from the fund. In a financial program, contributions from the rural budget are expected to increase along with increasing income and an increase of some 140 billion dollars. over the next five years. Units of rural society can contribute to more sustainable and sustainable rural areas. Today, they are rapidly decreasing and are now 69, with a reduction of about five after the end of the district election. I have hoped that this will continue and will do my part in order to strengthen the level of government. The site will continue to be brief, including However, contributions remain stable and become less than 10 billion dollars. over the next five years. Most important, I'd like to mention planning and housing, new seminars for the new superintendent. The fact that these lawsuits are under the same ministry is immediately given to another focus. It gives us increased opportunity, increased efficiency, to link them with other departments of the Ministry, such as rural, regional, and transport. How exciting it is to meet these new challenges! They're burning on us, I know, we all know. I'm telling you that all hands are on deck at this job, a lot of diagnostic work is being carried out, as well as policy. I will propose here at the council a proposal for a resolution on housing later in the year that will be the first of its kind. This financial program is carefully stepped to the ground for the simple reason that the analysis of the situation and policy is not available. It is clear, however, that the first step is to increase the number of structural weights. The situation is being determined by these spoken words, identifying every beach, whatever it takes to do. I'm looking at negotiations between the Ministry and the local community on planning property rhythms with the mobs and local housing plans. I know it's the will of both sides. Companys feel a responsibility, and they want to contribute to the people of the country. It takes extensive cooperation to balance supply and demand. When balance is achieved, it is essential that governments support those who are needed, whether they have share loans, social property systems, housing improvements, or anything that works to achieve the goals of living and maintaining housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u69	V.E.G. President. Investing the subject of planning and housing matters, a new group of cases in the new and very enlarged departments in the country, the Council of Congress reports that there is no arrangement for housing that will be later in the year than that there is no analysis of the situation. I'd like to know what was causing, because in the large and powerful infrastructure, there is no analysis of the position of the housing market, whether it is really such that a housing agency has not identified the situation, whether it is really such that the government in this country does not know the situation. Could be, at the highest. President? I would like to remind you that the minister recently said that as many as 20,000 apartments would be built over the next five years, with 7,000 of them with the arrival of the government in the form of a variety of housing supplies. He said he had clear goals. This was written in a previous article in the winter. There is no financial program at first glance, suggesting that this building is expected. However, it does say that the government is going to lower the general urban planning by 2 billion dollars. Now there may be good reasons for all of this. But two things I want to know and to bring in the minister: Why has the situation not been identified? What's the problem? The second: I believe that contributions to the general housing system and to the development of 2 billion dollars are not to be dropped.?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Sveinbjarnardóttir country Þórunn for these nice questions. Indeed, it is fine to have an opportunity to review the fact that in recent years and decades, we have not had real information at all and really have not had what is going on in an apartment market. Thus, industrial organizations have performed speech, basically the only practical tool to identify the situation. This project is a young institution, but it has taken a very tight grip on it, and we decided during our last term to transfer the so-called mobilization to the Housing and Mobilization Agency. It has become electronic since November, as well as the strategy of our rural society, so gradually we are getting much better information, realistic information, where we can take the situation day by day. But we still need to rely on the talk of the Industrial Association, and I'm aware that they're a dot on the final meters, and I'm sure they'll be introduced in the next few days. There is some evidence that more apartments are there than we have feared. In terms of the contributions, as I said in my speech, that, when the analysis is available, we will expand it further. I agree with what. Senator. While the development process may not go down, it does not mean raising a foundation when the fact is that although a number of people, like Saver, have had to return weights, especially here in the capital area, because they have not been in the building conditions. Although there are areas, they are not ready for construction. Money is not enough if the other does not exist. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're stressing now in our diagnostic work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u71	V.E.G. President. How long is the worm staying? I think it's been discussed for at least Eight years, perhaps more, ten, even, to make electronic mobilization file and to provide community housing plans and to be real-time information. It is good, though, if this is finally going to work, and it can finally stop counting banks and buildings and sending men from cars through rural areas to do so. I hope this is getting to the right place now. But I have to admit, topv. Mr President, I'm surprised at this slow process. In terms of the founding process, yes, they need to be better developed, and they need to be built. That's right. We know that conditions build up in various rural areas, at least In my district, in the Southwestern district, there have been harsh, to say nothing more strongly, in the last four, five years. It has, in fact, been built up a new neighborhood in the Garden Town, which is virtually what has been built up outside the populus of the capital area. I'm going to use this opportunity to remind you in this room that the labor movement, the labor leaders, the labor movement, has spoken very clearly in housing, and all of us know that it will fail with new bridal and collective contracts in the fall, and that it must be the understanding of us all here, whether we are in command or in control, that improvement in housing, to increase the supply of homes that ordinary people are able to buy or rent, the key is that we can make fools contracts in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u72	A respectable president. I just want to come up here and agree with what. Senator. I think everyone agrees that the solution to continued prosperity in this country is to view housing as some kind of security, not a venture. Part of it is to provide variety of resources for different groups. Today, likely 30% of apartments are somehow built by public sources, either directly or indirectly. We've been looking at the scene whether it needs to be taken up to 35% while we're getting balance. That is why we've presented whether or not to have so - called social property support on top of the share loans. The shares may also have two different types of loans, but the general apartments with the founding contributions as well as the other support that we use to contribute to a variety of housing that may be afforded to all or at least to the extent possible. Of course, we also need to make sure that the rent market is active and that its rent is normally available for that group. I'm glad the Senator picks it up here. I agree that part of achieving reasonable agreements in the fall will be some kind of response to what we are doing in our housing situation right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u73	A respectable president. This year's budget accounts for 16.3 billion in housing and planning, of which most or 15.9 billion are expected in housing. According to the financial program that we are discussing here, contributions to the seminar are expected to drop to 14.9 billion next year or about 9% and remain as good as unchanged for the next four years. At the same time, there is an unprecedented lack of supply of housing that has resulted in an increase in housing prices of more than 20%, and inflation is now 6.7%. At the same time, it is predictable that the Ukraine war will result in dramatic increases in building materials, which have already begun to rise. So I would like a minister to explain that such a reduction in housing donations is expected and no increase in them for the next four years. Don't you think it's time to expect a raise in the season? Does not increasing population need to be expected during this period, especially in view of the fact that immigrants from abroad have rarely been or never had more? Don't you also need to increase your donations above these factors so that you can build up new housing for the lack of oers? And a talk about the lack of property, which is the responsibility of a local partner but the highest. A minister also deals with rural affairs: What measures are being taken to promote greater incentives for rural areas to break more land subsidies, organize weights, and distribute them to new buildings? Has a minister called for consultation with the local communities and their organization on these issues, or does he intend to do so? [[The president calls.]] Is there any reason to negotiate with rural communities for the use of land space owned by the state under an apartment area where this applies?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helga Þórðardóttir's daughter for good questions about the housing. It's true that if we compare, for example. The five - year budget has reached them by about 57 billion but will be 61 in the next five years. It is clear that we will need to add even more. In my first talk, I was discussing the decline of the founding budget to form in the following year about 2 billion, and we are considering how we can apply it and other factors. That's a very important part of it. Then I agree with you. A senator, of course, that it's the responsibility of the community and one good part of having put together in this department of government and housing and planning, is just that we now have a common perspective in the same Ministry and may be able to use more equipment. I mentioned it in my speech, and I mentioned it here at one time earlier in the winter that we are going to have a conversation with the locals. In fact, it is initiated in a special group of work that we have set up for national interest, and we are guided by the government by the Prime Minister. This analysis work is already started in one of five subgroups that all depend on a view of the housing issues, where the problem is, and offer suggestions for improvement. One way to do that is, as I mentioned in my speech, to negotiate with individual rural areas for the growth of property, enough structural skills at any given time in line with housework and mob forecasts at any given time. And that is also possible. A senator mentioned, examining other routes such as the possession of a country, if possible, in order to ensure adequate supply. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u75	A respectable president. I'd like to step back to the rising housing prices and its impact on inflation, which will account for a dramatic rise in the payload of households with the prices of housing commitments. A group of people have provided a bill for the reduction of housing teams from index prices for insurance and at least Three Prime Ministers, including the highest. wood ministers, have expressed themselves to this idea. Residence with the engraftment team is now measured by 6.7% but without housing, it is measured by 4.6% or 2.1 percentage points lower. Therefore, it is clear that the removal of the housing team would substantially reduce the increase in securities insurance. So I want to ask the highest. Minister whether he's serving this case at the government table and investigating the basis for removing the housing team. Does the wise minister strive to do all he can to get his support? I can assure you that there will not be any opposition in the people's Philly. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir It's a Sveinbjarnardóttir country Þórunn that we're going to need to increase the stock money. Also, I'd like to step in on housing policies. According to a report on the financial party, the government's policies and measures on housing will not be submitted until the next assembly, or first in the fall. But the problem is now, and it is not new. It has long been predictable. [[The president calls.]] Why are such policies not long ready? What is needed? Can't you get started right away? There is a need to do this, to increase heat supply, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u76	A respectable president. We can agree that there is a need to increase the growth of land supply, but of course we need to make it clear where it is and exactly what it is and how it is, and then, in accordance with the population forecast and housing plans of the individual rural communities. It is the current work that is being done, and it is very important because it enables us to come up with a customized solution. Although it may take some time to build the first Senate resolution in the plagiarism, it will not be held in the council in the fall, it is also important, and I agree with the senator that here it has to be boarded up immediately. That is why this team at work I quoted earlier under Gisli's Gísli Gíslason and Anna Guðmunda Ingvarsdóttir, who, in fact, led the working group four years ago and did so with a big fight, I see that some of the nods who know about that work are familiar. So we expect something to come out of that work right now on the spring days that we can start to do. We don't have to wait for the policy and the synopsis before we move anything. Of course, having a complete policy to work hard is not just to achieve policy development in a short time and solve short - term problems; it is the key to solving long - term housing problems, creating balance, and thus, in reality, a major economic operation because of that, as well. A senator came on, and I'm not able to answer, that when the inflation blows up, it certainly affects the homes. Taking the mortgage away temporarily is something that would have been considered if it went out. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, let us also realize that some sort of measurement is needed, and the bank or capital owners will consider the loans in some other way and other criteria. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u77	Mr. President. I just want to talk about the climate because it's under the top. A minister is the language group that has the highest control over whether governments will succeed in the part of government emissions that are directly responsible for government transport. They're about one third of that disposal. We saw this in a report published yesterday by the United Nations International Commission that reports that a peak has to be reached no later than 2025 in emissions. After that time, it needs to be reduced. You see, there are a few details about future policy in this period of transport that are being pushed into the second half of the budget. A new network around the taxation of vehicles, driving, and all the practical devices that must be run to the bottom of the road in order to be successful will begin to be seen in two or three years. Isn't it too late? Why does the 2017 government first start with such tools 2023, 2024, and 2025? I was surprised to see in the chapter of another minister, in the section of university, industrial, and innovation, that there were goals for migrating transport emissions, which are excellent, the aims to be in financial programmes. But as far as I can see, these figures are all in terms of the old climate action programme, with a reduction in emissions of direct government responsibility at 29% after an agreement with the European Union, with a contract spoken of 55% reduction in these sectors. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why are new economic goals not taken into account?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for these questions. I remember, the senator corrects me, that when a transport program was last identified, it was not related to climate, and that, of course, we are working on a new transport program that will be better connected to the climate goals and projects there. Of course, we're still working on the old plan in this regard. I'd also like to say that we're in more areas working full on those climate targets. There are exciting things to form in the housing and organizational activities that depend on climate goals that will be seen in the coming days and weeks. Then you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator's problem grows and becomes increasingly urgent to come up with solutions to climate problems. As I said in my speech, I am optimistic but realistic, and it can be true about the climate goals as well. I have to form the belief that we will see in the energy exchanges in cars, i.e. that we'll be up-to-date with new energy cars getting used to the gas and diesel trucks. I also believe that what they thought was very far off, that would be long before energy exchange would be taken in flights, in ships, or in larger machines, that it is shorter than we thought before. So I'm pretty optimistic about it, but in that case, we're gonna need some new fuel, probably fuel. To me, there is no question, and actually becomes part of Iceland's independence struggle, that it makes us here in Iceland. That's why I wanted it to come. But all this is happening very fast, and we will definitely pick up this conversation again. The next financial program will undoubtedly give us clear directions on how we will reach them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u79	Mr. President. Yeah, it's the most true luxury. Minister I criticized that climate goals had not been one of the conditions assessed by the transport programmes of the last terms. But I did, too, because it was in the government covenant that all the larger plans of the State should be determined on the basis of the impacts on climate. It was just not done. This promise of the government covenant was not fulfilled. Now it seems to me that the same is true in an ambitious quest for emissions. The 55% contraction is not in this schedule. Here at the university, industrial, and innovation sector, it is said that transport greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland go down to 700 kilotons by carbon dioxide levels in 2027. This emissions are basically from all roads. We don't need fuel to solve the problem, it's just cars. If the 55% goal was to be maintained, the emissions would not have to go down to 700 but to 350 kilotons, of course, in 2030 years later, on a completely different scale. And I'm not talking about how we necessarily need to be here with our fully developed ideas in our hands, just plain and bright plans, but that our goals aren't in harmony with what the government in its work declaration says is its aim in climate matters, I think I'm easily confused. So I wonder, so I'm going to the Minister's chapter of my own but not always at the university, industrial and innovation minister, that there's a goal of decomposition in average greenhouse gas emissions from cars. That's what's most strongly related to these issues. I wondered if we also need goals - these could be called goals for energy change - whether we too need traffic targets, about the need to reduce the proportion of the land to reach the goals we have to reach.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u80	A respectable president. For the last thing, cutting back miles, of course, we're working on it in all sorts of wholesome ways in the transport system, shortening roads, building Dwrecks that will save 150,000 miles a day in the capital area, for example. So there are such factors that we must work on. But I disagree with the senator that this should be the main objective because the main objective must be to replace the fuel and diesel trucks. Then they can drive more. For example, one purpose is to negotiate with Iceland's rental business. It was at this time about 25,000 or 26,000 rental cars that I understood that there had been as many people as in Norway at the time, and it will probably increase rapidly because of the better way of handling travel. That would be, for example. Very noble goals. But then, at the same time, we need to build the wood around the country, and we have done well there. But I can totally agree with the senator that we need to do better in many areas. And finally, I want to say the same thing as mentioned in the previous talk that we do not necessarily have to wait for all our policies and goals. We can do a lot of things and get them on our way, even though they haven't all been drawn down because we are working very clearly toward the climate goals that are evident in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u81	A respectable president. It's just a little bit soon. I was still snooping out what I wanted to talk about. I want to thank you very much. Minister for his inputs and for those who have spoken before and for all day long, as well. What I just wanted to do is make up my subject now is the transport contract that was spoken earlier at the highest level. Minister of wood. In my opinion, it is one of the most important projects that Icelandic society is going to have in the decades ahead, nothing more complex than that. This is of utmost importance on the climate and the environment, up to the levels of time, on safety. Well, there's kind of every aspect underneath there. Now, though, it has been with this covenant that not all humans have walked in step. For example, the independent party in the capital area has a number of point points. As part of this covenant is being criticized for forming a city line, this attitude has been enhanced if something is now being held up, as is the case. A financial program shows that the city line is one of the carriers of this transport contract in the state and rurality of the capital area, and I wanted to enter the highest. A minister who is concerned about the fact that in this very part of the election, there may be more debate between the Holy Pharisees and there may be some risk that there will be no agreement on this type of work to go on in these years and farther into the future. Of course, we are talking about a considerable distance into the future. And as well as in the process, because now the advance team is trying to enter this campaign with the new people on the bridge, but we may not have heard anything clear about the position of the party in the capital area when it comes to the rural politics, for example, to the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for discussing the transport contract. I can agree with the senator that this is one of the more important works we have set up, as it may be, on the whole of transportation programs and on other major activities that are going on, on the South Coast, in order to find out more. Happily, during the last terms, the implementation of all rural society in the capital area, in addition to the government, was achieved by a 15-year structure contract at least 120 billion projects, which took on my unbearable position, agreed to do nothing for ten years, and the weight of traffic and the trunks had grown. I don't know if I'm supposed to believe that the entire communities would change their mind, even though some of their opinions are expressed in re-elections to qualify for their classes. Well, there's still a vote left. The locals will give their opinion. We have this assignment in great order. We started a business, better transport, with our communities, and our communities are involved. It will develop and talk about these things. So I don't want to take under the fear of a man. A senator says that individual rural communities are getting out of this very much the needs of a more upbuilding transport project. And with regard to our advance policy - and it's fun and right. A senator here says that we have a lot of new, powerful people running around in the capital area - of course, we have felt that it is the most reasonable thing to do in a variety of structure. That's the P.I.E.N. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u83	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer and review here. I can agree with a lot of what it said, and I agree that there's no way there's going to be some setback in this great structure planned here in the next few years in the capital area. Of course, this is of utmost importance, as it has been well over. But I also wanted to ask the highest question. Minister here in this discussion on the financial program of long term economic policies. I may have wanted to appeal only to what has been said by those who are now directing the country in the Covid epidemic. When growth began to drop a lot, there was a little talk, I'm going to let myself say a little recklessly, that here we were falling into some general low-growing environment that could be a long-term. Of course, interest rates are still low in historical context, but they are increasing, and considering how things are developing outside and in general, they can be quite expected to increase even considerably. Is not this financial strategy a little weaker with all the stirrs and uncertainty about the long - term prospects? I'd love to, too, if I may, to ask the highest question. The minister of the equation fund. The law says that it does not favor communities with more than 70,000 people from an equation fund. Many have interpreted this to be directly against the capital, since it is the only local society that will fail them precisely on that test, if we can put it that way. At the same time, Reykjavík takes on far more social projects than are other societies; there are many more children of foreign origin who have a foreign language other than the language of the country; yet it does not get money from this fund to balance the local community. I wondered, " What does this say about the priorities of the government when it comes to these matters? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u84	A respectable president. With an equation fund, if any. A senator is interested in realizing government policy: When income dropped substantially in the Covid era, we protect the exact income far beyond what the balance fund had the right to ensure the income of the rural society, especially for those in need of social support. We have more of these activities on social grounds for our communities. As we look at the budget and the forecasts there, we see that there is considerable growth in the income of an equation. If I recall correctly, they will be about 140 billion in the next five years, much more than in the last five years. So I think that all you can say is that the government and the government are quite handsome in terms of the equation fund. Why Reykjavík alone does not get these equation incomes, then, of course, is that when the basic school went to the countryside 25 years ago, it was arranged for the return to all rural society, and thus the capital, to pay for its expenses. The answer has gone a long way since then and as a result, income is also involved. Our calculations say that the city of Reykjavík did not serve a significant item. On the other hand, if you have any changes, like a dog. A senator mentioned, a large number of foreign residents with bilingual weight - I think it's called New York City, which is now not a beautiful word but is, I think, used, I've said that it can be taken into account and that it can be taken into account and that it can be negotiated. But we're changing the equation fund into even greater equation funds. Now I miss the opportunity to talk about growth and plans for the future, unfortunately, because that is one of the favorites. Until later, we must keep that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u85	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest part of the discussion here. Investigator on a matter I was going to inquire about tomorrow in unsubstantiated inquiries. Since it has something to do with the budget, I'm going to take this opportunity now. This focuses on how the Ministry answered ESA's letter in terms of financial payment and the development of social services in the upcoming city of Reykjavík, 70 billion applications. It may depend on how much this works. The minister answers, with reference to the letter, which had a final day after the last week's extension, asks me what the Ministry's position on the subject was ultimately. Is Reykjavík doing this properly and properly? Or is the situation where 70 billion provisions will exist in terms of their own financial resources?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This is a very technical and complex matter, and I'm not sure I can give the senator adequate answers here, but I'll be happy to share them at first convenient. It's not long since I had a meeting in the Ministry on these issues, since it has to do with two problems. That's when we were waiting for a year's annual response, which is business. There's been a problem in the past that this subject has been directed to the wrong ministry, but we've been trying to get the queries to the right place. During the day, I received a fine presentation on something quite complex, but it is not possible to say that the method of accounting that Reykjavík uses is not quite natural, provided that other things are in that way. Since this is under one of three laws, there is an interpretation of how they play together, annual accounts, rural laws, and then public financial laws. It's basically all about what the decision will be like. I'm just gonna be honest and say that I don't trust in giving the senator the answer he wants, yes, or no. I think it was requested every time because a letter had to be sent, but again, with their notice, I'll get this information to the senator and the council at the earliest convenient time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u87	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for answering this unsubstantiated inquiry on this occasion. I'm the highest. A minister to follow this case, since it is a very special situation if, as it were, 70 billion would be wiped out by the city's balance account overnight. If the result of misapplication has been made, there must be a view in favor of a local patrol committee and a possible impact on an equation fund. I encourage it to the highest. A minister to follow up on this matter and to give it proper attention. That's what I want to ask the highest. Minister to what I had a saying at the highest. Secretary of finance in the discussion earlier today. It raised opinions and speculations about the need to make changes in the laws on public finances in order to improve flexibility in public projects. This applies to new projects, such as the building of nursing homes and the rest of the streets. That was clearly seen in the answer from the highest. Unfortunately, a minister I received from my inquiry during the previous day that my expenses for the past few years were somewhat modest, compared with what was to form during the period between 2000-◯2003 to 2008◯2009, something like that, and then the collapse of the year. Yet, the current value of the new enterprise is much lower than that of the weather. I'm not saying that it was with no one's will to complicate or fake it. Of course, it's part of the problem that humans cannot get along with the project. [[The president calls.]] What's the big deal? To achieve the official investment, a minister makes a living in that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very interesting inquiry. It is a bit our problem that as the transfer system has taken on more control, there has been less room for investment, especially over the past few years, perhaps not all the years before. At the same time, the public investments as a whole have been considerable and kind of leftover at the A-part State Fund in investments. Thus, in my mind, it has been of great importance during the last term that we find ways to finance transportation outside the box or other than the traditional financing and transportation programs, as set out in the European Treaty, in line with the European Treaty, as we have been talking about. These paths are very important, and I agree with them. A senator's success toward investment and thus the construction process is now much lower than in those good years, during the first decade of this century, and he actually ended in 2010, where work was abandoned thereafter. Then came many lean years, and we kind of still owe, both in maintenance and in investment. We're still working up that slope. The investments we run through because of Covid helped us greatly to achieve this successful transport level, but when they escape, we go into a financial programme where our donations are too low. To be sure, these factors can be added, along with the cohesion, the capital contract, the landway, and the Sunway, and the process is higher than ever, a project that we need to consider at the council how we can raise the state's investment and construction level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u89	Madam President. In short, I'm explaining the financial programme for the 20233/42/2027 regarding the topic fields under Foreign Minister, topic area 4, foreign languages, and 35 international development cooperation. The future view of foreign services is that national and national interests are guaranteed, and Iceland contributes to the prosperity worldwide. Over the next few years, the Ministry will base its activities on the emphasis on a powerful international work, a green future, and a new creation where human rights are foreordained. It is a real challenge to deal with the many assignments and priorities of foreign service within the framework set out in it. It has so far, however, been achieved by showing confidentiality and flexibility to meet unexpected events. The EEA is the most important international cooperation site in foreign trade and must continue to care for it. In addition, it is also important to take care of the interests of most friends and colleagues, e.g. United States and Britain, making sure that they are safe and successful. There should be a continuous review of two - side communication, as shown by the planned opening of a embassy in Poland. We are facing new challenges to security and protection. War in Ukraine poses the most serious threat to safety and peace in Europe from the end of World War II. There is a growing need for vigilance and action because of so - called multivariate issues. The premise that rapid changes can be faced in our environment is to ensure the ability to react, including to improve safe communication with our immediate cooperation states and to support Iceland's defense programmes. During the pandemic season, powerful civil services have proved their worth, and we also stand before the Icelandic economy application following Covid-19. The Ministry's Department's Business Department provides services to be exported with the aim of providing increased exports and more efficient markets abroad. In 2020, donations for the topic field 4 are expected to drop from 15.8 billion to 13.4 billion. This is mainly explained by the fact that the European Union has not completed a new EEA building programme and reflects the financial programme thus reducing the budget as projects on the basis of the current fund's completion. The contractions don't exceed 2 billion. between the years 20231⁄2024, but it can be assumed to be reversible to some extent when a new programme will be submitted to the Member States' contributions to the fund. The general holding volume is 550 billion. K. During the season, it will be added to each year's budget. Substitution to temporary projects, the management of Iceland's Council of Europe and Iceland's estate in UNESCO, explains a reduction of more than 270 million in the period. In turn, contributions to various projects, such as premeditated by the Norwegian Ministers and the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. In addition, contributions for safety and protection are expected to increase over 500 million in the period. K. on a yearly basis to meet the costs of defense-related projects, such as various projects in the Keflavík security area, signal-reporting posts, necessary maintenance projects to further the national communications services, support for reliable communication between Iceland and collaborated nations, production of secure communications, to meet the loss of income in the security area of Helga and to the management of the networks and to react to the multivariate. In the field of 35 international development cooperation, the ratio of total progress to development of gross national income is expected to be 0.35% out of the duration of the programme. Substantial contributions to the topic area are increasing, in accordance with predictions of gross national income from over 11.5 billion next year to over 14.5 billion in 2027, similar to that observed, i.e. total contributions to international development cooperation, of developing interconnected costs at the hands of other schemes. We are working on a global development team until 2023, and then we reexamine it. Iceland operates on development cooperation through two-way partnerships, individual countries, regional cooperation, etc. Again, we stress human rights, equality and sustainable development. The Government Treaty emphasizes climate and the use of contributions to provide intensive cooperation with major international institutions working to achieve the global objectives of the United Nations and the decisions of the Paris Convention. - There's a lot of things I would've wanted to go over but I can't get in, but I guess there's something that's gonna be asked about. A respectable president. Many of the world's challenges are faced, especially in the wake of a pandemic that was badly affected by the poorest countries. We add ourselves to the scales to further the world with a powerful support for humanitarian matters. In particular, these include life - saving help and support to improve the survival of refugees, such as Afghanistan, Yemen, and Ukraine, and will continue to be a very important part of our work in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u90	Madam President. V.E.G. In recent times, a minister has done well, but I simply miss more ambition when it comes to making the world a better and safer place. Clearly, the pandemic has touched the most vulnerable groups in the world, and the United Nations predicts that about 275 million people need humanitarian assistance and protection in 2022. At that time, it is inconceivable that vaccine will exaggerate these developments and the Ukraine war without fail. The rise in global market prices on food will also have negative effects. Poor countries are also more sensitive to the climate change we are dealing with, although they certainly have much less responsibility than we industrialized people. So for the first time, we look at the world's increasing poverty, and it will increase if nothing has to be done. In that light, I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of state 11th of the world's richest country whether or not to do more in developing cooperation. Icelanders pay 0.35% of the gross national product, which is exactly twice the goal of the United Nations that we support. In comparison, the contribution of Sweden to 1.1%, Norway 1% and Denmark is 0.8%, and in terms of financial management, there is nothing to change and there will be no improvement. It's under the roof. Our minister of foreign affairs is appropriate, not even halfheartedly applicable to our cousins? And do we not agree that this prolonged conflict and the negative impact of climate change will have a negative impact on world peace prospects? And are there really no better plans than to replace the next four or five years?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u91	Madam President. I agree with what. Einarsson When he says and asks if the 11th richest country should enter and be a real nation among nations and over an average of developing cooperation. However, I am happy to see that money has increased in the developing metropolitan environment and the press class. However, over the average value of GDP is 0.35% within OECD, but I'm not going to argue with it. A senator to see if we should have more ambition than that. At least we are on the right track when it comes to making money. However, we simply face uncertainty in general, in security and defenses, in climates, in food production, in food security, after a pandemic, increased famine, etc., and I'd rather expect we'll have to give more than that we'll have to give in because it's what's right to do, but it'll just change so much that we'll have to rethink a lot of things. If we are going to have to rethink it, we have the opportunity to do this in a revised financial program or next year's update. Whether or not I'm not going to tell you about this. But it is clear that uncertainty is not reducing the world, and we have a role. Though we are few in number, we are nations, and we want to do well, and we do well. But I don't disagree. A senator says we can do more than that. At least, though, we are on the right track in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u92	Madam President. Right now, the very role of financial programs is to try to anticipate time and to collect documents from the council, not to get fired and then to come back for the money. I asked the highest. Secretary of finance a few days ago on expenses that are definitely about to appear to us, including ... froma reception of refugees from Ukraine. OECD has estimated that this may cost Europe 0.25% of the gross domestic product. In Iceland, that's about 7 billion bucks. each year or two thirds of what goes on in Iceland's development partnership. In spite of this, there is no financial agenda. Second, I asked a secretary about Internet security because we are the people of the world who are no. 1 when using Internet, phones, and such devices, but no. 67, reminds me, on the list of most secure countries. It's obvious that these matters need to be done better, and it took just 20 hours from the time we had a word exchange here, me and the minister of finance, until the time of the Supreme Court. The prime minister came from a meeting outside and offered additional donations for the Internet security. I welcomed that. But where's that money in the financial program? There's nowhere to go. We're not talking about twenty-fifty, and we're not talking about 3,500 bucks, we're talking about a few billion that needs to be done on this project. Is it not much normal for the European Commission to accept a national administration directive, which consists of developing a plan, coming in here to the council, we agree and it goes back and act, instead of the process that has been overworked, that financial programmes are only forwarded year after year, and so is what goes on after?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u93	Madam President. In the implementation of financial programmes, I stressed that additional funds should be placed in security and protection projects, and the network security is then falling. It is true that the Internet security issues are not fully heard by the Ministry of State, they are also under the Department of Communication, and even a small part of the Ministry of Justice, and so is there other areas of the government where we need to ensure that the right is being handled, and there is a National Security Council, such as one component. I agree with what. A senator in terms of growth in demand, at least additional emphasis and synchronization, and likely both the use of tools and knowledge when it comes to Internet security. It is a growing threat, not just because of the present situation, and we need to be better aware of it. We are too low on list, and we also need to determine exactly how countries are organized there, but we should set higher goals. It doesn't all stand and fall with money, but it's clear that it requires more money. It also requires systems, control systems, institutions, etc. Working together and increasing our expertise. It is our responsibility to make sure that our Internet security is okay. It is a domestic issue, though it is part of a multitask, and there is a great worldwide cooperation in it too. We have been making the right decisions, such as being involved in both the Tallinn and the Helsinki mansion, which is of great importance to us. I'm glad that additional funds are placed on a security and protective project that we then implement and try to make the most of the usefulness of the Internet security. Then we need a little more stringing up in the system, so we're getting more results.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u94	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for having a word with us about the financial program. In view of the global events now taking place, defenses and security issues are being carefully planned here on land as well as in the Western world. There is no need to comment on the importance of national security, especially under the circumstances that have developed. It can be said that the Russian invasion and their takeover of the Crimea were a turning point. Yet, we must not forget that the Russians had previously conquered Chechnya and had also invaded Georgia. We saw them driving through the Chefavour Airport and along the defensive zone following the invasion of the Crimea as to how the continent's security issues were changing. In Ukraine, however, a total war has begun. Sadly, in these last days, we have seen in our own eyes pictures of the horrors of the Russian military in which they are retreating from the places they carried out at the beginning of the war, the terrible things that can be described by words that can hardly be called just war crimes. The effects of the war in eastern Europe, a respected president, are global, but our security and security issues, which, of course, are of course, very important to the nation of the north. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of State to see if there was any pressure from our fellow workers, including In NATO, we would do more to defend ourselves than we are doing as an armyless nation and see if they can see in the context of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u95	Madam President. Hv. A senator here asks a question that is a very good price on whether it is emphasized by our friends and partners whether we contribute more for security and protection. Really, that question can be answered without question. We often talk about being on a boat when it comes to the NATO Union because we're unarmed, but that doesn't make any difference because we're supposed to ask ourselves, " Can I do more when it comes to security and protection, not only to our safety here but also to as real participants and stock members in the Atlantic Alliance, a role that we both take seriously and matter to us? ' In that sense the answer to that question is yes to me. Therefore, I am happy to see that there were more money available and we see increases in security and protection, which are not limited to Internet security, but also in other defense-related projects, such as strengthening safe communication between Iceland and collaborating countries, setting up a secure communication system, meeting a drop in the operation of a security area in Helga, and reacting to the multi-counter population, as well as when it comes to a signaling campaign. Then there are projects, both maintenance projects and building projects, and even new projects, as Americans, on the basis of our defense agreement with the United States. We ourselves are making an investment to increase the number of accommodations in the area. Then there is a question that may not necessarily involve a war in Ukraine but has already existed, but everyone is reevaluating his case, including the Atlantic alliance, alliances, the United States, ourselves, and we are to be fearless about doing so, revising, asking ourselves, " What are we going to do in this cooperation? ' We've got it up to the point that we're in a strategical very important area. [[The president calls.]] We got air support, submarine control, stuff like that. We have a very important infrastructure that we should keep up with, but we should also accept if it is important for us to make further investments in the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u96	Madam President. I'd like to thank the secretary of state for the answer and be happy to agree that in this financial programme there is expected to be an increase in security and defense, including About 300 million next year, which are designed to sustain defence workers to meet the international commitments of Iceland. The main objective of this, of course, is to ensure our country's defenses in good cooperation with our friends. It seems to me that our alliances are expected to increase by 20% during the planned period. Still, you may wonder about the future, and of course, this is the basis for the future that we regularly revised here. Therefore, perhaps I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to ask the Minister, if it came to our alliances would wish to form a more permanent presence here, if there was anything we would look to in our own cost of doing so. Then, in the end, I also want to thank the minister for her efforts and work in the last days of difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u97	Madam President. Thank you. Senator speaking. First, to answer, there is little debate as to whether a fixed presence is needed, as before, by the U.S. Army on land or by others, but we see that the situation has increased to some extent and the situation is larger from friends and alliances. In my mind, it is clear that at least we need to go through carefully whether more is needed. If there's a warrant for going to some structure, maintenance project, or investment that is considered important, I'll say that it's our cold interests to go through whether it matters, not only for the safety of our citizens here, but again as an alliance in the Atlantic Alliance. In the Defense Act, security and protection issues are defined as issues involved in the cooperation of Iceland with other countries and international bodies of national defences as well as from other dangers and threats affecting the Icelandic people and the Icelandic Precinct areas, which originate in international society. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I'm in charge of defense and the execution of the Defense Act. We have a very important role, and it has a heavy responsibility, such as making a high risk assessment of defenses and shapes and implementing international security and defence policy. All I'm saying is that when we see the countries reevaluating their positions, passing through all their food, the majority of them being greatly increasing in defense-related projects, we should make our own decision of it, both of us here to our citizens, but also ours as a member state of cooperation and friendship and alliance. I believe it will result in further progress and further investments, both on our part and on our friends and on the people of the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u98	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for being here, we discussed this financial program. I'd like to discuss the subject of development cooperation, but as mentioned earlier tonight, it has been decided that 0.35% of GDP will go to development. What a joy it is to see it up to 0.35, even though we may have wanted to see it increase further in the period toward 0.7% of the goal set by OECD! At this level, the cost of landing refugees falls, and we are faced with probably one of the most humanitarian acts in the last few decades when we welcome people away from the war in Ukraine. To give us a little idea of size, Iceland arrived in the first 872 takeover, but within the last few months since the war began over 650 came. This wave of people means that this requires large financial support for these factors, probably both this and the next year. My question to the highest. The minister is: Will this cost lead to cutting off another development team, such as two - sided and regional development teamwork or to the task of retrieving special funds to cope with this unique and frightening situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u99	Madam President. Hv. A senator came into the heart of an issue when the time came for us to face a major challenge in welcoming people from Ukraine. Even now, some 600 people have applied for international protection, but we also know that there are more here that have not yet done so, perhaps the part that thinks that they have a chance to come back or to do it later. It may also reflect how we are receiving the people when they are clearly opening homes and doors for the blessed people who come here. At the same time, not just because of a Covid-19 world epidemic, not just because of climate change, but even if we look at the consequences of this situation in Ukraine, we know that the need and need for assistance in developing countries will be greater. I will fight that it will not be all taken - if we aim to see that there is perhaps 20% of this expense, which is so-called DAC-rich costs, which is what could be taken of the development cooperation funds that are now in a financial programme -- within the scope of which I know that 0.35% is the sum that is very well spent on an extremely important project all over the world. I don't think it's fair to those projects and people if we do them and the situation is so now that I think we need to be very humble about the changes that might take place and the urgent things that will happen to us. I think it is very important that we have confidence and make it our own desire to be a real nation among the nations in the way we react to our situation and the increasing bad conditions that far too many people around the world have to face in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u100	I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister for the answer and tell you that I at least... will fight against her side to make sure that these funds are obtained. I'd like to discuss the matter of foreign affairs only because it's the other group of litigators. Minister will follow. The financial program describes green futures and innovations as the basis for the work of foreign service in the years to come. The program then discusses how these include. in active participation in international institutions, which are involved in greening and climate development, and very pleasant to see also on the funding of climate-related projects in developing countries. What I may have felt was missing is a little discussion about what was in the area of the highest. Minister for last terms, i.e. innovation. I've discussed in the Public Assembly that when it comes to green innovation, I see a great opportunity, when it comes to applying them creative branches and the ingenuity here and the knowledge of working on green solutions and even the like. can be taken from abroad even large amounts of money can be taken to create innovation here in a land connected with a green future and climate. As a result, Madam President, I would like to ask the highest question. Minister how Ministers predict that the Ministry of State will employ green innovation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u101	Madam President. I agree with what. Senator. We've discussed here that there is an enormous opportunity for Icelandic intelligence, Icelandic company, big and small, when it comes to their solution, which can be of enormous importance to people, territories and countries, both in general but in international development cooperation. In that sense, both parties work and in the process of climate work. We have had specific priorities such as the use of geoenergy and renewable energy, the sustainable use of marine and water resources, sustainable land use and equivalents. We're using developing cooperation funds to do this, including some of them. In the UN International Climate Fund, Correction Fund, UN Convention on Action Against Deserts and Sustainable Energy for All, etc. We also have counseling that we give to international institutions and train experts through the Theocratic Ministry School, which, of course, is of great importance but is of great importance because we are producing ambassadors and helping people, helping the territory to help themselves by teaching people who return home. But it is certainly possible for us to do better in this regard, and that has been the case with the past years. I have stressed that all foreign services have to make a great deal of practice and that it is important to wear your innovation glasses every day on any project, whether it is a part of foreign service or in all other projects; development teamwork, foreign exchange, Iceland Office, international community service, etc. We have many fine examples of this material, but it is certainly possible to do better in it, especially if this is true of the whole creation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u102	Madam President. Now it would have been nice to have three hands. Thank you very much. A minister of prehistoric language party, and there are certainly many things to take and many that could be discussed. I would like to continue on this first opportunity I have to ask a minister and discuss development cooperation because, first of all, I am very happy that we are raising our donations. I think it's really important, but I think it needs to be increased even further, the world just needs it. I'd like to welcome special words from a minister in another conversation with you. A member of Congress on the fact that the Minister will defend 0.355% and perhaps not count all that would be technically possible as DAC costs. I think it really matters a lot in the condition we are in right now to make sure that the money goes out of the country at the same time that we do well here at home. What I would like to ask about is development teamwork and the aftereffects of women who have sadly gone back around the world, and if they are working on how to get back to the place where we were before the epidemic. I think we have a lot of publicity because our developing team is so good. We're doing something so important. But I think that, in addition to what we're doing right now, we need to look to the effect that Covid has already had.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u103	Madam President. I agree with what you're saying. Senator. We'll have to do more. I also agree with her when it comes to this, of course, it's a good thing that we've been raising money in developing cooperation. It's very good, and it's a big increase in no longer time. But we also know that developing countries had some role in it, and of course, Covid-19 is the major party when it comes to our taking steps backwards. The status of women, the position of young girls when it comes to marriage and access to school, the availability of children to school, hunger, poverty barriers, and all of these are steps behind which we will have to work. Then we look at the situation now and think: What will happen for the next few weeks, months, and miss when we see not only the possibility of a real failure when it comes to food production but also the high cost that those countries simply cannot afford? What will be the result in that territory, and what role do we have there? So it's not just that we have to get back the setback we experienced in Covid-19, but I'm afraid that it's building on top of the problems and challenges we face in the world and especially in developing countries. Generally, they are less able to cope with instability than we are. Therefore, again I repeat that we need to be a nation among nations, and we need to show how things can be done. We have so many fine examples in which we show that things can be done in ways that are different from what has been done or that many others do, and we are to build on it, based on our uniqueness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u104	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Since I know it's going to win a new development team for Iceland, I hope to the highest. A minister follows the factors she has been talking about. As I said before, we're doing quite well what we're doing in the development team, and we've had an enormous interest in women's rights. I think the best way to ensure gender and equality is, in fact, to ensure world peace. It is important to discuss that matter, especially when conflict rages, because we know how important it is to end conflict and to help bring peaceful solutions to the maximum speed. Here in the financial program, there's only a matter that I think is very important, and we need to discuss more, it's international commitments in the area of disarmament and the arms restrictions. Of course, it has been terrible to listen to the fact that Russia has spoken about the use of nuclear weapons. It's naturally completely unacceptable. There are too many countries with nuclear weapons, and unfortunately, international authorities have undermined disarmament issues. I want to go to the highest. A minister may decide whether she will no doubt work on this matter, which is just part of her schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u105	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this factor forward here and he needs it. Iceland's decision on disarmament is clear and based on legal security policy for Iceland, which makes it clear that Iceland is using international disarmament. Unfortunately, in this matter, like others, we are not exactly on the right track. Rather, we seem to be driving into a ditch and listening to leaders in the states not far from our speaking, as they have spoken during the past few weeks, in some way it is absolutely incredible that it is a lawsuit in 2022. That is the position of the government. On that foundation is won, including in the United Nations, the SE, and the Atlantic Community, as well as in the treaties of Iceland, such as the NPT Convention on Nuclear Prohibition. I promise to work hard to see that we both speak clearly and support good suggestions and are not in the way, and there is no need to question where we are. The crippling situation of Russia's invasion in Ukraine has already upset disarmament agreements, especially those involved in mass destruction. Nuclear weapons, even toxic weapons, and chemical weapons are part of the Russian military threat. In such a situation, the need for material discussions over disarmament is urgent. This is the cycle of gambling that comes in when important decisions are made, as the Russian authorities did at the end of February. The point is that when the situation involves threatening or threatening, it is harder to get results in contracts. Then we have farther to shore, and as long as we're farther to shore, there's a greater chance of war and less peace. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we talk clearly, and I will do what I can to make these matters right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u106	Madam President. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is the largest military intervention in Europe since World War II. Of course, we all know this. There are no words that describe disasters that the Ukrainians experience, and we have a moral obligation to support them, but we also need to consider our own safety. If the Russians are able to change their rules in the international field, where does their own country stand? All our interests depend on other nations, larger and more important, following the rules that have been established in national relations. That is why we stated in Relations that contributions to the International Court of Justice would be raised in order to improve the impact of Russian war crimes. It is very important that we feel that this proposal will have a course in the majority of the council. As a matter of fact, it is a concern that the contractual contributions due to international cooperation dropped considerably during the period of the programme. Under that category, the criminal court is supported, but in a financial program, it is no longer divided where the cutting is done. That is why I would like to ask what changes we can expect from Iceland's donations to the International Court of Justice this year and from the time of financial programmes. And then: Defense contributions are also increasing during the period that is important in this situation that we now live in, the whole world. On the other hand, there are also some factors that decrease. The State Department's presentation of the plan is 100 million. K. increase in defense donations in 2024 and 16 million. K. reduction of signed donations for defense. One of these sums sounds very public, and the other very specific, with regard to both the sum and the expenses. That is why I would like to request further explanation from the highest level. Secretary of state on these teams.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u107	Madam President. In fact, we have time to set priorities and weigh priorities on what is most important when it comes to special support for that cooperation and the factors. A senator mentions. The fact that we have the subject field, in some way, can be said to be that it will naturally list and further divide it into budgets and then simply with the contracts and distributions that we make over the year. Sixteen million. K. The reduction in negotiated budgets for defense; this is a reduction on the basis of a contract of two- side protection work with the United States and involvement in the Atlantic Community. I do not have much concern that we are not able to care for what we want and need to take care of the factors we face. A senator goes over here. Certainly I just say that in it as well as in other matters, when the situation is as vague and uncertain as it is, it may also come to the point that it will simply become a new project that we will have to respond to to in order to do what we think is necessary to do and what is required of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u108	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of State for the Answer, and he wanted my second speech to go in other ways. There has been some talk since the outbreak of the invasion, with reference to how the Russian ambassador of the United States has spoken in the media and used himself and reported a lot of things, whether to dismiss him from the country. I wanted to go to the highest. In view of the situation we face, a minister will decide whether to increase weight in that discussion. The Russians are retreating from one battle to another, and we are looking at how life is cut out of innocent citizens, not by dozens, but by hundreds, all of them as pathetic as possible and cannot be described by words of what a terrible situation confronts us there. I would like to ask if this calls for a stronger diplomatic action when it comes to the Russians and their presence on the land of the embassy and what the consequences might be. If the highest. A minister might come into it for a moment. Besides, I wanted to ask a few questions, because there's a good deal of talk about White-Russa, Moshensky, in the coverage I know of. Minister knows very well in the media. It has then been said whether Icelanders promoted the lack of a list of economic pressure. We've had a lot of discussions about who our economic interests are in relation to an election attorney, but I wanted to ask if this particular district attorney had to do some civilian work or some civilian service to the White Russia people, because we've always been looking at this because of business interests, whether the other interests were actually important in the years in the Republic of Washington, Russia, when it comes to the voter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u109	Madam President. I understand that when people call for it, they ask: "How can it be that the Russian ambassador sits here in the capital of the country and attend media interviews and talks in the way he does, and we have this diplomatic interaction with Russia? We now see an increase in the weight of neighboring countries that are sending emissaries home. No nation of friends and alliances has lost political ties with Russia. Lithuania and I understand that Latvia has also sent the ambassador home, but no political relationship has been terminated, and other countries have been sending workers home. However, we are in a position to have a small number of employees. The Russian embassy has a small number of employees, but I'm suggesting that we ourselves have a small number of employees in Moscow. If we make such a decision, we can assume that it will be the answer to the question, in effect, that we will actually be in a position to be in almost an unattainable embassy according to the scale of such a decision. Then we must weigh it and appreciate it because we have certain responsibilities toward our citizens, including those of our own household. Our citizens in Russia. I've simply not excluded anything in that regard. This discussion may require more weight, and I have listened to it and found it to be normal and in many ways just helpful and helpful. We should be able to answer that question and stay on our toes when it comes to how these matters develop. To answer the second question, why? And I know that there was a certain parable, where the counseller helped a citizen in the country, (i.e. That's what I'm talking about. A senator specifically asks. Some cases have caused him to be involved in such assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u110	A respectable president. During the 1990's, at his beginning, about 1993, the total of 1,300 million foreign services and the development team of 1,300 million dollars, some of which contain a total of 3 million earmarked cultures, some of which are 0.3% of the total amount of the Ministry. The three main provisions of foreign service under law are the political economics that the ambassadors always do, the business as a business manager always do their business, and the cultural issues of the cultural council or other diplomats. Now we have contributions to foreign service in numbers, of course taking into account all things, the largest if not more, the twentyfold. Compared to what I mentioned earlier, this third foundation has been reduced to about half, perhaps half. In view of the fact that the ideas and culture are probably what Icelanders are best known by everything we've done here, I wonder if it's the highest. A minister of foreign affairs may agree that this third and least could be added, so in financial context, so that we can expand our business, the important activities of foreign service, country and nation for good and artists throughout Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u111	Madam President. Thank you. A member of the council these questions and meditations that we have discussed in the past, and I agree entirely with them. We have a lot of work to do in culture and art through the foreign service, especially the embassy. The embassies have been enormously valuable to culture and art. They're opening doors for this party. Besides all the events that are there, which can then be used by Icelandic culture and art to be involved, they're also just a platform, it's a field for our partners to go elsewhere. Then, too, we have a full cooperation with the National Institute of Iceland, and they have been focusing on art and creative articles. Of course, art and creative articles play a major role in creating an image and outlook on land and nation. This new government and Icelandic agreement for the marketing project Creative Iceland has a turning point in a presentation of Icelandic culture abroad. We're making 90 million. K. Each year until 2025. This can be done in a much larger presentation than ever before. So we're actually taking a new and bigger step and also making plans for a longer time because it's a long-term deal. Here we are promoting targeted policies and agreements between government, Iceland, Central Street lists and creative articles and professionals. Just to mention, since I have 15 seconds left, we have almost 150 cultural events this year through our emissaries, which are naturally not in all countries. So we are to do more, and we are to move forward. We're doing it. It does more than just reflect and clarifies our own soul. It also brings it forth to other nations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u112	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for the answer. I'm putting these matters into context with the fact of the highest order. Secretary of finance informed us about earlier today that about 10% of our exports can be attributed to imagination. No doubt a higher number could be produced if different calculators were used there. So, of course, more than what we called literature and cultural products is involved. We have a somewhat unusual and powerful setting for creative articles. In both music production, audio recordings, and the movie sector, I give you a reimbursement system. I mention the legislation that went into force on January 1, 2020, when intellectual works, English, were placed in equal force with another holding rights in Iceland, such as ◯real property, or real estate, i.e. the use of ideas now, first of the world's nations here in Iceland, 22% capital tax instead of 47% income tax. This is really great news that is gradually spreading throughout the world. It's really an offensive. This is an assignment for foreign service and Iceland to introduce this. Also behind these occasions are the hidden opportunities of land production and tourism growth, as we are well acquainted with many examples. Therefore, I feel that there is good reason to give in here and ask if the minister could stress this further on the next semester.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u113	Madam President. I mention again that there is an enormous opportunity for us to move forward. The arrangement. A senator mentions a reimbursement when it comes to recording, the first time we were in the world to build that system. Although it has certainly started slowly, as normal, it is growing. I know that we had a presentation, at the Stockholm embassy office, that I believe, when it comes to movie recitals and recordings. There, dozens of visitors, both in an effort to learn and to show interest. I'm sure that out of that, there are other relationships. So I think that based on hard economic facts, economic factors, we should move out there, but perhaps as far as presenting the worth of what it is worth, to have strong artists, to have strong cultures, and also, as becomes more important and more important than we see, that we can talk from what value it is to just live in a free society. How does making bad works or saying things that are foolish affect culture and art? What are real art, artists, free thinking, and creative, which are the opposition to the destructive power that we now behold? It's not just because it's economically wise, it's also because it's human. It reflects well the kind of society we live in and we want to live in and for what we want to stand for. I also feel that it goes well with the core of our foreign policy and how Iceland should speak internationally.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u114	V.E.G. President. In the Treaty of this government, climate issues are put first. The challenge of climate change is emphasized by contraction of emissions, energy exchanges, and green investments. The objective of Iceland is to achieve a non-carbon share of carbon and final energy exchanges as late as the year 2040, with the first state being independent of fossil fuels. Energy exchange is a major factor in Iceland's contribution to the challenge of climate change while strengthening the economic situation and taking the lead in international energy exchange. A climate operation program is the principal tool of the government in fighting the climate problem. Action under a climate management programme involves many areas of subject matter and requires extensive cooperation with many advisers. The actions include hiding. in himself willpower and strength, infrastructure, adjustment of law, education, and innovation. Here we weigh the weightier uses of eco-friendly vehicles, energy exchange infrastructure, electricisation rejection, marine energy exchanges, carbon-bindings, land-emission reductions, and cooperation with farmers on climate-based agriculture. The proposed targets for the expected reductions in emissions associated with the actions as well as funding where appropriate and measures due to the impact of climate change in Iceland have been set up. Other topic areas have also set out targets and measures related to climate, such as transport and energy. An action program is a living program that will be reviewed regularly for new objectives and effectiveness but it is assumed that from the next year all 50 measures in the government Action Programme will be fully implemented. Increased contributions to climate in this financial programme, including for greenhouse gases binding and contracting, of course, the total amount of about 1.6 billion. During the period between the 15 and 17, which includes 800 million. K. to support Iceland's commitments to the Kyoto Protocol for the second commitment period of 2013-2020, but according to the EEA's calculations, some 4 million tons of CO-2 will be missing to Iceland's commitment. Over the past few years, environmental protection has been under way, and the extent of peace-lit areas has increased considerably. There are future management and protection programmes for these areas, but such plans shape future vision and policy for the protection of areas and how to maintain their protection. The Government Treaty emphasizes the support of rural society to improve the state of irrigation so that it meets the highest natural protection standards throughout the country, but the proportion of people who live in adequate sewage work needs to be increased. This financial program accounts for 3.2 billion dollars. Community support for the project, but rural communities can apply for funding to meet part of the cost of irrigation. The target is that the proportion of purified waste be reached by 95% in 2027, which is today about 81%. The action of the cycle economy, which consists of responsible production and consumption, must continue to be ensured and reduced waste management by preventing waste generation and helping to improve its treatment by recycling and recycling. This year it will be about 500 million. K. spent time in the economy. It provides the largest incentive to sustain infrastructure, innovation, and development on the basis of waste management policies. In all, during a financial period, 1.8 billion will be updating the economy. Energy issues are climate issues. Energy security has to be ensured for all the people of the country so that there will be a national equilibrium between supply and demand for electricity. This balance is calculated by the late financial agenda. Increased share of renewable energy in Iceland's energy supply has to be achieved in transport and intensive activities, and this ratio is targeted at the end of the programme in 16% for transport and 5% for marine activities, but this proportion is consistent with climate change. It should be noted that two law-employed cables submitted at the General Assembly and that there will be increased energy security. On the one hand, there is a bill for changing the law on house warming costs, with the aim of allowing the speed of development for improved energy efficiency due to house warming in cold areas and, on the other, a bill for changing the laws on the protection and energy efficiency programmes with the aim of allowing the technical expansion of mechanisms that are already in operation without the update having to go through the protection and energy efficiency programme. V.E.G. President. This is in very short terms the key lines of the subject matter under my attention. Of course, I rejoice to have an opportunity to have a conversation with the members of the council about a few details below.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u115	Madam President. Thank you very much. Environment, energy, and climate ministers before their brief review here. Now I'm trying to figure out the budget frame for the budget and it seems to me that the frame is reduced or reduced by 400 million. K. the real value in the next five years. It is clear that we need to invest fully in all aspects of greenhouse gas recession, energy exchange at the highest level. The minister will be talking about everything that contributes to the contraction of greenhouse gas emissions and prevent disaster warming so that we do not exceed 1.5 °C in this century. But am I right, Madam President, that this is a reduction in reality? There may be some forward movement here, but I would have thought that in this very financial program of the government, which is to apply from 2023 wrote2027, there should be an enormous increase in the subject field at the highest level. Minister to ensure that our objectives on climate will be met, as well as other issues under the minister, environment and nature protection. I hope to the highest. Ministers can answer this, but I have to admit that I find it hard to figure out this position in the books that are relevant to his Ministry of the Plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u116	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the queries. I think there are a few things we need, anyway, in my mind, to discuss. First, the big thing is we're gonna be successful. I'll bet you I've found the discussion when it comes to these matters, especially the climate, still be in the place where we're thinking about some extraordinary financial help. Of course, it is necessary now, but the results will not be measured. It's not like that, and this case is going to be made up that we're going to say that this was up to a budget X. This is not how we measure the results. This will be recommended if we can reduce emissions and therefore achieve the success that we are going to achieve in cooperation with other nations. I'm hoping we'll get to the point where we'll talk things out of it. Let's just look at things just as they are. We have ambitious goals. We have an operation plan with some 50 teams. I'm not making any comments to the suggestion that is there, not at all, but we're starting a certain road that's going to make a lot of changes. If we need funding, and I think there's a chance that we'll never put enough money into it, we need to add. On the other hand, the big issue is that we will be successful in our major objective, and we need to get out of the discussion and in the process of carrying out it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u117	Madam President. I'm sorry, sir, but the Supreme Court confirmed. My minister has suspected that this was a reduction in reality. I understand what the Minister says when he speaks of success and that it is most important that we reach our climate goals. But I'd like to point out, Madam President, that everyone who is going to be successful in climate, real - life reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, is spending a huge amount of money on all the procedures you have to take in one country to achieve your success, whether in transportation, in agriculture, in electrical recovery, or otherwise. In fact, all innovations, all public investments, should have the primary objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to the primary objective. I'm not necessarily sure that we are the highest. Ministers disagree with this, but I'm concerned if the operation plan such as this is an instrument I thought was such a tool that the government would have agreed to use, but not necessarily the main thing and not necessarily the main thing to spend the money on projects and investments needed. Of course, I don't belittle it takes investments in the private sector too, of course they need them too. But it will always be that way that the government must lead this assignment. That's the way it is in our neighboring countries, and that's how it must be here too. I think that by just talking about the results, we are actually getting out of the discussion about the actions that are absolutely necessary to attack here on the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u118	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Increased contributions to climate in this financial programme, including for greenhouse gases binding and contracting, of course, the total amount of about 1.6 billion. During the period in the field of topic range 15◯17. Then there are other aspects of the topic field. We're just talking about the climate. But I thought it was a problem. When a senator pointed out that all aspects of national life are involved, he meets the nail. Hv. A senator referred to a new creation. Hv. A senator referred to energy. Hv. A senator referred to transportation. Hv. A senator could have continued building. I was disappointed to see that the new building of our entire councilmen here was not entirely thought of on that basis. But I'll take just one example. This financial program that focuses on this subject will never be exhaustive. We know that the big project is the energy exchange. Of course, it is far less work than in the countries we compare with. We're through with 85%, but 15% is big, and it can't be accomplished completely. I don't think it's a good idea that anyone is there, but if anyone had to be there, I'd probably have to take over every subject matter of the government, and I think there's going to be something controversial. But this is true of all topics. It turns toward a change of viewpoint. This is a national campaign, and we need to keep that in mind when discussing these matters. It's just that, a respectable president, which I'm drawing attention to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u119	A respectable president. Electrical security and electrical activity in general on the West have always been in some special position. A former industrial minister, Þórdís Kol Kolbrún Reykfjörð Gylfadóttir, set up a working group about midyear, which was designed to explore the ways in which energy management issues in the West were able, in the right direction, in line with government emphasis on energy policy. The task force has already produced a report to be introduced at a seminar on the energy issues carried out in the morning in Isafjordur. The person currently has not seen the report but is responsible for its content and position in the fourth. Electricity lack has nearly always been present in the West, which has created unacceptable electrical security. There is no sense in producing more electrical energy within the fourth quarter. More electricity production calls for funding of the main transport system and a double west line. A report on the situation and challenges of Iceland's energy markets explains the nation's energy needs with reference to the emphasis and policy of the government on climate. The report also reviews the status of the transport system and the energy market. However, Westerners owe much to stand equal in other national quarters of energy, let alone when it comes to the ambitious goals we are about to set for ourselves in climate. Then I'll come to my question to the highest. Environment, energy, and climate minister - it's a fairly large end into the night, it's cruel to me - whether we can see the signal in this financial programme that the Westerners can expect them to match the state of the Western countries when it comes to electrical security.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and he does not comment on that, even if that is so. A senator brings in cruel questions into the night. Of course, out of play, all aspects of this financial program turn to the entire nation. Whatever it is. A senator refers to and is no secret that we feel and have heard a great deal about, not just in the West, for when you check the status report, the Green Book, it's a call from all parts of the country not to escape when it comes to green energy, to be involved in the green revolution. Of course, there is a great call from the West, but it in itself goes on a lot more than just the one involved in this series of issues. I look forward to it, like a whale. A senator, see the findings presented in the report. A senator referred to and leaves on a plane in the morning to Isafjörg to discuss these matters. I believe it is very reasonable that the results of the report are discussed with the people of the quarter of open meetings, and we will also discuss this in this room as well as at the head. Committees. What I'm referring to does not simply focus on the crescents and pennies of the language that hear under this topic field. Of course it's bigger. And if we're going into energy, it doesn't hear directly from these topic areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u121	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and wish him good journeys west. I know that he will find many things to know after that day, even if he would not unless he enjoyed the trip. The financial agenda speaks of the importance of basic research on the natural and resource systems of the country, the monitoring of nature, the nature of the country, the impact of agriculture and environmental factors, as well as provision and practical research. This may be the case with the importance of a living room, eight of which are in all four parts of the country. They do research in Iceland's nature and are specialised for parts of the country. There is much experience in the activities of the nature lab, and they have been doing vital research for nearly 30 years. The financial program under which we have this discussion refers to challenges such as climate change, which can lead to major changes in natural processes. It is therefore urgent to monitor the development of a natural makeup here on the land and changes attributable to environmental and human activities. Unsatisfactory monitoring levels within the natural year may increase the risk of loss of property and human life. Therefore, it is important to improve the environment monitoring system and improve the studies on the impacts of climate change. Earth - to - earth plant living has great manpower, knowledge, and, above all, vast experience in these matters. That's why I want to ask the highest. In the first place, environmental, energy, and climate minister is whether it is not the right time to promote the activities of a natural home in the country to build up for these objectives as outlined in the financial program presented for discussion, and second, whether it is not important to strengthen the cooperation of nature clinics and institutions of the State in order to make the most use of resources for the knowledge and monitoring of the natural world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u122	Thank you. A senator back there. Hv. A senator pointed earlier to a big question. That question is really much bigger. Both are large and touch very important factors. Hv. A senator refers to goals related to basic research, monitoring, and so forth, and he also referred specifically to natural tears. One thing we're looking at when adjusting to climate change is that we need to be more concerned about things like mud and other things. I mention it because I think it's always a good idea how we'd approach it if we were starting with a blank sheet of paper. To me, the big movie - I'm not going to do exact details because it's not available - and the thing involved with the Ministry I run is the largest part of the coverage, so to speak, in the country. It is therefore completely normal and desirable to have staff and activities in the country, including Out of scientific knowledge, so I'll take just one example. But there are many more desirable things. Of course, this is a generalization, and these matters need to be examined and made out of the glasses. But, hey. A senator referred to a nature clinic and cooperate with other government institutions that play an important role, and the short answer is, of course, very desirable. But I think we should also look at the structure and the activities that are especially in these eyes, taking into account that, so to speak, the subject material is largely, at least very much, in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u123	A respectable president. I have a request for the Environment, Energy and Climate Minister. We report ourselves as a green country, and in this financial program all the electricity produced by renewable sources. That's all right. But the energy we use is another matter. I come from the Western Islands and there's furphines driven on oil throughout the season, and even our swimming pool is being run on oil. I think we need to take a closer look at the possibility of exerting tides and currents, which surround the islands with a strong stream. Also, I believe we need to examine the potential for using wind for the Western energy demand. Moreover, we lack lasting relief from waste management. We've been on the road to waste for years because there's no more garbage in the island. It's the highest. Minister agrees with me to search for solutions in the Western Environment and Energy sectors, e.g. through the use of tides, currents, and wind power? What is the highest solution. Ministers of energy and waste management in the Western Islands as well as in other parts of the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The short answer is yes. Hv. A senator here referred to tides and currents, which, based on the information I have, would be very exciting and brief. But I think most people would agree that there's a lot of potential there. The wind power has changed very quickly from being something we did not consider to be an alternative to being the most efficient option when it comes to energy use in general. And if I could add to the list, I feel like there's something missing, which may be just because we Icelanders' attitude toward the weather here, that we're talking about the solar energy. We don't talk about it much, but it's new in many places, so is north. It can be used here too. It's not that it's such a sun that you burn, you just need light and progress in these matters. Hv. A senator also referred to waste management. You see, I think what we think is small can only be very big and, actually, these things are that matter. A senator mentioned nothing small. At times, the discussion has been that we are dealing with very, at least in the Icelandic standard, much and we are arguing about them, but we may lose sight of what is closer to us and may be easier and more comfortable at heart, and may be promising. Hv. A senator mentioned a few, and the brief answer is yes. I think it's extremely important whether it's in the Westerns or in other places. There are also some things that are about to save energy, such as wet pumps, which have good experience in Western eyes. I have a bill for the council that aims to simplify it and make it more efficient. [[The president calls.]] So I'm just celebrating. A senator agrees. A senator went with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u125	A respectable president. I thank a minister for his answers and strongly urge him to put a little power into the matter, I don't think that's gonna help. We're growling in Western islands, probably more of our garbage, which is naturally terrifying. To the future, nothing is really happening. As far as I know, all the laws on these waste management and incineration matters are being tightened by next year, and you're just worried about the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u126	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Only with regard to legislation that goes into effect next year. I got it. I got it. A senator's view of it is merely optimistic because it sets goals, we are following. In many areas, we are ahead and ahead of others, but when it comes to recycling, and we can just say waste disposal, we can do much, much better. There are ambitious goals. But it's a lot to talk about right now, and I'm visiting local and business representatives to discuss these matters, and it's to be sure that there's also a flexibility in the law to meet the objectives by different means. The important thing is that we are sorting, and that results in the right places. That's the main thing. Then we are Icelanders, with 85% of the population, if I recall correctly, within the White Year, and then we have small places all over the country. There's nothing wrong with that, and really just a positive thing, and we're looking for the best way to reach these goals, and we just need to make sure that the law and regulations are not getting in the way. The important thing is that we're sorting and that we're sorting what we're going to the right place. But there are many ways, and already rural society is doing so in different ways, some with very good results. But overall, we must do much better. That is the purpose of the law. If we have to scratch things to make it easier for the people to achieve these goals, we should view them as positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u127	Madam President. In 2025 the year of the world's construction has already reached its peak emissions of carbon dioxide and then to a significant decrease. 2025 is just a year in the middle of this financial program, so there is nothing to wait for. I need immediate action. Early this evening, we discussed how the government's plan of action on climate matters did not speak enough into this financial program. I'd like to adopt that thread and show how climate emphasis on this financial agenda does not speak enough to climate plans in the budget. You see, it's fine here in the environmental, energy, and climate minister field that it set a target of 55% detrusor detrusion in the 17th sector. There are three other targets for emissions in the schedule; from agriculture, transport, and so on, ESD. ESD is particularly interesting because it is exactly the same number of emissions as this 55% number. ESD represents Effort Sharing Directive, a potential community release or release on the direct responsibility of the government. Except, in the case area 7, it is said that emissions are down to 2,700 kilotons of CO 2 by 2027. This is only 14% reduction in emissions from 2005, the reference year itself. [[The president calls.]] 14% is considerably less than the 55% set in the climate minister sector. [[The president calls.]] I just want to know, where's the sync of this document? Why haven't the climates been weaved into everything?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his input. I don't think there's anything to complain about missing our goals. I don't think that's the problem. The point is, the project is big, and I've never heard anyone with knowledge of this claim to something other than that we have ambitious goals. The question is, How are we going to get it? In case of a moment. A senator is generally suggesting that in the programmes we are involved in in the various matters, the climate goals are not reflected sufficiently clearly, I think there may be a point. But I think that's gonna change, and I believe that that's gonna change. That's the job. We need them to wear glasses, climate glasses, on all factors. That's the big job. I'll quite admit that I feel that this sometimes goes on a little discussion about us being constantly - or maybe not at all, but there's so much more discussion about numbers and percentages. But we know exactly what our goals are. They have not overlooked anyone and are public, and they are included in the government covenant. But we need to get to a place where we need to take a detailed goal on how we are going to achieve it in the individual sectors. That's the big goal. It's everyone's goal, not just those in this room because there's no way that even if we're 100% of agreements over all here, there's not gonna be much going to happen in this category if we don't have the people who have to do it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u129	Madam President. No, I wasn't complaining about my lack of goals. I was pointing to the precise reduction goal, not down to sectoral emissions, but to the high figure of 55% of the target on page 322, that on page 277 it can be calculated to 14% reduction, the target for reduction in emissions in exactly the same area. It is nearly four-fold the same document on the side of the same government that claims to have the same ambition, but it has not worked well enough to reflect the only document we have for consideration. 2025 is the year when we need to reach a peak and start reducing emissions worldwide, and this kind of handbacking is not what we want to see at that point. However, I would like to ask about the goals of transport exchanges that were discussed earlier today and that are still considered by many people, including the following: too much effort is being made to simply switch motors into the vehicles, not to e.g. reduce the number of cars or do anything that can be done to reduce the amount of traffic and thereby reduce the number of miles driven. To change travel habits, we call it. There is a chapter in the budget on the sustainable funding of green projects where there is no talk of public transportation, e.g., one of the most elaborate investment projects that could be done to change travel habits and achieve much more extensive green revolution than simply to take all fuel cars and convert them into electric cars. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It also gives people greater freedom to choose a journey. Why not increase the emphasis on public transport in this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his input. Hv. A senator is interested in public transportation, and I do not comment on it. Of course, when it comes to the energy exchange, it's about going from fossil fuels to green energy, and that's why the gas and diesel trucks are going into green energy and electricity. There are positive signs, however, when it comes to other transport practices, such as domestic flights, and the first electrical aircraft has reached the country. The first, based on the sources I've seen, is 2026 in mass production, that's a 19 - case engine that's six thousand and eighty0% cheaper in business than the current one. If it does, it is a revolution in public transportation, a perfect revolution, and would mean that we could use the airports that we are not now using in different parts of the country, which would greatly relieve the road system, meaning the natural increased traffic around the city of Reykjavík, like other airports. It will be interesting to see what happens on ships as well. Our flagship in the energy exchange is without a doubt a military ship that drives on electricity. There are few with the ideas that we will drive ships that go very far on electricity, but there is no doubt that transporters, which are, of course, public transportation, will be able to keep running on electricity, as alf. So there are many exciting options when this is the case, but it is difficult to predict because, fortunately, this trend is rapid. There's a lot going on. Clearly, it is likely that the person who has an accurate prophecy today about how languages will develop will be quite wrong. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u131	Madam President. I guess it doesn't come why. Councilmen, tops. To my surprise, Minister, I'd like to curious a little bit about planning the establishment of a park in the middle of Iceland's highlands. A government contract states that an organization of national parks will be established when peace - related territories and glaciers in the middle of the country. Yet, when there are few and most proud areas in the middle of the country, there will be a lake earthen park that will cover the entire earth. I guess it's about 14% of the country under there. I wanted to curious in the context of the financial agenda we're discussing here. This is just another objective but was in the past government where a great deal of work was put on the task of discussing the establishment of a central national park or national park in the highlands of Iceland, which certainly needed a great deal of discussion, very necessary discussion, but it did not quite complete and realized that it needs to be done in further discussions and consultations. What really hangs with peaceful regions and their structure is the structure of infrastructure, such as guest living room, hiking, salering, and all that has to do with these projects. Certainly, there are many of these where the peace - declared territory is quite good as it is today. But something else must be needed, so I would like to ask the highest. A minister to see if and how in this program the need for building up of a national park in the highlands will be met by special funds for a single guest room or by a very useful tool, a national structure strategy for infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u132	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. I choose to approach it this way: First of all, I believe that the work that was done, the conversation that was taken even though it might be a little difficult, useful, and I think that when it comes to a national park it is, as the name indicates, a park to the nation. It seems to me that this is now a little missing that a large part of the nation is convinced that the park is for the part of the people they think they belong to. What I'm saying is that at those meetings I've held in this office, you'll understand suspicion. Then it is the task to find ways to achieve the objective of a government covenant that all can be happy or that most of us and we are making a greater national park than we are now. We have a Lake Earth park. We've got the National Park on the Capitol. We've got the National Park on Snæfellsnes. We have a peace-created territory that covers what I best know about 30% of the country. We need to make sure that this is so that people are comfortable with the arrangement, regardless of how they get implemented, that they are part of it. Hv. A senator referred to an excellent instrument that I quickly viewed as no major flaw, a national program for wood. It seems to me that the men have given up in a reasonable way, but in my later answer, I'll be better off.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u133	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. We share fully in the vision of national parks with which the nation has to be united. However, I believe that in the position and case of the areas in question now, that is when peace-infested areas and present national parks, there is indeed some experience with the importance of these areas that are more than 40 years, let us say, taken up for the whole nation. I realize that if changes, such as ideas, are subject to laws to promote and strengthen the protection of these areas and ensure that they are accessed and that they may also need some kind of structure. There may be some guest rooms that are costly and are important, but they are also smaller infrastructures, such as toilets and the like, that we know are very important. In view of this, I trust we will see evidence in this financial program that it is expected. Another thing I'd like to say is one minute at the end. In view of all of climate discussion, which is not less important in this context all, increasing emphasis is also being made on the importance of protecting areas as a direct countermeasure in the environmental development of climate change. Another excellent financial program on the establishment of a national park in the middle of the country describes it as being an opportunity to develop cooperation with landowners on natural protection in areas that have not received peace or peace and that are considered special because of landscapes, vegetation, or animal life. I would like to ask the highest. Minister: Is he seeing in that opportunity in those areas of Iceland where there may not be a national park because it's not already a peace-installed territory? Would such a cooperation be possible with farmers and other clients inside the highlands to strengthen the protection within the central highland line, although not necessarily a peace - informed area?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u134	Thanks again. A senator for the inquiry and his entry. I didn't come to this point before, but they're finishing a national park on Hellissandi, a local village montage, and a My Lake band. These are large and expensive projects, but I believe they're going to come back. This is less than a billion this year and 1.2 billion 223. Hv. A senator knows this matter very well. Certainly it wasn't I who set this up, it was the ones who were ahead of me in the field, and I think it's reasonable. Hv. A senator here referred to an object that I feel is worth a lot of observation. I'll admit I'm very much careful not to say how things should be because you can't take the conversation and listen, and then come and say, "Hey, this is supposed to be like this. The only problem is that it's only 24 hours a day. But I try to do what I possibly can to listen to the people who live with the park, living in the peace-lit regions. There are different viewpoints, there are different situations, but one goal is to look beyond that. I think the big project is somehow working on suspicion, so people can be confident that the changes made and the arrangements that will not be made will change, that what was introduced and brought about will suddenly change. Besides, there are some things that I can't contribute now, for the project is, of course, very exciting, and the prospect for the future is very exciting. However, she sees that people not only agree but also trust in them but also believe that they will be in this way for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u135	Madam President. One is that the right person favors above all, and that the right price is paid for the quality, value, and even loss as well. The debate has been loud enough to suggest that the global damage caused by emissions of contaminated gases and chemicals has not been fully evaluated. First, contaminated emissions cause damage to natural ecosystems, which are difficult to assess for money but can have a long impact on the future as we know. Second, climate change brings health harm. Third, climate change causes a global crop failure and a lack that can, in turn, directly affect food prices in this country. Fourth, when the government fails to achieve its objective, the United States makes financial commitments on the basis of international climate agreements. This financial program contains e.g. 800 million. K. There's earmarks on the Kyoto Protocol. That's how long it can be counted. The requirement is that the financial cost of pollution in this way is appreciated and paid accordingly. As long as this is not done, there is a market error that makes it more profitable to pollute rather than to avoid contamination. This is called the pollution prevention and the contaminated cities. In turn, public programs of such bankruptcy can be protected in support of green innovation or a general tax reduction. Thus a double incentive could be created to reduce emissions and help us reach our climate targets. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he has entered this discussion and what his position would be in order for the disposal of contaminated gases and chemicals to be reimbursed according to the financial cost of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his inputs and inquiries. In itself, it is easy to agree with it as a matter of course. A senator says. Then, when it comes to the project, it can be a little tricky, and in fact, it went wrong. A senator just finely above that. Hv. A senator naturally indicated that these items are difficult to fix. I think the big thing is that what we're doing, but what we're doing, we have to make more of it, we're changing things into the fact that we're putting it, whether it's hot incarcerations, taxes, or projects, we're going to make this here a climate-friendly society, so to speak. This is not just about taxes and fees. Then we can look at e.g. it's the will of taxes. What exactly is that? When it comes to innovation in society, we've got a lot of power and a fortune, and we've got to do it. We will never solve this problem except by innovation and technology. Another thing about the government. What do we call it -- which I hope we do more, we have to do it, and that's a goal when it comes, for example. that building and investments, which can be more expensive, at least for a short time - what do we call it? Is it tax and expenditure when we decide that the government aims that all buildings are as climate - free as possible, shopping as climate - free as possible? It's a little easier to talk about than to get in, but it's not. If everyone has their eyes on the ball, I know why. A senator can easily use such illustrations for the sake of our interests - and we get to the finish. [[The president calls.]] That is what we are going to do, and we need to look for ways to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u137	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Ministers very much for the answer and for sharing in the discussion with us tonight. Of course, these are urgent issues, the environment and the climate, and they should rightly extend through all the financial agendas and all the lawsuits of the government, which I know, as it is said, but then the future will have to decide if it will reach the table itself. I'd especially like to look at the frame that's put in charge of the Ministry. Minister and that reduction of 600 million. K. which is expected to support green investment at the end of the period. I would've been going to the highest. A minister stressed support for the private enterprise and saw the benefits of stimulating it, especially to ensure that progress in the environment and climate is taking place not only in the public but in the community all, and the cost of such changes to the job life as we know it can be. Therefore, I would like to ask if this reduction is a sign of a change of policy in the government, of reducing support to a green investment by the end of a financial programme, or of whether money has been taken here to stop in other places in the program without further explanation. Then I'd also like to ask the highest. Ministers on energy exchange and the predictable demand for energy, of course, are well handled on these issues in the community, as we know, by different ideologies in these areas. Those who say, e.g. that the energy exchange, some of them at least, does not require large amounts of energy in addition to the current fortresses, sometimes suggests that just one of the world's branches would stop working, that would be problematic, one or even more branches if left. I also wanted to ask the highest. Minister what his opinion is about this, just a practitioner. Could the government decide one, two, and three that some specific aluminium power would be closed, where the operation would not be held in the light of the agreements that apply to the contracts for extending them and their likes, as well as whether it would be acceptable to do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his inputs and questions again. It would be surprising if we didn't see a change in this legal class in the history of this budget. Of course, man makes plans according to the best basis he has, but it's just so obvious that the plans we now make will change. So I just have to say right now that I'm pretty calm when it comes to it. Some people say that some numbers may not be quite accurate. Yeah, definitely. We're just doing this thing that I say is very sensible, I say it's wise to plan and try to make it as good as possible. But this will change in this class, certainly in all but especially in this class. Right away. A senator refers to energy exchange and closing individual factories is the basic concept of climateism that we are not pushing the problem otherwise. If everyone would feel that way, there will be no success in fighting the climate. If everyone would just think, " What's turning to pollution, we're just gonna take it and move it somewhere else. ' Where should it go? There should probably be some other planetary system if we were to be successful in climateting. For all the nations we compare with, the ideologies are that we are dealing with what is happening with us. It doesn't matter what it is, what it is. A senator mentioned or something else. Besides everyone else, if we're going to shut down some business, no matter what it was, some people had invested in good religion, employment and employment and so forth, it would result in the natural consequences of all. The key point is this: We need to deal with what is in our lives. We're in a hurry. This is as good as we could deal with crime in Iceland, so if there were any, that we would just take criminals and take them to other countries and say, "We've had tremendous success in getting rid of crime in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Although it's not quite like that, so it's said. On the other hand, the idea is that we must deal with the climate problem among other nations around the world. [[The president calls.]]
