ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u1	The tragic news came to us this morning that Guðrún Helgadóttir, author, former senator, and president of a united assembly, had died by night in the nursing home of Lesk, Reykjavík. The Guðrún Helgadóttir will be remembered in a traditional way at the beginning of a meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u2	President wants to draw attention to him. All council members say that today, March 23, is the day of the northern countries. 70 years ago, in March 1952, the Norse Parliamentary Union was founded, and on March 23, 1962, the Helsing Pre Treaty was signed, ensuring all the citizens of the Northlands, including the U.S.A. equal access to study and work anywhere in the North countries and is the cornerstone of cooperation between the countries. National societies throughout the North countries celebrate the day of the festival, celebrate the Norwegian partnership, and highlight its importance. For this reason, the northern flags are flying here at the entrance of the General House. It may also be noted that this morning the presidents of the Norwegian Congress, telecommunications, and the president was meeting with the Norwegian embassies at this time in which the importance of the Norwegian cooperation was discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u3	A respectable president. Yesterday, I found it strange to see in the press from the closing market to start sales at Iceland Bank for 50 billion and that it should only happen overnight without notice. The Economic and Business Committee has just issued a review of the case, and this includes some of its findings. suggest that the Bank Office be looked forward to selling the bank in stages when there are practical and suitable conditions. The second point is that the zebra's equality should be examined. I'm asking you, was that done? Why did this happen so soon? Were practical conditions present yesterday? And who was ready to buy on such short notice? Who was to know of this sale and to prepare for it? Did you all see each other at the same table? Why was it sold at 117 p.m. when we recorded a crew of 122? There's only five billion profits coming up right away. [[The president calls.]] I ask, "Why is there some form of offer when a seller gives up numbers as a perfunctory figure? " I don't see that there was some transparency in it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u4	The president points out that there is a problem. A senator requested a hearing about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u5	The president points out that there is a problem. A senator requested a hearing about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u6	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the powerful conference board. Like what? paritaprevir Einarsson went over them yesterday, in 22.5% of Iceland's bank, and in spite of the tremendous excess demand, a $2.25 billion discount was issued. Of course, we are still in the dark as to who the buyers are, and the discount was many billions greater if we were to go as it is today. First day of business is not over. I'd like to agree with this team because it all needs to be discussed at the council. I think it's interesting that last year the original auction didn't have been renovated here in this hall when government value was sold on subservation. The value of the government was sold on subsidiary - these are stocks that today are worth up to 30 billion more than they were then, and there has been no contemporaneous debate to learn some lesson from this. There was a financial secretary's report on the sale, on the premiere. It has never been arranged here at the council. The sales of public property continue without any intervention by the General, or so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u7	Mr. President. Whatever we love about personal banking, it must always matter how that process takes place. I'd like to review what a member of the Pirata budget agency wrote in her opinion about a report on the first bid on the share of the state of Iceland, where he says that the original commission was completely screwed up from the public perspective. We all lost 27 billion in their pockets. It is not against the buyers. It is with a minister who set the invitation in such a way. The same minister, after the discovery, gave, as noted earlier, over 2 billion discounts at the next tender outlet, so underestimated that today the property share has increased by 5%. The buyers are this time, on one day, about 10% of the profits have been received. It's a coin the public had yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u8	A respectable president. I agree with the need for this sale to be discussed in the Hall of Congress, and I believe we should work to get it started as soon as possible. As noted, the government's discount is granted by these public property, property that the public has acquired from which the public has paid the tax of the tax, which has been helping us pay for health care and welfare services, repairing road transport. The decision that the government makes to give the buyers a little more than billions of dollars - of course, there is a question here as to why a government to work in the interests of the public makes a decision about such things. I'd like the President to put this case on the program as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u9	President will hear what he's saying. A senator says and will review how this can be discussed so that it does not have to take place under the President's meeting board. The senator may also be aware that the following is the part of the program for the Council where there are urgent issues presented in the community, and in the morning there is an unprepared period of inquiry that includes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of finance is in charge of answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u10	A respectable president. Yes, the sales of that bank took place about three hours. The priorities of the government are obvious. This had to be run through, so on, because, of course, the investors have to be able to make money. So, in this context, I just want to talk about the Constitution, there's not one case from the government on the interests of the households and on the matter of helping them through what lies ahead when the inflation is turning into two-digit numbers. It is not even possible to remove the staff from the index. You can't even freeze for one year on loans and rent insurance. Yet, last year the profits of banks, as we all know, and societal facilities were growing by 18.5 billion and an average of 12.4 billion, respectively. Isn't there some place where a table is served more than at the homes?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u11	A respectable president. It seems easy to give 2 billion dollars. The discount, as easy as it was to add 2 billion to run more ministry. I expect us to turn down some money here about $2 billion, since it was given off. Right?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to say in the context of this case that I have a heartfelt agreement that Iceland is to be sold and the Bank of America is to be sold, too. I'm glad it's taking active steps to do that. I don't think the state should be very active in this competition, just not at all. On the other hand, we must, of course, wonder how this is done, and without me going a long way to claim anything, I think that the discussion in the community after that news yesterday calls for us to be completely informed about what was behind it, how it was done, how it was chosen, especially who was buying and why it was chosen as they were. Otherwise, I'd like to celebrate it, hoping that the discussion will not be about whether it has a head to sell the thing or not. It is my position that the state should not be powerful in this market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u13	A respectable president. I would like to give the discussion that has been here under the council just state that we would like to have a discussion on the construction of the sale. I draw attention to the fact that this is not something that happens in a few hours. It's a sale with many months of action, including with the presence of the council. It seems that many did not realize what the Bank Management Board was doing when she announced that the sales would be carried out by an arrangement that would always have to take place between opening the next day and opening up the markets. That's exactly what happened. When we wondered if there could have been a higher price, we just need to ask ourselves if we meant what we said, at least. I can tell you in my own way that I meant what I said, that I put emphasis on many other things but only the highest price. If you focus solely on the highest price, you're happy that the whole thing goes to one person who's willing to pay the most. But we wanted to secure a scattered possession. We wanted this to be a healthy possession for the bank's future, and that means even. that you do not make the most of your price, for such an arrangement has never been done without any discount in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u14	President. I am one of the people who are in favor of this sale and who are convinced that the state should not be a strong actor on this market. Of course, it does matter how things are going, that the council and the nation are not dark as to how these things are going, that they are transparent, and that there are rules of play that serve the interests of the common people. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget says that the price alone is not everything. Of course, the opening point should be that public interests are foreground. Government credibility is at stake in this regard, and it does not help when matters are handled in such a way that they produce unnecessary suspicion in the community. So I think government should have been able to handle this sale better than you think, because there are too many questions. That's what I'm saying. I'm in favor of this sale.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u15	Mr. President. I wanted to name it as the highest. The president himself mentioned earlier how this has to do with a meeting board. I personally received a message from three different parties this morning as to whether this case should not be discussed at the council today and what has been said here that this is not on the program. Yes, it can be picked up outside the nation's programs and items, but it is obvious that the people want to know immediately and how the people felt that 27 billion people went from their pockets to - well, who knows?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u16	A respectable president. In itself, I can totally agree with what was said in the case of the highest. Ministers of the past, and it's not unusual that there's a discount in a prenup like this. What surprises us, however, is how much discount is given when we are talking about the sale, where the extra demand is huge. I think we also have to face the fact that there is a certain lack of confidence in this process because of the way the sale was started last year in the middle of a pandemic when it was completely uncertain about economic development and the development of property markets. We have every reason to believe that this item was sold at a price if we just look at the way it has been going since then, so it is not for good reason that we call after a political discussion about this beneath the President's board. V.E.G. According to the secretary's report on the first phase of the bank sale, it is reasonable that this first phase is discussed by the report in the United States before continuing, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u17	Mr. President. We may at times forget that there are three groups in the government, though in the economy, one of them is the whole. When selling an item in one of the banks that came to the State after the crash - this did not come about well and was never to be a permanent situation - it is still appropriate to look at all the lost opportunities the government lost to reroute the financial system over the past few years in behalf of the citizens of the country, in the interests of the public, e.g. building a community bank - speaking of the three categories in the government - two of them have banked their policy sheet. But, no, the Independence Party doesn't. He prefers the bank to serve a smaller financial society that is the best friends of the Party who get there in the first round 27 billion that the public could have done something about, and now have received a 10% compensation for what was sold to them last night. It is, as I said earlier, a coin that could have been used in society rather than to feed financial pockets. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u18	President. I'd like to put a few words together. This is where it took it. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson criticized the sale of Iceland's bank last year in the middle of a pandemic. That's the best I know. A senator, who has been extremely successful, so well observed. When it is spoken of as being sold at dinner, the goals were quite different. It was making sure that the public could share in one of our banks of Iceland, and thousands of people answered the call and wanted to participate. So we were distributed property into the Bank of Iceland, which was very good. As a result of that sale, we also received prices at the bank. He went public. That means we got to know the real value of the bank. And what happened? The government's share grew. So I think that anyone who came to the bank last year and the beginning of this process can be proud of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u19	A respectable president. I just want to reiterate that it's normal for a serious discussion to be done over these sales, as we've actually been up to this point. We've been in contact with the council and with the procedure in more than one Senate committee, so this arrangement was public and discussed with the council, and we were examined before the sale was attacked. I'd like to reiterate that it is the banking agency that legalizes the sale, and I am fully convinced that the Bank Office is ready to come to the council and explain the reasons behind the procedure chosen. But what I have to say is that I feel that when the same people come up here and want to stress that we haven't got enough price to talk about, we should've turned this into a banking bank. Well, we could've depreciated a lot of the property then.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u20	Mr. President. The discussion under this program for the President's conference board has sometimes been made up of something other than the President's meeting board. However, I would like to agree with the members of the council who have come and called for the president to raise further discussions here in this hall for sale, based on what has been said here, there are too many questions to answer. Certainly, as the president pointed out, the highest. Secretary of finance here to answer in unsupervised requests tomorrow. However, I do not have the conviction that this is enough. I think the President has to take advantage of the fact that this case will be a special part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u21	A respectable president. I'm coming up here to repeat it, and I'm supporting a political debate over this sales treatment. I'd like to say something. The head of the Economic and Business Committee to refer here to the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the sale, which I don't quite feel is a harmony with, and the implementation of this sale. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ In view of the above, the majority of these points stress that the Minister and Bank Commission closely monitor the development of the matter and determine the timing of the sale, with the objective of maximising the recovery of the state funds from the sale of the items. Maximizing the state funds from the sale of the items. Based on the news we received yesterday, it was only a decision not to maximise it. How do these things work out? This is something that we need to get an answer during a judicial discussion. I don't think it harmonizes with what was said, and I don't quite understand why. The head of the Economic and Business Committee agrees with this treatment because it is not in accordance with the opinion she wrote under March 9.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u22	A respectable president. I described in the report by the Economic and Business Committee my opinion that I would be in favor of a share at Iceland Bank with a number of instructions, including that the funds would be used to build up or subsidies a debt, but at the same time the competitiveness of the case would be examined. What makes me think is that this report speaks of the proposal of the Bank Office, to sell already in a practical and desirable way. I wonder: Do these practical conditions exist now that Europe is on its side for war, inflation? I just can't figure it out. The late bank was to see, and to give counsel concerning the devices of the bidder: all things are before the doors which are shut? How do we, the public and the senators, see who were offering? And everyone sat there at the same table?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u23	A respectable president. The prime minister's financiers on the sources of pensions for international investments suggest that in 15 equally large steps, between 2024 and 202038, the clearance of pension funds will be emptied from 50% to 65%. Many of the pensions are already close to this investment roof and are forced to invest all their increased investments in the country, which requires well over 400 billion a year. As told by the National Association of Pension Funds, it has even been said. that if there are significant restrictions on the investments of the pension fund in foreign currency, large funds may be forced to invest in domestic assets beyond what they consider desirable from their financial interests. This puts us at risk of a significant risk of evasive effects and inculturation in a domestic possession market, which can lead to some of the development of the domestic holdings of pensions. It is also critical of how long this should take. Pension funds have suggested that this source be obtained right away in 1923 and 65% will be reached in five years. At any given time, the crown's position will influence these sources of the pension fund. Once again, a respectable president, it is the sum of the amount of cash that can be used and that even comes. To prevent the use of Icelandic pension funds from maximizing its profits for the benefit of their funds. The late bank manager speaks of a cautious step to take, but it all carries the same well. The elephant in the room is always a dollar - a - dollar servant to someone completely different from the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u24	A respectable president. The university day was held in Akureyri last weekend and introduced every university in the country from its choice of academic offer. It is evident that in whole there is a wide variety of study opportunities in Iceland and quality. The Council is often discussed in all parts of the country with access to university education, but with regard to standard book study, it is far more available for citizens of the country than studies requiring practical knowledge and training. There are solutions to be sought, e.g. with increased cooperation among Icelandic universities, to bridge this gap. Young people in the country must be offered an opportunity to educate themselves in technical fields close to home. It is noteworthy that industrialized people are called in the country, but almost anywhere I go is a clear appeal for industrialized individuals, often dozens of them. The demand for academics in the labour market has so increased in recent years and in both the private sector and the public sector. In particular, there must be an increase in the demand for academics in the private sector. There is no evidence that this trend will be any different in the next year. What I'm calling in and I would like to open up here on a discussion is that a decision will be made whether or not to direct access to study to promote the availability and quality of study, e.g. with a large number of students studying the Bible. Thus, there are opportunities to tailor university funding models to support the university policy of a number of students and to improve the quality of the study and, especially, to meet the demand for employment in many parts of the country after college educated employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u25	A respectable president. Today, I'd like to make up the subject of my recent report by the Department of Education and Culture, Kolbeinn Francis H. Stefánsson's Eyjólfsson of Socialist and Helgi Eiríkur. The report contains the name Social and Economic Status and Extinction from Icelandic high school. As the name indicates, the report on the elimination and secondary education phases in relation to social and economic factors, such as parental education, family size, and introduction. The results clearly illustrate the situation. Elimination from high school is accompanied by social and economic factors. That is where parental education is most important, but the likelihood of elimination increases with respect to household income. Then students who live in poor social and economic situation return to study, and the likelihood of repeated elimination increases beyond that of other populations. The results also show that the effects of parental education are more decisive than the effects of income. There are indeed other background factors that have an effect and number of factors which explain both the causes and the consequences of the elimination of the students. This is especially true with regard to abnormal and dangerous behaviours, academic success, parental relationships, etc. The basic theme, however, is that deduction is always turning toward social and economic factors, turning towards class and position. Therefore, there are a wide range of cross-cutting support immediately in elementary school as well as cooperation between school and social services. Everyone needs to help with this vital assignment. The report also says that the educational system meets with the needs of the population, from the needs of the dominant groups, e.g. amongst class. In this respect, other students, who do not find themselves in school, whether because of the background factors mentioned above, fall from sexual orientation, students with a foreign background, or those with disability, to name just a few. I believe that we should do everything within our power to ensure that all young people and children always have access to study. That means we can control them before they drop out of school, but we don't blame them for what they do because, yes, they're all important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u26	President. Russia commits a vicious war crime in Ukraine. There is no doubt about it in my mind. I say again, Russia commits war crimes in Ukraine. I've suggested Iceland pays 10 million dollars. K. an additional addition to the international criminal justice because of a Russian war crime investigation. We are a small nation, but in this way we can use our voices in behalf of the public in Ukraine. This suggests 30 members of all categories. It's an important solidarity. A study of war crimes in Ukraine has already begun, and a prosecutor at the court has asked the Court's members to support the study with financial contributions. I've suggested that Iceland do it, and I sincerely hope it's approved here at the council. We can do more for this study. We can follow Swazi's example and invite people from Ukraine to share their experiences and record their stories. In this way we can acquire evidence and support. Karim A.A. Khan, a prosecutor at the international criminal court, has talked about the obvious truth that knowingly under attack against citizens is a crime. Ursula Von Der Layen, president of the European Commission, has identified bombings in Mariupol, and we see examples every day, unfortunately. The criminal investigation is meaningful. Those who commit war crimes are to be punished on the part of the international community, and today, for example, is subject to punishment. Those who committed crimes in Yugoslavia and Rwanda were still being pursued, and judgment has fallen. Iceland is one of 39 member countries who requested this investigation initially, and this partnership is without condemnation. President. I'm proud of the Council today. I sincerely hope that my proposal will be accepted as soon as possible. This support from the National Assembly of Iceland is important to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u27	Mr. President. At the Hlpukine.is, the site of a so - called welcome center for Ukrainian refugees in Iceland. Then in English, I'll do my best to translate here on my own responsibility in a pita. This centre gives refugees from Ukraine instructions and promises to follow them every step from where they are and in Iceland, instructs them on how to apply for residence, guide them on employment permits, and how to obtain such permission, assist them in finding shelter, assist them in obtaining other needs. At first glance, when you see a page like this, you might think it was government, such as the information, that is the trade that is behind it. I personally have visited this place, where many people come every day, and I receive a very professional support from a huge number of interested volunteers who devote all their leisure time and even more to helping the people. On the Web site, people can register, they can record a name, and they are contacted. If you want to do your part, you can register. You can advertise the facilities available, clothing, and other needs. But is it the government that represents this page? No, it's a self-provided organization. These are self - serving, volunteer organizations that spring up because the Icelandic government does not fulfill this role. At the same time in the media, there is a lack of washing facilities, facilities for people who have even the clothes they wear during the day, bring children, and there is no washing machine. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I just want to direct it to the highest. Governments to visit these centers to see what is going on there and to make sure that these volunteers do not burn out in caring for the role of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u28	A respectable president. I know, we come up to the conference board a bit often. Iceland and indeed Europe all face one of the biggest man-sprays from the last world war. Millions, mostly children and women, have fled the war in Ukraine in search of cover. Already hundreds have come to the end of the world, and we can expect that if the war persists, thousands of refugees will come here. It is not an easy task to cope with such a manly garment. It is important that our community is involved, and when problems arise, we should focus not only on criticizing but also on finding solutions and implementing them. Hv. paritaprevir Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinasdótttir Gunnarsdóttir gave us a good example of the fact that refugees had no access to washing jobs and how a wonderful group of volunteers were able to find a solution by means of a business agency with an industrial laundry house that could take care of washing. Of course, this is not a long - term solution; it is temporary. Yes, it is not possible to expect such an enormous project as to receive thousands over a few weeks. It must have been nice to see how many people are helping to catch the balls that otherwise had fallen to the ground. It has also been truly encouraging to see all those companies and the money - bearing individuals who have done well in supporting this important work. [[The president calls.]] How important it is when so many people are helping, that we coordinate these activities and work together to make sure that these people are welcomed!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u29	V.E.G. President. Sexual health is a public health matter, and I think the whole world can agree with me on that. A recent report published by the International Study Health and Calculating School Students in 2006 reported that among 15 - year - olds in Europe and North America, one out of four boys and one in six girls have engaged in sexual activity. However, it also shows that birth control has been reduced in the last year. Sex without contraception can have many consequences. Economic situations can prevent young people from using contraception, especially the more expensive types that seem to be more effective in longer periods of time. Young people should be able to use birth control without worrying about cost. In some months, lack of money may force young people to make practical adjustments. The contraceptive measures are sometimes taken out, and sex disorders are affected. The pill, loop, condom, and any form of birth control should be available to young people. There is also a marked difference between the number of chlamydia infections before and after 25 years of age, according to the number of numbers on the STS website, where the number of cases is attributed to the last 20 years. We need to consider improving the sexual health of the people. Therefore, I will submit a synonym proposal to make contraception available to individuals under 25 years of age without cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u30	A respectable president. The sound access to medical services is basic human rights and the basis for housing security, not being able to survive in fear that when serious accidents or illnesses occur, it is not to be trusted that medical emergency services are within reach for the community and safe transportation when life and health are at stake. That people don't have to live on extra fears of their own lives, family, loved ones, friends, colleagues and fellow workers living in our communities because we have chosen to live in the community that nursed us or we choose to settle down to make a future for ourselves. Yet, in our rich society, we repeatedly look back on the settlement set in this situation, this annoying, unpleasant position, in which these communities really contribute. Sometimes better than ever, such as when a work accident occurred in a natural disaster during periods of inadequacy, but sometimes not, with disastrous results. Much of the health services in the country have been improved in recent years, with more special hospitals and emergency services based on key hospitals serving the whole country. At the same time, a national health care network and medical services should be assured. It hasn't worked out. People won't accept it, none of us are going to accept it. A local minister was quoted this week to say that the same health care cannot be promised throughout the country. No one's talking about it or asking for it. The population of the country is calling for regional equality and habitat security. I call for a minister of wood, a local minister, and a health minister to proceed rapidly, in what ways can be better assured of the constant presence of doctors and nurses in those communities that do not enjoy their constant presence, whether it's Coventry, Northeast, or other areas that must have continued medical care but do not have it today. We need immediate solutions and measures. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u31	Mr. President. All I wanted to do was make the media position a subject here at the council. Of course, it is not good, as we know it, in the business environment at the very least. We've been talking this over and over in the past few years. We've talked about their business status, and we've also talked about their importance in the community by means of their news source. They have made many issues for a program of silence, but they came up better because the media were strong enough to maintain their own role. This in itself does not have to be discussed much more. But what I wanted to do here is that if the media are seriously ill, it weakens their chances of holding together society's institutions. At the Summit, the Parliament's resolution has proposed a general review of the media's environment, and the reason for this is simple. It is that all the ideas that usually reveal the status of a media market work, causing some kind of buttock to come out of it. We're either talking about the state of the Kingdom News on a commercial market or the state of the Huns, or how we're going to tax netriss and social media. However, all of this needs to be taken together because, of course, one unit will affect the next ones who will affect the third. There have previously been working groups, committees, and advice to review this, many times more than I think, but the problem is that this is such an environment, both from economic grounds as well as from technological development and other such, that if it comes from this type of work, it needs to be introduced into what comes from it. There is a lack of such a thing. I've noticed that the highest. Secretary of the media has spoken a great deal about the media, both the state state's status on a commercial market as well as the flagrant position, their mismanagement. Now we hope that this overall review of the media sector can be undertaken, and I encourage Congress and the general public to study the Senate resolution proposal available today for the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u32	A respectable president. War now rages in Ukraine, and the Western countries have imposed economic pressure on invaders, which will lead to the rise of oil prices. That is why it is urgent to speed up energy exchanges. Now financial and economic ministers have suggested that the maximum number of electrical vehicles that can enjoy intimidation from a cost taxation may be increased from 15,000 cars to 20,000, in turn, to a bill published by financial and economic ministers in government consultations. The same type of changes due to linking cars are not intended. Why did we not correct a big mistake that took place at the end of the New Year's Day, allowing for the use of typple cars to make it easier for them to use electricity and to make the change from a fuel truck into an electrical vehicle? Corporate trucks have enjoyed much popularity, so it is easier for most people to take the first step toward energy exchange. I believe that continued coincidence for tweezers is more likely to contribute to energy exchange than to the opposite. A number of people are not willing to sacrifice a range for energy exchanges, and this is especially true of the inhabitants of the country. Link trucks are suitable for this group, and they undeniably release less carbon dioxide than cars driven only by fuel.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u33	A respectable president. I'd like to use these two minutes to talk about community banking in honor of my friend Jóhannes Björn, a Lúðvíksson socialist. A social bank has never existed in Iceland. To establish a foundation for operating a community bank, a law must be passed at the Allied Parliament. Such laws require that the bank be a business bank, not an investment bank. The bank was subject to social responsibility, and the profit would go directly to the community. In Germany, a large community bank, Sparkasse, is over 100 years old. He is the most popular public bank in Germany, with 50 million of his customers living there. There are 400 Sparkasse banks in Germany. Sparkasse has put some 500 million euros a year in various social projects. There is also a large community bank in the United States. It was formed in 1919 and is over 100 years of age. The North Dakota Community Bank operates on specific laws that guide the interests of the public. All units, report to the bank, but the operation is independent. The bank invests in a real treasure creation, not in divination. The bat can always borrow cheap from its bank. North Dakota bank didn't have a problem with the 2008 bank crisis because they had bought no rubber check. According to the World Bank, 147 of the world's banks became banks. Should we wait for the next bank crisis, or should we try to start a bank that does not involve prophesying but does business? Those who care about the public's financial security must see a community bank as a good choice. They're solid, and they work for the people. In view of the discussion here regarding the sale of banks, why not make the Lands Bank a benefit to all of us?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u34	A respectable president. Last night a debate on the top of the bill was held. A health minister to lower nicotine products, nicotine pads, under electrical law. The bill is trying to make sense to adults, including the adults. with rules about what flavors it can choose and where to put a pad under its lip. We Icelanders must not buy wine at night, on Sundays, or at all not at a Internet store, unless it is a foreign Internet store. We have state radio, and we have federal mail. In many respects, our regulations and the environment of our businesses in this country are all too complicated. Monitoring is high and there is a need for market members and simple management excessive. Rulers have a strong tendency to want to control as much as possible, to care for people, to know them, to set rules, to demand more instead of losing weight. All are to wear both belts and shoulders, both literal and non - physical. I thought, because we're talking about the Senate's work here, coming up here and trying to encourage my colleagues to trust people better, trusting them to take care of themselves and to be responsible for themselves, of course, as long as you don't walk on anyone else's rights, urging them to simplify rules instead of adding, that we watch out for the little operator not in excessive demands and surveillance. We could see more freedom, less waste, more production.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u35	A respectable president. I want to talk to you about our city, about Reykjavík, the best driver of the country society in the capital area. It is basically no matter what measure we use, whether we want to look at debt, debt, or capital debt, that is always the best way to go out in Reykjavík. This is despite the fact that the city's population is spending much more money in social services than other citizens in the capital area, despite the fact that much of the city's financial resources are available in Iceland and that these are also larger than in many places. And above, there is also the ongoing increase in financial resources, that it is the city in full leadership when it comes to promoting social housing. This is a fact. Of course, it would be possible to do even better; if we were to expand our general living system and if there were to be a real home plan for the country all over and to establish some consistent schedule on how we are going to expand the provision of housing. Unlike the government, the city is in charge of climate matters. I wonder if a convergence policy and the main structure are like this. The largest unique climate action under attack in Iceland? And how did it feel again when the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter failed to initiate government investors here in a pandemic? Then, under the leadership of officers in the city of Reykjavík, the chariot in public investments in a historic investment campaign, as early as 2020. You see, that's how you deal with a financial crisis. It matters who's in charge. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u36	Mr. President. I was going to talk about everything else, but the second day in a row, I'm going to pick up the ball where it was. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir left him behind. It is true that when we think of consumer management in particular to increase human health in the country, we need to have some viewpoints with us. First, we need to ask ourselves: " Are our actions likely to produce the results we are going to achieve? Second, we need to be alert to a moderate degree. I agree with what. A senator that it is, in fact, amazing that there is one law about stores that have landmarks or those who work abroad, and those who work in Iceland. Everyone must see that these two parties have the same rules. This is a liquor online, I think. Third, when it comes to a product that is primarily used for detoxification, to get people to quit smoking tobacco and go to nicotine products that are better, although it is true that young people are not unnecessary to use it, they only need to be careful. If a person is going to break some brands of flavor and come to scientific conclusions as to what is likely to be a crisis and which is not, humans are at the top of ice. And a minister like that was tried 100 years ago when men allowed alcohol again and assigned some graphic designer to make as ugly a ticket as possible to keep people from drinking wine and from becoming black medium. This experiment failed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u37	Mr. President. A recent extensive discussion of health care has been made in the country. Sadly, there is a recent example of what conditions people in the country may have lived in, but there might have been a small child's life if health matters were better off in the country, but there was no doctor in the village. I give my clients the deepest sympathy. Health services have steadily deteriorated in the country, the services have gone further and further away from people living in these settlements, people working in the basic working conditions of the nation, such as fishing, fishing, electricity production, transport of electricity, in the growing branch of tourism. These people earn a great amount of currency in national preparation and create a lot of people living, especially in the capital area. We know that the Orient earns a lot of money in the state box. A report from the University of Akureyri on expenses and income of the State in the northeastern district of 2013 revealed that the East made pay for all services and projects in the East and more. So much of the income goes on to maintain activity in other terms, and I'm going back to name the city of Reykjavík. That my knowledge is that the people of the East will enjoy what they earn in Eastern Europe. It belongs, for example. to help people get into close-up services. This is true of the design of the health system in the East and other parts of the country and other Kingdom services. Also, it is important to ensure that rural society gets income to promote and carry out the services that the State has placed in their hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u38	Mr. President. We need to stand by Sigurður Ingi son of Jóhannesson and give him full support during the attacks of the Russian embassy on him, for there are attacks on the Icelandic Parliament. The Russian embassy has abused the 95th grade. previous penalties and apparently prepare to do so again by demanding an apology from the minister. The minister said Vladimir Pútín was an evil man. Under that I think we can all take, every one of us. If the Minister of Justice is asked to engage the 95th floor. Against the Minister of Woods, the President will consider whether to disbar the Minister's immunity. There we all stand together as one; in peace, against Vladimir Pútín, the evildoer. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u39	A respectable president. We live in a legal situation where foreign national leaders are forbidden. As you and I stand here, we enjoy a council weekend, like what's happened. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier. As a result, I was able to call the former president of the Rasist United States and other similar items in this sermon. But the common people cannot express their views of the evildoer Vladimír Pútín or other national leaders who even commit war crimes without being punished. It's an out - of - date legislation. It has often been tried to change, but for some reason it has been a tremendous failure. Of course, we protect foreign embassies and safety from them and their employees. It's our foundation in the world. But we allow ourselves to speak freely of the evils committed by foreign rulers. They deserve no special protection from the talk about the bad things they do. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u40	Mr. President. The only reason to add is because the situation is extremely serious. Today, the Russian embassies worldwide are little more than a false newsman. The fact that representatives of the Russian government here see reason to find that a political party's leader clearly expressed himself about the offenses taking place in Ukraine, at the instigation of the evildoer Vladimír Pútín, is serious. And that we have not yet had the strength to take an insult on page 95. Sentenced from the law, that's a disgrace to the council. I wondered, maybe a president should direct it to the General and Education Committee to get the bill of the task to wipe out this letter, allowing the scandalous lunatics in the Kremlin to have an increased right to the freedom of expression against the freedom of the people in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] This can't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u41	A respectable president. I just wanted to add it to what. Árnadóttir That's exactly the kind of bill I remember working on a World Health and Education Committee, which would be a good thing to wake up again. And if she's not willing to do that, then I'll be happy to. A global and educational committee to take it on their own. The few objections that have prevented this arrangement are that we would somehow be acting against our international commitments to the Vienna Convention so called, which deals with international relations in the world society and with protection, which is certainly important, and is why we need now, for example, what we need now. watching the Russian embassy. We simply have an obligation to do so in the national rights. However, we are under no obligation under national rights to ensure serious murder of national leaders. It's not like that. It is clear from the history of the European Court of Human Rights that, as the causes are increased, the whole continent's leaders have to accept harder publicity. [[The president calls.]] That's perfectly clear. So these laws are time error and should be modified.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u42	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and agree with what was going on in the first talk. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I think it's a good idea to bring this up in this way. I would like to point out that what is going on with the ambassador is to form that there is an Icelandic minister to interfere with Russia's internal affairs. There is now one confusion, and the error, the invasion of another state, is the national language of Russia. It will also show that the government of the land is democratically elected. We know all about how the democracy in Russia works, so here is another delusion, and it can be applied well to any word. A senator says it's a false newspaper. And then it is not Icelandic Minister to decide who's in Russia. On the other hand, when such an attack takes place, it is necessary for the European Parliament to speak loudly and clearly. I agree with every word that passed by. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson as well. The head of the advance party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, said at the Specialist Assembly this weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-23-55.u43	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for the year 2022. 659. The bill presents the General Parliament with proposals for changes in budgets resulting from the Council's changed system in accordance with the Presidential decision. As everyone knows, changes in the Council's Orders were announced while creating a new government on November 28, 2021, and, in the opinion of the government, it is important that governments do not take their place but turn to the rhythm of the changed times and new priorities. The aim now is to develop in a manner that highlights the government on competitive and sustainable society and is prepared to carry out the vital work that lies ahead. This in itself has been discussed in another assembly case, but here we are creating changes in the budget that are needed because of what has previously been determined on these topics. On the same day as the government was formed, Presidential decision No. 125/2021, where changes were made in the administrative exchange according to the unchanged recruitment order. In accordance with that Presidential decision, the General Assembly agreed on a budget between causes of suffering and lawsuits in a budget bill for 2022, on the 3rd Environment. It is. These changes are reported in the pan-European region of the joint. The legal committee, as well as the closer changes to state and work in a special SmPC of budgets for the year 2022. With reference to Article 2. The European Parliament concluded that by resolution of the proposed change in mass and hot halls of Iceland's Management Board, the General concluded that by resolution of the Council of Congress No. 6/152, January 27, January. In accordance with the efforts of the General Assembly, the value of the Presidential decision No. 5/2022 of the switch between Iceland's Council of Government to Ministry on February 1, 2022. The same day also came to the value of a new president's decision, No. 6/2022, on the switch between management committees of Iceland's Management Board, like Article 4. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. Both decisions involved significant changes from the first order of things. It's the background or background of this case, but I'm going to go back to the main topic of the bill. During management transfer, miss. 1.mg. Section 4. the management board of Iceland's management board shall be brought between schemes and employees to the extent that is normally considered to take into account the scope of tasks and circumstances, Twenty-one. a law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. In accordance with the same legal requirements, the Court shall agree on the transfer of funds and staff between recruitments on the basis of the criteria for the sum to be carried out, including: the cost of status and the number of paints, in view of the criteria set by the Ministry of Economics and Economics. This bill is presented as a basis for review of the changes in budgets resulting from the above Presidential decision-making agreements in each case, as well as for the development of further analysis of specific issues to be carried out after the payment of budgets for this year. The bill combines suggestions on translocation and changes in budgets of more than 120 billion dollars. but this is not an increase in the total cost, and the change does not affect the survival of the Kingdom Fund. The most extensive changes in this bill are reflected in the establishment of the university, industrial, and innovation of the Ministry of Culture and Business, on the other hand. A total of 85 billion dollars are expected for transport. Documents to the university, industrial and innovation Ministry and 28 billion dollars. Documents for the Ministry of Culture and Business. As a result of the implementation of administrative issues between other schemes, transport is expected to be 7 billion. Boards on the bill. The changes of the bill on the financial rights of causes of heartburn and litigation are of two main factors. On the one hand, changes are being made in numbers and in-house financiers and resources to create new recruitments and transport projects between them. Such changes only include changing the location of funds depending on events between causes of rain, lawsuits, and scheme. However, it is the transfer of budgets between recruitments where a switch is being made, moving a portion of the budget between a main office and a project scheme in line with the changing workforce. This bill, as described here, is intended only to reflect in a technical way the changes to the Management Board, i.e. adapting the creation of documents to the modified scheme of advisers. This additional bill is therefore making sure that the financial rights of causes of heartburn, lawsuits, and scheme for the year 2022 will be fully in line with the changed administration of the Council of Government, which took effect on February 1. It should be noted that the bill does not provide proposals for the material changes in the resources of causes of acidification and other litigation classes. Just about the last thing, I'd like to let you know that I sometimes have questions about whether or not anything that has come up doesn't give us any reason to put in special funds at this point and maybe use them on this bill. It is thus to say that it is only under very special circumstances that we have considered reasons to bring new sources of funds in the previous part of the year. Here we need to keep in mind that we have a very large reserve, and on the other hand, we have a reserve in our litigation. It must be kept in mind that we are on our way to carry out the budget year so that there will be some major reason why we can claim at this point of the year that when we reach the end of the budget year, there will simply not be financial resources for some of the things we are concerned about. It should be kept in mind, then, that in such circumstances, it can be expected that it will simply come out of the budget by the fall or by the end of the year. I can't see any of these things happening, even this war, even increasing the number of refugees coming to Iceland, or any of the other things that may have called for additional expenses. None of this is of the magnitude to blow up the equipment we have available for financial purposes. To this end, a respectable president, I recommend that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The budget board.
