ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u1	A respectable president. I think it may have been a mistake not to take an audience officer to this meeting, but I think if we look at the government's tactics, it's always been a tendency to separate someone. She always leaves someone out. Who Are Left Out? Yes, e.g. people who have alcohol and drug problems, mental health problems, and also disabled. The government was just introducing a financial program this morning, and who do you think was left out there? Same group. This is the group that will not even get that famous purchase power that the secretary of finance is always talking about. There's never been any money to pay them the worst place in Iceland. They just grow poorer and poorer and have to tighten their belts. They don't even get the inflation, not even close to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u2	Madam President. I want this 1st. the first thing about telecommunications is to quickly kill the history of the case and the march it has had here at the council. You see, my opinion is that this is probably the best case and the most important issue for the interests of the country and the nation before the council under the Government's Constitution. There are several details of the case that I come in after which are made that it is hardly acceptable that the treatment of these new communications has been in the way it is. The case was presented here last year, then re moved, a great deal of work was put into it. Environmental and Transport Committees and decision-making are based on the main issues or issues of development, Article 87. that turn to technology for transport networks and communications systems. But then the case died in a rage at one of the government parties because another matter had taken its way to shore, and the death of another member of the administrations had to be done in the same way. Of course, it is not acceptable to be held hostage in this way. Then I waited from the very first day of this council, and I thought it best to say, every day, with the case going on, but it's not being distributed until mid - March, when there is evidence to suggest that the matter will come back in time. I want to make comments about this right away. V.E.G. A minister is certainly in a new Ministry that needs to be developed and organized, but in view of the very limited changes made in this matter in a material way from the previous reference, it would have been a great deal earlier and would have been discussed here until the end of the month of March. On top of that, we look forward to an Easter break and a break in the council, making all of this much more difficult to work. But to the point. I'm going to start with a point that was in the treatment of the case at the last assembly, 87. g., which deals with the possible limitations of the literature for the use of manufacturing components and technical solutions of the specific manufacturer, based on the safety profile. This matter was discussed a lot, in order to be spoken out in a mild way. The Special Subcommittee set up within the European Environment and Transport Committee at the last Parliament and found a fine solution, that I allow myself to state that, as all members of the case were considered to ensure both the security of the Icelandic national environment and to ensure that the management of the communicators who are at work were not threatened nor that there was too much financial risk on those on this market working on the structure of their own systems. So I was amazed when I saw that at the input of the case right now this portion was 87. g. unchanged after all the work that had been put into finding a legal solution in the past year. In the conference board of presidents before this discussion of communication began, it was noted that the former minister of this seminaries felt that the time of the Generals was wasted, and I think that there would have been a judicious debate that a minister would have solved this part of the case immediately before making a contribution that ended the solution of a question of simplicity, reasonable, reasonable, and I believe all of us would have agreed that it is the way of going. I'm an audition officer for what? The environment and transportation committee so that I could put my words in there. But I think what's 87th. We must arrange for the distribution system of the market members, the small market that is Iceland, to be considered as a unit, to be taken into account as a whole, as there is a great amount of space at the point where one of the systems or part of them will be considered to be disloyal, it is easy to temporarily transfer clients to other systems. The way what's 87th. I think that it is still the same as the results of the Committee last year, to view the system as a whole, which says the system component of each company itself. It simply solves this matter. There has been an idea that this is clearer than the previous one in the report. So I can't find a spot in a quick passage, so I wake up. The Environment and Transport Committee to adjust this matter and to use the work being done during the past terms. According to this report, around 87th pars. I'd like to say a few words is about the main focus of the bill. There's something here about the so-called marketing methodology. This is an enormously important part of a telecommunication agency, and some market analysis has taken longer than expected, and in fact, laws and rules are expected. But there are new words in the code that take time and I think there's a lot of improvement, including In this light, I feel that there would have been a lot of work to finish this case just before last year. Also catalysed to the cooperation of market partners and joint investments of infrastructure development. They're being promoted in this bill. As shown in the history of the highestv. Minister, even if there were a gap in the conversation, this is based on so-called code, which is European rules for the telecommunications market. These incentives to cooperate with market partners have, e.g. CYP3A4 inhibition by lopinavir/ritonavir. Although this may be the most viewed today for the use of 5G building activities, it also affects other types of incidences, so we see to it that for the development of telephone contacts on the highways of the country, it should be able to make a big improvement in the expansion of the environment. Not that the person's phone hangs on to the last level of its services when things are more and less connected but that is the way the phone flows more from one system to another. If you succeed, this is a huge change for those who drive through the scattered areas of the country and, of course, completely intolerable that this is still undisputed, considering when the case was really ready. I'd like to mention here a point of increasing emphasis on consumer access to information and comparison of the price and quality of communications services and business standards. If there's something you don't understand in life, I feel that sometimes it's an account for telecommunications and other such information services that most homes are subscribed to today or for buyers. Increasing transparency in these materials and helping people to understand what is going on will be greatly improved. A few weeks ago, I personally had a phone call with a servant on behalf of a relative, and it turned out that there were more than 10,000 bucks in the day. a month that was being doubled for a service that was being bought from an alternative pack to which they subscribed. All of this is building up. In this context, from this consumer link, I also want to mention that I think it is reasonable that the Environmental and Transport Committee requests information to tie time, maximum commitment time. This suggests that the maximum binding time based on telecommunications agreements will be extended from six months to 12. The code allows for a maximum of 24 months, but now only Iceland and Denmark have a six-month limit. Here's a suggestion to move it up to 12. I think there must be some analysis of who the benefit to consumers can be because open eyes bind for longer periods than six or 12 months, to this 24 months, because it is, of course, the quality of customers that the more they are, the more likely it is to cause an increase in the overall worth of the service rendered. I think the public in all its basics has a sense of whether it is wise to bind themselves for longer than six months, whether it is 12 or 24. But most importantly, I feel that there is some analysis behind what is left of a possible cost-to-be-expecting programme by limiting it to six or 12 months instead of using the 24-month box. Next, I'd like to mention here a suggestion in this bill that a remote agency is authorized to lay down government fines due to violations of communication laws. I'm sure there's evidence that there have been a long period of fines in this environment but it seems to me that everything, as well as a memory of the narratives that came from the progress of the case last year, that it would be a reason for the Environment and Transport Committee to investigate whether there is too high a blow in the bill. I don't trust myself to find the number quickly, but it reminds me that a maximum increase is estimated to be 4% per year. That's an enormous amount. Of course, they're meant to be subspecies, but I think there must be some real-life connection to possible fines that may be due to violations of communication laws and that, in most cases, it would be a more practical way to transfer fines on a day's grounds than to a heavenly hair of government fines. As I came to the beginning of my speech, the bill is now presented with very small changes, as the Ministry put it itself - I'm not going to list it, it's too long, but there are slight changes in the bill from the last time it was submitted, so the Environmental and Transport Committee should be in the palm of the hand to work it fast and well. But I think these things have to come up with a special opinion. Similarly, I suggest this massive waste of time in the processing of the 87th grade. and taking advantage of the work that was done last year and is a great improvement. It is estimated that the cost is 185 million a year. It is proper to say that estimated expense is inexpensive in a financial budget, and this raises the question of whether there are more issues in the government now on the assembly that are not taken into account in the currently existing financial programme, so it needs to be considered separately and requested information in the processing of the Commission. At the end, I'd like to say that it's estimated that the temporary payoff will be at a rate of 750 billion. K. in monotonous business for the state, i.e. if all frequencies are reassigned at the end of the current time period. In this context, I think it may be necessary to bear in mind that there is a reassignment of the available market frequencies that are already being used, and these 750 million are likely to go translucency to raise the accounts of communications companies. So I want to pray. The Environment and Transport Committee requesting analysis of the likely impact of this remuneration, which I feel is most likely the 750 million that are listed here will primarily be taken from the pocket of running the service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u3	Madam President. Hv. A senator called for an analysis of the profits to be made by extending the hours of customers because of the situation. A senator suspects that increasing quality speed could lead to more expensive services for the companies. I think that analysis is important because I can totally support myself the other way, that increasing the rate of well - being leads to an increase in competition for lower prices and better service. Now we've got a what? A senator was the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee for the last time this matter has taken place before the council and the Supreme Court. The minister spoke of this matter as having been given a great conference discussion earlier. That was spoken of for 15 minutes at 1st. The first time, three quarter a.m. 1st. The second time. A controversy discussion took place within the committee, but does it reflect in any way the importance of this case that it has been spoken of in two congregations together for an hour? [[The president calls.]] It's security wood, it's consumer business, and it's the basis for innovation in the coming decades, and the council's been doing this for only an hour. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u4	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. First of all, the analysis of the binding period. You're absolutely right. Just under certain circumstances, a senator can drive down prices on the market. What I suspect, though, is that individuals could actually be trapped in low prices during a long contract, which would likely be more likely to bounce more if the time is short. But this is what I think we have to do on the basis of some diagnosis, not just because we don't want to be like Danir with six months, and we don't want to be like the code with 24 and then there's a way to say something; isn't it best to say 12 months? There's not a good reason. So to answer that question - I apologize, I didn't realize I only had one minute. Hv. A senator is welcome to add a question, and I will speak more quickly in the second round.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u5	Madam President. I may be able to carry on as long as possible. A senator failed to answer the first round because I feel that the story of this case, the fate of this case, shows the entirely obligatory apathy of the government against this lawsuit. I also think it is reflected in the little Milu case that earlier this winter, where we were basically promised that in spring we would finish this big communications business and would also complete a sort of sister case that would have prevented the Migraine problem, which is the prime minister of the business of foreign investments in nationally important structures. Now it's news from the Ministry that this bill should only be delayed. Perhaps this brings us to another apathy of the government with regard to the future Migraines. [[The president calls.]] The government was not on guard enough when the Milan case was about to rise because of that. lack of communication law, but now we're not going to be on enough guard because of the lack of the second bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u6	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. Of course, you're absolutely right. Government classes speak a lot of these weeks and months, but then nothing happens. It is the principle that confronts us. But to answer the second question from the previous issue on the scope of the discussion, the debate here at the council Hall has simply been said to be moderate in the early stages, based on the scope of the case. This is an enormous issue in view of the importance of communication for the future. In that light, I was severely critical of this roundabout, with all due respect for the highest degree. Secretary of communications that's not in the room. It would have made more sense for me to think that communication continued to be part of the Today Wet Department. But I can tell you for a moment that I was very surprised, so to speak, when the bill died here at the last council, as important as it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u7	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his speech, and I took a special note of the question. Senator on the 87th floor. to deal with security benefits due to the development of communications networks. All of this sounds great, but we all know that this is because here, a few years ago, the U.S.A. had a backside feeling about the use of the Huawei servers, something they even considered to be national security. Now this is how both Nova and Vodafone, their 5G net, and that I think 4G too, use it while the phone's been in Ericsson's back pocket for tens of years. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator spoke of a lot of discussion about the 87th area. who wouldn't have gotten into this bill. [[The president calls.]] Watch your step. A senator gave the one - minute edition of what that discussion was like?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u8	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. When the case was discussed last year, there was 87rd. Although other aspects of the bill have been traditionally enjoyed, the alpha and the Omega debate and the development of the Committee. In view of the national security perspectives and the concern of communications society over the independent status of their networks, which, of course, are just things that I allow me to claim are unrealistic at such a small market as we live in Iceland. It was set up as a subset of the Environment and Transport Committee last year where three members of the Council were assigned to the 87th C.E. Forward. The results of that work were, I think, a very good solution, which, as I said in my speech earlier, I am amazed that I did not find my way into the reinvented Minister's bill this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u9	Madam President. Sometimes it's a little hard to find in that thick bill what you're going to ask. I cut it by what I did. A senator said that he spoke about his experience in helping relatives or friends with understanding what was being charged and that it had been twice for the same things. This is something I recognize from the discussion since I was living in the United States, where communications companies were clean and prepared to be forced to have much more transparent about how they charged and what to do. This was seen in most users when they received these new accounts, which were more beneficial than the fact that they were charged for lots of things they had never asked. 74. g. is about accounts, et cetera. Does the senator think it is transparent, or does he need to do more?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u10	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think the sentence of 74 st. I am much improved, but I also remember at the last assembly that there were points that could make the article even better without the need to be paid for the services. I must admit that I would have to take notes to recall what these included. I'm going to point it out to you. Environmental and Transport Committees to investigate it specifically, as this is of utmost importance. That's 10,000 bucks. every month here and 10,000 bucks. in a month. This builds up in real numbers when it comes to, after taxes, the money of the homes. This example I mentioned earlier, I'm sure there was no resolve in the company. [[The president calls.]] There had only been a purchase of the same service twice under the same name, so there are no doubt many opportunities to make such adjustments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For this fine speech, the Bergþór son of Ólason is to be spoken. It may be 87th. which is the most remarkable talk about this bill. There we are talking about a law that has the intention to give a minister permission to state in Regulation that the equipment in certain parts of national networks should be overall, or in a certain proportion, from the manufacturer to the state of Iceland on a security basis, or in a state within the EEA. Hv. A senator went over earlier that the landing on the bill mentioned here might not be quite normal, it would have looked better as if it had been suggested in a working group. [[The president calls.]] I'm a little curious to hear a little more about this, whatever it is that is mainly disturbing the why. Senator of the 87th C.E. Like she's put on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u12	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The bottom line, which led up to this Subcommittee at the last assembly, was improving the sentences to 2 mg. The bill that says, by permission of the President: ▪ Telji Post and Communication Systems at risk of national netting are or can become highly dependent on one of the manufacturers of the Agency, on the basis of national security concerns, allowed to bind licenses. Twenty-seven. Conditions contribute to the diversity of equipment or to the use of other appropriate measures. In this sentence was added half a sentence that turned to the evaluation of the national communications board as one. [[The president calls.]] It helped to ensure that there could be a security benefit, that the system part could be pulled out without having to be done by each provider.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. The bill we're talking about here today provides a basis for the increased surveillance obligations of the post and telecommunications agency and the driving force. A senator only entered the budget earlier, whether or not financial support was provided for this monitoring, etc. In this context, I find it interesting to see, in a newly diagnosed financial program, that there is a very significant reduction in transport and communication spending. This year's budget is 51 billion, but it will be down to 44 billion in 2027. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament, by the bill and the co-programms that have been produced, is that the extra monitoring plans for the post-Semittering and communications agency have been filled with financial resources. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u14	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I found the sentence from last year and I'm going to start by reading it: The number and communications network at risk of national networks being or can be highly dependent on one manufacturer's equipment. It's the approach. In terms of funding at the expense of telecommunications clinic monitoring, it's just that it's inexpensive. In any case, this is not expected in a financial program for the 2022/2026 years. I haven't examined it yet, but I don't think this is expected in the budget that was introduced this morning. I haven't seen it yet, but I will.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u15	Madam President. I'm going to talk a little bit later on this case, but I'm on the Environment and Transport Committee, and I'm very much concerned with this Moustation that we got here at the time, as we were wondering why this whole bill wasn't just submitted. I'm busy with it at the time we are now, and I'm experiencing that the North countries already have a total law. We know that the Atlantic Community has concluded that there is a serious security hazard in the development of communication networks, that Member States must ensure that important infrastructures of traumas, tolerance of security. I just wanted to pray. A senator to explain only what the work was on this committee at the time because it seems to me that this is a full - grown bill. How could it be that the government's priorities were not higher than the government's list, although I would not expect him to represent the government in that regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u16	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I simply don't understand why the case has been on the list of priorities and put in no more than it does. But the answer to that question may be simple if you look at this council and the last one to agree with. These are the same government groups, and considering how much of the administrations was of little interest in bringing this bill to full use here at the last council, it seems that there is little interest and understanding in these matters. Sadly, I don't know any other explanation for that subject. Given the small amount of material changes made on the bill between councils, it is even more incomprehensible that the bill was not submitted in its entirety at the time of the assembly and thus effectively solved the overall problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u17	Thank you. A senator for the record. Unfortunately, he's confirming what I suspect. I just think it's so serious in the light that the underlying interests of consumers and interests of competition and communication are not just basic interests of the state. There's a language way we have the ability to resist the threat of nature. It is a matter of national security, telecommunication, national security. I may not have a question directly to the senator, but I'm thinking about it. Then we saw the fate of the Mistletoe that somehow was making a regular work around sales first after the sale. But then we heard the argument that there was a bill that wasn't directly connected to the Milu deal, that had run out some articles. They were always lacking the harmony and the historical explanation of why the government did not trust to provide a whole bill with a complete approach and thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u18	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I don't really think that it's from which we look at this matter, whether it's from the perspective of the consumer, the telecommunications company, or the national security angle, that's a big difference in the way this case has been brought on and nothing more than that, just directly executed at the end of the last assembly. I don't know what to read about it, but I don't think there's any combination of indifference and lack of understanding in the present government on the importance of these issues. The case has been prepared for a long time. The most complex issues that were not political issues of the 87th century had been solved. It was just a complicated thing to solve, and there was a good solution, but the solution is that there's no basis for finishing this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u19	Madam President. I haven't come up here to say anything, but I was wondering that we were here last week talking about a lot of subjects in the area. A health minister who was not missing here at the council Hall but sat under discussion, listened to what we have to say about all the political issues he was offering them, and responded by undoing one of the matters that were clearly wrong. We will now discuss this large code of law, which is being submitted for the first time by the current minister of the seminary, the highest. The High School, Industrial, and Neon Minister of the Austu Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, who's not here at all. I wondered: " It's 1st. It's not a 2nd. After the job of a committee, it's 1st. Um... wouldn't be normal at the highest. During the discussion, would a minister be in the hall?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u20	Madam President. In the past, we discussed the opinions of government officials in a democratic discussion here in the hall. Then came up in a box. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir said this wasn't the discussion she expected, it's like this, it's like a thrant to take place in the President's conference board. I wondered if the president should have reproved the senator for this validation of the conference. But what's wrong. A senator said that she missed us using this seminar to discuss matters and to communicate with others. You see, I agree with this, but I miss it so much. The members of the board of directors from all discussions. They've hardly been seen here all winter, most of them just stay away from a political hearing for the entire March. [[The president calls.]] I'll answer a question. A certain councilwoman, Vala Helgadóttir, where is the minister of the seminary? [[The president calls.]] Is communication the matter more efficient than it is that it is not even going to put it out of its way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u21	A respectable president. I will personally recover from the highest. A minister did not sit under my talk earlier, but this is the case with 1st. The point, a case in which especially one of its odors is really complex, even if the solution is available. However, the decision of the minister to make the matter clear without the fact that this solution is part of the matter is even more important if the minister listens to the viewpoints presented here because we know what it is when the Ministers get through 1st. This has become a problem for the committees and others to worry about the discussion. I think there'd be a lot of improvement and anyway, see if it's the best. A minister is in a house, so direct it to a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u22	A respectable president. I come up here to deal with a word or two. paritaprevir Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir back in the President's conference board, where she argued that our comments on the conduct of a special minister of the Action Party but also only general officials in general at the council would be some sort of Šrant's, so I am now hanging out like a boy. A senator did, by permission of the president. I think this is wrong because, as I said, we are simply making progress here, commenting on the gross disrespect shown by the council, and the lack of control over matters at the council. If it's an arrant, you could have it. A senator might wonder, " Could it not be possible just to work better with us and to get rid of them? ' But it does not even appear to exist in the imagination of what happened. Councilmen say they may have some choice of how the cooperation is carried out at the National Parliament. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u23	Madam President. Because of the importance of interest, and we have entered the General Assembly that we have a minimum requirement for the government, I believe that it is proper to ask for a formal request that the Ministers be summoned into the hall to participate in discussions on this matter. In fact, underneath there are interests like this - we're talking about communication at the times we're living today - that would have been a good thing to say that this is a foreign minister. There would have been a fine way to know that there is a prime minister here. It says something about the situation that we do not think of asking for ministers other than the one who recommends the matter of being in the hall. But I wish that the highest. Ministers come to the hall, listen to the debate and participate in it, introduce this matter, discuss it, and reason at the General Assembly of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u24	Madam President. I would like to reiterate the request to a respectable president to see if they can be found at the highest level. Minister because she was seen here before but apparently lost. A question. Is it necessary to ask the members of Congress to search the council? While they're looking for a minister, I think there should also be a search for members of the government because 36 of them seem to have also been lost in this important discussion. We're talking about wood, Cretic Wood, which will help us get into the future. The government's members are not involved, ministers are not involved, and I'm asked, more dignified president, if this meeting doesn't need to be interrupted and if no one wants to talk about it from the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u25	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. Councilmen here have spoken. It is very unusual that neither the minister of communications, which is the university and industrial minister and therefore telecommunications, is not here to discuss this enormously important matter, and I'm not the source of a senator from the Independence Party here and just no member of the House. It surprises me because it's a matter of national security, and it's about our infrastructure. It was different before me that the Independence Party is not more interested in this matter than it was in the past, especially for now. So I ask, Where is the Independence Party in this matter? Will he not speak up and wonder whether we are taking the right steps in behalf of infrastructure, in the interests of communication, and in the interests of national security?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u26	Madam President. It's surprising that no member of the board is concerned with the huge issue we're discussing today. Here we are, here we go. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir complained that there was no real exchange to take place, just something more satisfying, perhaps now that if the management would be a little more effective, then there would be a more meaningful exchange of opinions here in the hall. Another thing I am moved to point out is that in the past few weeks, two times have happened to discuss here in this hall, 1st. regarding government matters, led the Ministers to realize that the situation was magnificently defective and withdrew. [[The president calls.]] In view of this, I feel urgent. Ministers are here with us, listening to this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u27	President. I'm not always here, because I'm a deputy. Still, I was excited to come into this week and observe the regular activities of the council, where ministers will measure up their affairs and those in the board will participate in the discussion. But it isn't. There's one member of the board inside the hall. Is this normal, I'm just asking? Is that what it's supposed to be? It doesn't look like it to me. Is it normal for a minister not to be here, which is a recommendation for his own matters, to participate in discussions about it? I don't know. It's a very important matter, so I agree with it. Councilmen here who have entered a pita and have said the same thing. I really feel that since we are forced to live as ministers, not as it is recommended in the law, it is a minimum requirement for ministers and executives to be in a room and to participate in discussions. This is a completely crazy arrangement, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u28	Madam President. I'm going to try to be cleared up here because this important matter, including, is not of interest to the council. Iceland's extremely secure interests. I wondered if it can be connected to a very peculiar speech that has been heard from this same study, from all kinds of administrations, that there is something negative and propulian about the national security of Iceland, Iceland's security team, because it's a war. I can't control this speech. I would have thought it was just the opposite, but this is what is heard from them, and especially in the light of our case, which pertains to national law on involvement in the European Union. Could it not be that governments are shy to enter the hall and discuss security matters because in the world there is a war, that there is some misunderstanding that we are not supposed to be discussing security because there is war? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm putting this on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u29	The President will tell you why. A senator to the highest. Minister's walking into the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u30	Madam President. It is only natural that we end up in the absence of those in charge from this discussion in view of the great interests involved. Hv. Because of the nature of the situation, I have mentioned many of them, and I want to add one thing. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason crossed the 87th floor. the bill that contains a number of opinions that you can cover. I'd like to point to 89 st. and 3 mg. This article is an overexhaustible source or obligation for telecommunications companies to keep all information about the communications use of all Icelanders for at least six months. A similar source was established in the European rules of time but canceled because it seemed to be too close to privacy and personal protection. It's still in effect here. V.E.G. A minister was asked about this before the weekend, and there was no other way to hear from her than that it should only be allowed to stand because the police thought it would be so convenient for him to walk to this information tip. Even so, the police always find it convenient to get as much information as possible. But it is our job here to protect the privacy of the citizens, the privacy of the public with regard to the government. There's a group of freedoms in the government, a man who can deal with this. They'll give you what's empty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u31	A respectable president. It's always good when you're popular. I've been here, this is the fifth day the bill is on the program. I was there already. The members of the council were having a long discussion about the chairmanship of Mrs. President, and they had to be personally set aside for a brief period of time from the council, saying why. Councilmen believe that the interest of ministers and members of Congress is of little value in this important matter. I'm going to forgive myself for this nonsense, for a case on the fifth day, I think, on the agenda. I've set up my schedule day after day to sit here and discuss this important subject, which is so important that we should get to the point first. Environment and Transport Committee. Here I am happy all day to have finished talking with you, have been here, and will continue to encourage you to discuss some issues in this council hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u32	Madam President. I'd like to offer the highest. The university, industrial and innovation minister, the Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir's daughter, welcome to the Assembly Hall. We're talking about telecommunications, and I'm celebrating her interest in a more objective discussion on this important subject that she's now making for the first time but the third time. This is a very important matter, so I'm coming up here to celebrate the Minister's interest in the objective discussion of her bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u33	Madam President. I'm glad to hear it. Ministers have entered the room, but the sensitivity is probably unnecessary, at least As far as I'm concerned. My declarations about the lack of respect for the government in these matters turned to the fact that these same groups fell apart during the past council, and now the matter remains to be observed as late as the case is, in order to be maintained. I think that'll be a great improvement, and I hope to the highest. Minister will join the discussion. I'm sorry, I have only one five - minute talk left, but I'm likely to have some viewpoints later in the discussion. I encourage ministers to take the most objective and grammatical part of the discussion on this important matter ahead of time but to criticize the lateness of it and the treatment it received during the past council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u34	A respectable president. I'm saying it's a pleasure to have the highest. A minister in the hall to participate in discussions about this matter is of interest, of course, that there is not one member of the seminar on the subject. I understood that we were in a position of government intolerance because people were in so much difficulty in discussing communication. However, once it is scheduled, it is still only a matter of communication, this case of government. I'm just saying, "What?" paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir: Where is the Independence Party in this discussion? Where are the executives, except for the highest. Minister I have already welcomed to the hall? I wondered because I thought that this was exactly a matter that was important to discuss about the position of world affairs and the many matters of opinion that concern the personal rights and rights of the citizens of this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u35	A respectable president. I want to pray to the highest. A minister to show understanding that many of us sitting here have twice in the past few weeks been caught up in sitting here after discussing bills so that it becomes obvious that we are too poor to be hired for Congress, and ministers have been forced to withdraw. So when we discuss this matter, we feel that there is a reasonable requirement for a minister to sit with us and listen and participate. When a minister disappears, you may wonder if this matter is the same as the others, whether the minister is not sure of the situation. Other than that, I'd just like to show you that it's the administrative part that's running the program here at the council and setting priorities. [[The president calls.]] It's not the government opposition to blame, and we're just beginning to discuss this fine subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u36	A respectable president. I wanted to come here to inform the Senate that there's a reason why they were afraid to bring the case to a committee, and that's a very good reason because she showed it to the top. Ministers listened to the Environment and Transport Committee. It was an Environment and Transport Committee that required it to the Ministry in the previous communications case to review the regulations of the bill on energy and security exchange. It's the latest law in this bill that we're discussing here that the Ministry added after committee opinion. As a result, it took more time for the Ministry to finish the case and bring it here and the highest. That is exactly what the president has presented before other issues that were originally on the program, so it all seems to be in a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u37	A respectable president. I think it was good to hear an explanation. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason. This is an extremely important matter, so ministers need to be careful. We experienced this in connection with the Migratory case that it seemed to bring the current industrial minister and minister to the surprise, so we need both belts and shoulder ties when we consider this case and, most important, national security, which is how I have been approaching these matters. I want to be happy that the minister has entered the hall, and I hope we can start talking about what's important and that's why we're discussing this matter of the depth we've been doing. It is not new for us in the opposition of government to have to correct matters. That happened repeatedly here during the last term. It also happened repeatedly that we had to take care of the government because of a conflict within our own ranks. The third energy pack, or pregnancy break, and other issues that we in our government situation needed to help the government. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to be especially glad that the minister is in the room and that a minister is encouraged to take an active part in the discussion. [[The president calls.]] I think it'll be very informative and rewarding. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u38	Madam President. I'm very pleased to say so, thank you. It's important, I think we're all agreed on that, which is a law frame around Iceland's communications system. It has been pointed out that this has to do with consumers, it has to do with security, it has to do with innovation, whether the European Union is respected by where they live in the country, as well as its high standards for personal protection and privacy in this bill. The talk that took place before the weekend was done by the highest level. The minister that she thought it was a very serious matter because it had happened to two previous legislatures and it was recommended, and it was sent to the committee. I'll take that statement to the extent that there was a lot of publicity on the environment and transport committee, but the discussion here in the conference room reflected nothing of the importance. The first time they recommended the case, the discussion lasted a total of 15 minutes. Korter was taken to the Assembly Hall to discuss this big matter. During the second announcement, members of the council found 45 minutes to discuss this, one of the larger cases going through the council hall. Then let us consider this only in the context of the small communication issue that took place earlier in the winter following the Milu language. There was a material debate at a conference hall on that matter for five hours, although it took only certain features of what is now presented as a total bill for communication. Five hours were spent in the Milu case because I think then a conquistador came to full realization of the degree of interest. Then people would be able to put on the table the views that might have had to be placed on the table the first two times recommended, but it's good to hear that this is the third time the whole review is submitted. For the sake of time, I will try to limit myself to some specific part of this matter. I'm not going to spend too much time discussing what might be described as the lack of national security and security in general as being displayed, for example. in that the Milan case came to the council after the Milu case was passed, we were given the bill too late, which was because the bill we talked about here today had been given two days on the committee. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir On last winter, Bergþór, the son of Ólason, had nothing to do with removing it from the committee. At that time, the total stream of communication, the entire layer, would have been in a much better place at the time of the Mislacy itself. The problem is, it is not as if there were a storm from the open air, but if we just consider a public broadcast, it would be longer if some confidential conversation occurred between government representatives and communications parties. But this may be more history than anything, and I'm not going to spend many words on it. What I would like to discuss is 89rd. The bill, specifically 3 mgr. this article. 89st. deals with what has been called data storage, which is the fact that a communications company has data on the user's communications trip. 89th. is in 1st and 2 mgr. Consider what companies need in order to serve their clients. The nature of a case says that a telecommunication company should have some information about the user's communications trip in order to do so, for example. to deliver only those communications, in order to connect users, and in order to do accounts for the use that occurs, so some data collection is necessary. But 3 mg. makes it valid that it has a valid authority, or no authority, so I use the correct word, so it's the business's duty to maintain minimum registration of data on the user's communications tour for six months. To preserve all information on all the communications of all users for six months in terms of criminal investigation and public safety. This change was made in Iceland almost as a result of its production in Europe. This change was made in the light of the proposals that later came to be issued by 2006/24/EB on the preservation of communications data. But this was never recorded in the EEA Convention, so this was the introduction to Iceland's initiatives at something that might have been possible and even coming to us through the EEA Convention but did not, including because, before it was decided that this was a European Court's verdict, the European Court's judgment against the decision was made. The Court referred to two basic rights, one of the privacy and the protection of personal information, and it was the judgment of the court that the decree violated an average rule in view of the extent to which this procedure in privacy is being extended. This may be most surprising because this has been pointed out, not just by members of a social group who fight for privacy, but by governments themselves. I have here in front of me a bill for a song that the Ministry of Presidency put in the 2018 consultation suit, I am close to saying, of the delinquency of data control, of this 3 mg. of which is now 89th par. The bill, but it's a 3rd. 42rd. current telecommunication. This bill was submitted after the work of a so-called freedom of expression committee, and it simply pointed to it in the bill's report, as it was in the consultation puzzle, that this would have to be done in behalf of privacy and personal protection and would have positive consequences for freedom of expression. This refers to what has taken place in Europe, where the European Court decided to invalidate the directive, and despite the lack of direct acceptance of the directive in this bill, it is normal, because this court order shows significant harm to the laws prescribed in Leviticus. mg., there is an obvious benefit in removing the paragraph and a considerably greater benefit than the potential negative or burdensome effects of removing it. It is particularly possible for police to obtain information on the use of communications in a criminal or public security investigation because of the fact that these sources are simply in other forms of the law and the bill where court order must be taken and to do certain things to be collected, rather than, as in the law and the bill, that information is collected throughout the public and all kinds of communications without being endeavoring to cut off the data supply from the target for each case. I'm going to mention this in such detail, Madam President, because this was discussed before the weekend and then. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir gave a fine talk in which she considered these matters and why data storage was a great fixation in the library, this unreflected data tank. I was a little surprised by the answers that came from the highest level. Ministers in those indications because they indicated that there was not a particularly great willingness within the Ministry to handle this. Even the minister had not been at the bottom of the information that this was considered to be a matter of magnitude that it had been discussed in the Council four years ago. Rather, a minister simply points out that it came to the request of the State Marshal and that according to the information that a minister gave this information could only be very useful. In fact, there are studies around Europe that suggest that data obtained through the releases of the directive have not been particularly useful to law enforcement authorities because Internet offenders simply had a very convenient way of avoiding the information collected in the directive. But I don't think this is a good place to be, that it's enough for the police to be able to get all the information that can form on the use of all the people in the country, and hence it's just good. I imagine that police authorities would never refuse permission to collect evidence beyond what they do at any given time. Rather, they always want more information than fewer. But what we must ask ourselves here in the hall, what we have to look at at. The Environment and Transport Committee is whether this directive meets a moderate measure. I must state to myself, Madam President, that, considering what I have read in connection with the sister of this arrangement, which is in the European Union's death decree, I don't think so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's obvious that there's some moderate care here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u39	Madam President. I may only have one nuclear question. I'm on the Environment and Transport Committee, not at the last assembly. At first glance and first tour, it seems to me that we have a grown bill, that it's natural, as always in the bill which is what, 90 articles in length, a lot of work ahead of us, but it's a nice and good work here. I just wanted to ask you what. Because we're comparing ourselves to the work ahead, whether he shares that vision with me, that this bill is as far gone as possible, and that late is working to groom it rather than to correct the dramatic.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u40	Madam President. Yeah, I think I share that opinion with you. A senator's being a mature bill, and to a large extent, it is based on joint European work on the rule of communications. Communication, the nature of a case, is a cross-border service that is therefore a key factor of orderliness, and much good work was put in the bill. However, there are factors that require political views. For example, with the data cover, it's about whether we value more privacy or the fact that the police can get more data than memory. So let us not forget that this is a natural matter that is taking place for the third time, and the first two times it was just as grown, while the rulers between them were able to kill it on a committee. It was considered in a talk given at a time. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son, how far the matter was going last winter. I think we've all been surprised when the committee broke down to the 2nd. Here in the hall. But it was just about some character between the government parties. The rest of us didn't understand what it was all about. We were able to make some material comments to specific articles, but it never came to pass on an environment and transport committee because the case was slaughtered in just a vocabulary between directors. Also, let us not forget the little Miscarriage Act, which revealed a marked disagreement between the political parties on the subject that was delayed for the release of this case that we will face. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u41	Madam President. I wasn't referring to whether this was a bill presented to be a political bill, that was not the question, but whether a senator would share with me that it was mature in the sense that it was a good thing. I'm asking because it's a real mystery to me that this whole bill hasn't been suspended before, that it hasn't been above the top priority of the three governments themselves. But because of him. This was discussed with the police by a senator who has been discussed. I think the defenses are supposed to be that police should always be looking through courts to get these data, and then the second fence is that there are clear conditions for the destruction of the benefits. Then we know the reality of the police today with organized violations and human weight. So it may not be quite clear what the time limit is on how long the police can access these data, of course, it is always in months, but it must not be taken away completely from the police opportunities to complete their research.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u42	Madam President. The recovery of the data tank to 89th par. The bill isn't about taking the police alone. Police will continue to be able to apply themselves to 92 st. which is involved in a criminal investigation where it is granted authority to direct references to communications companies to assist with the investigation but to support them in the exact legal or legal process. This is the normal law. 89. par, 3 mgr. it is an abnormal law because it obligates a communications company to keep information about all the people doing in the country for six months, in case the police consider knocking on it. I'm just referring back to the fact that this has been a similar source for the European Union. It was dejected by the European Court, and it was irreversibly irreverent because of its lack of respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u43	A respectable president. I have to come up here just to correct some things by reason of it. A senator with regard to this 89th paragraph. It is important to keep it in place that there is a clear difference between telecommunication and communication, which is contained in each article. This is simply talking about data between parties rather than about what is going on in the subject of phone calls or messages or such. For 3 mg. .............. A senator refers to a record of six months of telecommunications, which is, of course, properly weighed in public interest and personal protection terms. The previously unmistakably set in, since these instructions are referred to outside, and we are still waiting for a new rule of personal protection. It can be noted that the original bill, which appeared in 2005, assumed it was one year, but the Lawgiver's decision, taking into account Persian Protection Comments on this arrangement, was just a perspective on average and should be considered six months. Of course, we can make it through these interests. At the same time, there are many references to a decree - this command came ahead, so I reiterate it - and one of the problems of the directive was thought to be in this court to be unconcerned, and it was authorized to have a period of up to 24 months, a period of six months. Second, the Court criticized that there was not a clear demand for the destruction of data, such as why. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir came in earlier, after a period of preservation, but this bill and the set which is now makes a very clear demand for such things. Third, the main target of the directive, which the European Court made, as the senator repeatedly checked, was considered not to be required for access to a court order. Here is a clear requirement for the judicial decision. This considered the judgment to be the three primary boundaries, and this law is only different from the directive, and it specifically answers those criteria. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, this will be discussed at the council and now on the Committee, but I remind you, there is a new EEA project on personal protection in communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u44	The president reminds the speakers to respect the time of public speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u45	Madam President. I appreciate what a minister called correction, but I can't hear better than being a repetition of things I said. What may be lacking in my speech is that the minister specifically mentions this in the 2005 Icelandic Law code. That is a very long time ago, both in the development of communication and in the development of personal protection. In this context of this judgment that fell in 2014 in Europe on the sister's directive of this law, the account may not be remembered. Yes, a moderate factor may have been that a period of preservation was permitted up to 24 months, but this was a threshold in the directive. That was six to 23 months. Clearly, we need to examine on the Environment and Transport Committee whether the lower limit has not been fixed. A minister lists several points that were pointed out in the court, but there were others, for example. Just the basic thing that the court didn't think it was normal to let such regulations extend to the public and to all kinds of communications. This is far too far too far - reaching. What the judgment also shows is that there is a lack of implemented measures to protect the environment from misuse. This should be of particular concern when the national security debate has developed from 2005. [[The president calls.]] The threat of communications companies sitting on all this information can be disastrous.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u46	A respectable president. It's just that it's very important. The Environment and Transport Committee will review this and will review the differences between a wide - eyed directive and the requirements set out here, as well as the problems that are specifically torn in the court and the differences between the directive and the existing issue of the bill. We have a very detailed requirement in the law and in the general personal protection principle for personal protection and the processing of personal information, as communications companies including ... shouldwork below. The contribution of the Personal Protection Program was also proposed to change current communications laws in 2018, but not their directives on storage information on the communications network, which was thought to have been a moderate measure in which these multi-counted interests, public interests and rights of individuals for the personal protection that must, of course, have been weighed. But it is proper to keep it in its place. This has been criticized, the evaluation of the police officer and others may have been further; some have wanted to shorten this period further. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to examine our own protection. We're protecting from possible large Internet crimes against our infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] Since we are talking about organized crime and other activities, we need to consider changing the environment at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u47	The president reminds us that speech time is one minute in answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u48	Madam President. What are we protecting by means of the data shield? asks the minister, pointing out that we are protecting our community from Internet crime. However, data storage is also creating the scene, literally creating a treasurebox for Internet crime, a database for every communications company with information about all communications that has taken place in the country for six months. I think it's more likely that this will be the issue of Internet crime and their tools than tools to fight them. What interests me most about the way this case is happening to us is that there is nothing to this opinion in the bill's report, nothing, even though it was just pointed to the matter during the conference that the stewards thought was so much during the last two Parliaments, and although it was repeatedly pointed to by members of the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u49	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech. I just want to step up to 72nd. The bill. Now this is the case in 2 mg. Thirty-seven. A validated telecommunication is required for about six months in consumer contracts' contracts with communications companies, and this is an arrangement that has been in communications since 2007. But 72 C.E. However, the bill we are discussing today says that it is forbidden in a contract to state a longer period of binding for consumers than 12 months. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how he feels about being doubled this maximal period of contracts, whether this is in his opinion of the law's purpose to increase the protection and choice of consumers and to promote active competition.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u50	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's question. This is something that the Environment and Transport Committee needs to work out a little bit thoroughly because even if I agree with it. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir mentioned earlier, that there seems to be a fairly full bill for what we receive, and there's been a lot of work in it, then the effect assessment is rather thin thirteenth. How does extending the binding of contracts to communications companies? Here, earlier today, in our discussion, we were wondering why. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason explains whether this could possibly lead to a decrease in prices because companies could offer us a figure out by the consumers praising them loyalty for a long time. My first feeling was just the opposite. What I first thought was that shorter ties could lead to consumers getting faster and harder on an enterprise and thus making better contracts, both for the quality of the ministry and for the price of it. But it's just not been evaluated in the bill. This is one of the major consumers involved in this bill, and there is no question about how the anticipated impact of these changes is. The report points out that the European regular work allows from six to 24 months, and it's just hanging around the center, saying 12 months on the bill, without necessarily seeing what's behind it. As I say, this is something a environmental and transport committee needs to be examined, one of many factors to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u51	A respectable president. I can say that this could be clearer and more explained in a report. Of course, the purpose of such a law must always be to ensure that the terms and procedures of communications companies with the source of contracts do not interfere with consumer transfers and are not effective competition for cleaning. Now, e.g. The consumer groups pointed out that short maximum tie time is just as good as keeping communication companies on their toes, thereby giving consumers a measure of space and freedom to pursue the most practical ways each time. So, yeah, I think it's something that needs to be considered, maybe it's right that we just stick to this six-month-hour time period. [[The president calls.]] And maybe because I'm opposed, is it? A senator knows that there is some particular basis for extending this time? [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A senator hears such arguments?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u52	Madam President. Perhaps it would be best just to refer to the evidence in the report. However, in view of the changed competitive conditions, it is suggested that the maximum binding time be extended to 12 months. Increased scope for these products may benefit consumers in terms of products/services and prices. I don't know, is that how we really define extra space? What are some of these? I would say that longer ties, binding consumers in longer contracts with the service providers, may allow extra space for the service workers, but not for the consumers. That's why my first reaction was, when I saw this, was that it was turning the wrong way, that the space should be just that consumers could be very important to the service workers so that the services are best and given at the most favorable price. [[The president calls.]] However, there may be other factors to come out when we have an analysis of this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u53	Madam President. Here we have a core interest bill, and it is large and large, with about 100 articles under, a global network of communication laws. It's important insides, as I say. There are factors to compete here. Here are things that depend on consumers. We've got some things to do with Iceland's security issues. Here are some aspects of the government's resistance to nature. Perhaps in the ground, you could talk about this as communication, communication, and national security. This bill for total law has been submitted, but it has not been achieved. I've been here in this hall asking members of Congress, who have previously been on the Environment and Transport Committee, what it looks like it's because of the government itself, i.e. that in one form of their contracts, after the council has passed, the matter simply is not high enough on top of the list of priorities. I think it's special because of the importance of the interests here and because when you look at the bill it seems like, as I've talked about, perfect. Of course, it's not free of politics, and we'll talk about it, and we'll deal with it, but it seems to me that the bill is well shaped and worked well. The objective of the bill is to ensure the availability, payment, efficiency, and, above all, safe communication in the country. This should always be our concern, but in today's situation, we are especially concerned. Indeed, increasing the protection and choice of consumers is said to promote active competition, which, of course, is always a good and noble goal. Practical investments are spoken of as aims and innovations and are being promoted by all the countries and businesses offering access to communication services and high - speed networks. Since certain articles on the part of the Parliament are being addressed today, I'm going to consider some factors that I look forward to discussing more carefully when it comes to the environment and transport committee and in particular checking out them. As I'm saying, I feel very special that this case has been presented to the last two Congress, but it has not been achieved because you see it, when you look at the bill, and when it comes to describing the present regular work, that existing communication laws need to be revised, and that's what they've done for a long time. We see that this is once more often proposed to be introduced by the European Parliament's directive on the sentence of European rules and we're speaking of it here as the code. This caught my attention when we got a presentation on the bill, even though the context may not contain large amounts of money, the State's cost may be up to 185 million. K. In a year due to the increased cost of telecommunications clinic work, and I now think, of the work assigned to the living room, that this is a natural cost. But I can't see that this financial budget is being expected. I've got the highest attention. A minister of that, and this was actually the first review of the situation on the environment and transport committee. But as I say, it's my hope that the bill will turn into law and it seems to me that there's a bill here that's a good idea to go through this time. The bill will interfere with the operations of communications companies, especially those who run a telecommunication network, which includes increased information demand. Of course, we know that telecommunications and communications services are essential to social and economic activities and the strength of communications networks is extremely important in all nations, but especially for countries such as Iceland because of local conditions. Today we may be deeply concerned with the dangers that Europe now faces in the face of a threat to the security of the continent, but I am here referring to the conditions we live in because of the natural climate under which we live. I mentioned earlier today that the North countries had recently made total laws on these points, and we are now missing - as I say, it is quite a mystery that this was not considered a challenge during the last term. We know, for example. That NATO has concluded that there is a serious safety hazard in nearly all modern activity on communication networks. When a community is built up as it is in modern times, it needs to be a support such as this, and thus protected the public that it is simply not acceptable to let it hang over us for years to update legislation in accordance with needs. We have the responsibility to ensure that important infrastructures, such as telecommunications, tolerance of security. There are these elements that I mentioned, and in today's situation, I think weight must be put on the bill. I discussed this when we were with the so - called Moust Bill for discussion. That's when I thought it was. Vilhjálmur Árnason's members, chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, and Nial Njáll Friðbertsson, are very good at the cards. But they had only extremely few cards, and a good blow would have been the drive to work on this bill right away. I remember that the official of the case spoke at the time, in connection with the Milan case, that this bill should be handed over because something could happen in the weeks ahead and because the network and communications services were the basis of many important functions, both economic and social, and that is absolutely correct. It is the first obligation of the government to take appropriate measures to ensure the security and reliability of communications in the country and, as I also say, the consumer's motive and competitiveness in terms of national security and public interests. I also wanted to mention in this context, because we are discussing communications security, that in 2016 an approved national security policy was an enormously important step. But you can see that there's not been much work to be done, at least not enough, with that policy then by the government. We know that since 2016 the changes in the international community we have seen have been dramatic. There has been a major development in communication, in the construction of fiber optics, in access to information, blocking information. There's a tremendous fermentation and rapidity, and I'm saying in this context the ever - increasing reports of Internet security that I think all of us are becoming more aware and more alert. Icelanders and Northern States often boast of being world champions of the Internet, i.e. In connection with bioavailability, in 2022 this race is almost finished. Today, it is a conversation about being on the Internet first, not about access, but about safety. I'm just gonna hang out at 82nd. for the tools and roles of a so-called Internet security team that will help a communications company to prevent, guide, and support quick action against danger. I know this isn't exactly what it's all about. This is a government company, but I believe that there is good reason to discuss it very closely within the Committee how the General sees this role and what it is intended for. Although the article reviews it in several ways that the countryside is detecting and handling threats and security problems in network and communications companies, preventing and reducing the risk of safety problems where possible, and controlling or minimising damage, there are many reasons for my hopes that the committee will discuss carefully and carefully. In telecommunications companies, the urgent obligation to respond immediately to the recommendation of this Internet security team on action against acute and non-employing networks is as appropriate in the case of very serious risks or events involving the network and information systems of important infrastructure or public institutions, public interest or national security. A significant debate has been made in connection with NATO and the core point that an attack on a single state is an attack on all, 5. .. that Internet attacks can reach the threshold of such attacks. Something that may have been removed some months ago, and was inside for that form, has become very important today. The Network Security Team is trying to identify the primary network threat and send out warnings in order to support a quick response to an environmental threat. This article will help us to understand the role and purpose of this role. But in the context of today's situation, as I've mentioned several times in this speech, in our presence in NATO, and in these factors that we see considerably differently than we did a few weeks ago, I know that the Environmental and Transport Committee will put everything into place that the problem will be done. There's a huge case here, both in terms of length and content. I think it might go through, and it's very important that they get careful publicity in view of the interests behind them. I would've liked to see the bill become legal until we're going to make all our effort to get a good, careful discussion in line with the above interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good and extensive speech. There were various things that caught my attention. Like what? Of course, a senator discussed this matter primarily as to the safety, safety of the people at home and on their journeys. The bill contains a section that targets emergency communications, emergency and security exchanges, and communications at times of danger, which are the regulations of 95,◯100. par. They actually deal with the number we use when facing distress. Here's the number 112 we know so well. Of course, we personally hope that we will not have to call the 911 line, but it is absolutely necessary. I actually come up in my first answer to ask who. A member of Congress, who has very much experience in the criminal environment as the former prosecutor, is concerned with the law that telecommunications companies are completely forbidden to obtain phone calls made to 112 as well as the possibility that communications companies are obliged to transfer the phone call and communications data and other information, that it can provide the receiver, 112, information about the phone number, and where they are located. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u55	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala gave Helgadóttir for the question. I think it's important. Of course, it's an important service, but here I think the lawgiver is simply flaunting an important goal that is so important that it is being transferred to law. I think it's totally boarded that the telecommunications companies make no disagreement on this point, but that it's still good to make the knots so that it's guaranteed by law. I agree with it. A senator says that in this bill, when you begin to examine not just a number of articles but the red thread, we are reviewing the security of the people in the country and different manifestations. 112 may be the most clear tool and what little children already know. So it's a good trick, and it's a good, reasonable, beautiful article.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Maybe I'd like to ask why. A senator's importance is that there is a relationship for all the people wherever they are in the country, with the rest of their number, 112. If you have an accident or if you are attacked, it is built up a network of national communications and thus maintained in such a way that you are not able to make a long time on the major highways of the country, on the round road, so you can't even call this number. What does that count? A senator needs to be done in order for the government to determine his duty to ensure the country's unregistered access to this number? Finally, I'd like to ask you a question. A senator, just for fun, if she's ever come across the number 116-000 and 116-11, but these are the number mentioned in 97 g. as a reminder line for children who are missing and helping phone for children. Is this something a natural? A senator has seen before?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u57	Madam President. Maybe I'll just start with the last question. No, I've never heard of this number and I've never seen it. I think that this may not be one of the telephone numbers that quickly comes to the minds of people under these circumstances. I know, however, that the police are available to everyone through their general number. Unless this is part of a presentation or something, I think that there may now be a fundamental situation about how people approach the police, which is also through the Internet today. Regarding the other question, i.e. for people's status and circumstances, especially in the country, which is in real and personal danger of being broken down by services, basic services, it's a very urgent job for a country like Iceland to always guarantee it. I see that 100th. it is an attempt to allow a minister to, under these circumstances, recommend measures to maintain this workload of service. I would also be interested to hear about it from the highest level. Ministers in general of the Ministry, in terms of the situation we live in here in Iceland, are taking what steps to work in general. I feel confident that all those matters are in the first place and are in a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u58	Madam President. For the third time, we're getting into this council a bill for a new overall telecommunication. An open radio law needs a substantial review. I think we all agree on that. It is obvious that the huge advances in communications technology require a great revision of the law, so it has to be said, as it is, that it is a great responsibility for the government to have been involved in the necessary changes in communication laws over the past few years, unfortunately. There was disproportionateness between the states to finish this essential matter, not even twice, but twice. Now, for the third time, we've got it in, and you're wondering what's causing it. What factors were the delay? Was it possible that they were aware that there was a fundamental change in the telecommunications available in Iceland today? Could it be that all or part of them were aware of the importance of not having a rule that ensured that infrastructure was not sold out of the country, that a safety network would have to be built for the entire population in the country? Why do I ask that? Yes, because from the very first time this was discussed at the council, Míla has been sold out of the country, even though the trade has not been fully completed. The U.S. Contestant is on the subject. But not only that but also other communications companies have made great changes. The telecommunications company Nova, I don't know any better than the sale of the infrastructure. You may wonder, " Is this the reason why the matter could not go through? ' We all speak here, both management and government, about the importance of this important document being fulfilled. V.E.G. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has appeared in the media of the day and complained about a more objective discussion at the council. He speaks of the government as holding the council hostage when it is known that the government to which he is the minister is making this case for the third time. The third time we're here in 1st. On this matter, it is his government, which is made up of the same categories. There is, of course, a new ministry to present this case. It's no longer him, it's a new minister, chief. College, industrial and innovation ministers, who suddenly have their communications. Yet, it is the same government that makes this case one more time. Why don't they finish the case? Why have the government groups been getting in the way of the case? This is a very important national security issue. That's when it's important to finish it. The one here called for the bill to enter the council here in December rather than the little one who was being mixed up. Environmental and Transport Committee. Why couldn't we just have the insurance then? Now we're here at the end of March, and I can explain that I think there is as much time left, possibly fewer meetings days left, and fewer committee days, today, March 29th and until the planned end of Congress, but when the Migraine project was submitted to the council in much confusion and had to be completed by the end of January or when it was approved. I think we could have finished this at the time, just like the Milan case, if we'd gotten it in because it's a matter we know well. This is coming in the third time. It should have really been that way. With a bill for telecommunication, the aim is to coordinate the national rights of a joint communication order. This will ensure available, practical, efficient and safe communications in this country. Clearly, goals are important and all you can do is celebrate the fact that the bill has been submitted to the General Assembly, for safe communication is a fundamental precept for national security. And there is little we can talk about national security these days. In view of national security, the difficulty and the delay in the case are very serious, but the bill contains important principles for security because of the development of so - called laptops. The purpose of that law is to take into account the growing needs and demands of most countries, of course not all but most of the kingdoms we compare with, have felt compelled to attend to provide security for their interiors. The objective is to reduce the likelihood that foreign countries, which feel that they are interested in domestic interests, can practice here what has been called spying, and is no doubt still. It is extremely important to try to avoid such a thing from being here. In the changed reality that we are looking forward to, not just in Iceland, but around the world following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, it should be top priority to ensure safe communication in this country. To that end, it is not enough to accept only new communication laws, as it is necessary to secure and trust the infrastructure. They need to provide funding for the telecommunication agency so that it can take care of the monitoring role that is being greatly increased by the bill. She can try to make sure that these infrastructures are always there. A remote exchange agency is now able to assess the risks on the basis of safety concerns, assess the risk of national netting, or become highly dependent on one of the manufacturers, and is permitted by the Agency to bind the permits conditions that contribute to the multiplicity of equipment. - Madam President. It would be nice if it were also here in a glass of water for speakers. I also want to discuss the safety and security of the inhabitants of the country. A basic network of communications is an enormously important safety instrument to which governments are responsible for making sure that it is accessible to all the people of the country. But, Madam President, I'm afraid not. It's worth reviewing the question. The head of the welfare committee, anyway. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir Liquík, of expensive Castlight Field by dawn. It involved the availability of the country's health care. Of course, being a member of the country, she knows very well how poor a communication relationship can be in the country. I know that too. I'm driving a lot west, and there you are lucky if you get on the phone along the way. But, hey. A senator and the head of a health - care committee spoke of having some kind of access to health care because at least some health care professional could call even if they could not be contacted by a health care professional but then entered: Well, where a telephone contact is available. Madam President. You see, this is the reality in Iceland in 2022 that there is not even a telephone service all over the world. Can you imagine? This rich society has not guaranteed that if anything happens, all the people of the country will have the option to call the 911 line. We saw this in the storm of 2019, in December, that it was not just because of lay down but simply by towns outside the service area. Of course, power outage was then too, but there was no phone contact. We have also seen this on highways in the country that have led to death because emergency assistance could not be called. Those involved in such an accident had to drive a long distance to get in the phone service in order to call the operator. Of course, it's not acceptable, Madam President. We have to do better than that. I wondered, " Is this in any way being dealt with in regulations 38? ' I can't figure it out. It allows a telecommunication agency to place signals on telecommunications companies and other parties, as detailed in the provision, and there are very many factors. Frankly, I don't see it, and I look forward to winning this case at the moment. The environment and transportation committee where I'm sitting. It says, by permission of the President: A telecommunication agency can recommend a communication agency that offers noncommunication services to access inactive networks or offer regional public services if it is necessary to provide regional access to wireless services and not to have other similar and practical ways to provide access to end users. I don't know if this is what it's all about or if it's somewhere else in this big bill of hundreds of articles. I was trying to see if we were there with regulations, clear regulations, that it would just have to be done for the ministry. For a 71 st. The quality of communication services is also being referred to, as it is a minimal foundation service, and a remote exchange agency is permitted to set rules for such service. But I don't know that there were any rules about it before, i.e. the duties, without being adjourned, are guaranteed because the hang is on the line, so to speak. A respectable president. I'm glad this bill came out. It is evidence, however, that there is yet another lack of solidarity within the government, that it has not been completed until now, but let us hope that the government's position will succeed in bringing it to an end, as did many other developments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I might want to reiterate first regarding the safety of the people as well as the rest of the day. A senator came in, that this bill provides the exact telecommunications agency with permission to define the frequency share. It contains, for example, There is a possibility of making a requirement and staging a communication company to provide one another with a big service. That is a requirement, including. of the 14th rib. This bill, that calls don't wear out, may not wear out on highways as it has been, and this is extremely important and consistent with the changes in this bill, which is, of course, a competitive market. We have an important competition and competition for communication, and this bill is designed to promote active competition and also a very important integration factor for the security of people. Here we are implementing a cohesive European principle and the law is not allowing the law to exist because of it. A senator only stepped on it, limitations on property, and it just doesn't change, whatever property is, what company laws and rules apply. It rests upon them in a very clear sense here, out of possession. Then, in view of the nation's completely independent security concerns, the bill contains principles based on risk estimates and requirements that we feel we must take to ensure that a remote exchange agency can intervene in order to ensure the same. shock-bearing communications, and that's what counts; how our system sambers, how it works for consumers, it's the security of users, the opportunity, and not who it belongs to. This may be the main thing I wanted to point out, especially about the safety of the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u60	Madam President. Yes, there are many things we can thank the European Union, e.g. To create a rule as required by the communications companies to provide communication services and not hang on the line, as I put it, but to allow the line to go forward without the call broken. Then, with the infrastructure, whether it is certain that the frozen infrastructure exists in the roads, there is one thing that, for example, replaces it, that it is guaranteed that there is no radio or cell phone contact on the surface of the highway, which is our ring road. But it just has to make sure that it does.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u61	A respectable president. I can't help but agree with what. Senator. This is our mission here, both regarding the fiber - optic development that has been done and since finishing the country to ensure that we have built the whole country so that people wherever they live, they can do a lot of work on distant jobs, jobs without location. This bill is so rich with so many opportunities. We may have discussed the most security, national security, and the law that has been involved in the last days and weeks, but the bill is also so much else. In fact, there is a requirement for a legal or home public service that the State provides structural support, including The work of the telecommunication fund, which is of utmost importance, is, of course, only opportunities to do better and exciting work ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u62	Madam President. I certainly agree that there is an exciting opportunity ahead of today for modern Iceland because jobs without a location demand the presence of infrastructure, e.g. that we have stable electricity That is not because we lack energy that is not constant but because of the lack of electricity that the government has, unfortunately, failed to care for the transport systems of electricity in Iceland. I now lived in Bolungarvík, one of the most beautiful places in Iceland and the best places to raise children, and while I was there, I had to go to college and have the nature of the case, as sometimes to take a test that was online. That's when I had more trouble than not having my electricity gone. It wasn't crazy about the weather, but it just went electric, and I couldn't take the test. And that was not in the last century. It was just the other day. It's not that long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u63	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. Last year, I'd like to come in and see what it's like. A senator spoke about cell phones or GSMs on the highway. Like what? In fact, a senator has been placed in Bolungarvík, a beautiful location, and the problems will improve that lead to electrical security on the way there. I might want to refer to what was said in the words of the highest. Minister on the counter to what. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, who described the great opportunity involved in the bill, which is now the very basis for the criticism that has been presented here on the late stage for the contribution of the case and the outcome of the last council that was very different. Hv. A senator has been living in the country, and I allow myself to state that since the time I remember so much about when, I'm not sure that the cell phone service on the way to Bolungarvík really improved. There were a number of assumptions about the service providers back then, which have been succeeding. Regarding the opportunity involved in this bill for motivation and, in fact, possible forcedness, if necessary, for the management crisis: what should be considered. A senator that there can remember much about the quality of service in the region as to the common cell phone service on the highways of the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u64	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm trying to figure out the question. I kind of hope that. A senator has been asking about the development of the quality and has there been any improvement, or does this bill come up with something to improve? I can't quite figure it out. I can say, though, that it has only improved in the years since I began to get into the habit of coming to the West. The roads have improved a bit, too. Of course, it is fundamental if it is true and if it succeeds, as was promised of the highest order. Minister, to have a cell phone system together as promised to be in this bill, to ensure that one cell phone cell will escape before the phone connection breaks down and moves another. But I wondered, " Is these infrastructure adequate, whether the relationship is simply satisfying? ' Of course, it's not limited to the West, but I know it's in many other places like this. Do we have enough nets sent to make sure that we have this contact around the country? I'm not quite sure. But it's gotten better, Almighty, in the last 20 years, another would be now, I'd say, in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u65	Madam President. Thank you. The senator answered and apologized for how vague I was in my question. When I was in my seat, I realized that it was hard to determine exactly what I was going to do. But my point was, in effect, to get the senator's assessment of the great quality of life that involves having a cell phone service on highways improved and at the same time declaring that this is happening a long time later but could have been the result of the demurrection of the government parties and their amazing action at the last council. During the past 20 years, there was a marked improvement in the number of invitations and support on the cell phone, but I think it was getting worse in recent years because of these restrictions on business contracts. That's the knot we're cutting with this case. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm terribly frustrated that the government has drawn this longer than was needed and possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u66	Madam President. Yes, it is better to understand the question. Of course, it is a fundamental requirement for having this relationship because we now base our community on it. We could possibly live here 100 years ago without a phone connection, then society was just a different kind of thing. But today, a basic service is to have this relationship, it is necessary in life and work around the country. And because jobs without location are now being talked about, we do not do so without having an adequate relationship. On the other hand, I am very hesitant to rejoice greatly because it is also in the overall health - care laws, in the Council of Health Policy Directive until 2030, that all the people of the country should have access to health care. [[The president calls.]] But it's not like that. It is the government to enforce the law, to implement it, but it does not, so let us see. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u67	President. I found it interesting when it happened. A senator mentioned how it really is the government that has taken this issue and is memorable toward the end of the last term when this case accidentally gets stuck behind Congress agreements. The government said: "Yes, this is a very important matter, and we are quite ready to get it out of Congress and get it on. But this could not be done, for if this issue had gone out of the transport minister, all the other ministers would also have needed one matter, and the government could not have found fault with reaching that conclusion. It was the government that held this case as a hostage, very interesting. In this regard, there are several aspects of this matter that are much older. I remember when I was on an environment and transportation committee when we were dealing with what is at 83rd. the network security team and that if a remote room thinks it is necessary, the telecommunications company and network security team should make a contract for the installation and management of a technical monitoring service that could include equipment or a network related to the monitoring of a network security team. This means that the Internet security team can only go and post equipment into the computer network of the telecommunications company and simply be spying. It's just that way. The telecommunications company is being planted. This is a point we had been dealing with in the past, and here it finds its way back to our level once it has been rejected over and over because it is simply dangerous to have such equipment on top of an experienced telecommunication system used by the companies. [[The president calls.]] It's a problem to add some other tool that's not necessarily compatible, that's a big problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I read in the local media that one of the greatest threats we are facing is Internet attacks. It was even before Russia began a war against a free sovereign state, Ukraine. After the war has begun, there's been some 5,000 times the number of assaults on the Internet, I don't know it well enough, I don't know it. I think terrorism can even be as devastating if you attack these shallow structures like a building. Then I'm not talking about human life. But, yes, we can get inside our whole system. Our whole system can be paralysed. I don't know enough equipment or any other equipment. How can you protect yourself? Maybe it's because I'm not Pirati, it can be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u69	Hear, hear...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u70	I'm just full of shit, that's all. I have to admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u71	Madam President. Maybe it'll be. A senator only as she gets to know this better, who knows? But this is a key to the way these devices work. A communication device with its own requirements and quality control and so on is used, and when additional devices are added to monitor its function in a certain way, they can have new consequences, added to certain errors and the likes of the standard activity expected to function without extra parts of it. In fact, it is stated that a communications company is obliged to house and remain free of the equipment of a telecommunications agency. - All of a sudden, time changed for me. I can't quite figure out what happened out there. But I just wanted to draw attention to what. The senator's work of this is due to her seat on the Environment and Transport Committee, to specialise this point. [[The president calls.]] I know that there are probably comments from our leading experts on the Internet security issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u72	So that's one minute in the second round in the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u73	Madam President. You're never supposed to make a promise, especially in the public speaking chair, but I'm going to make a promise. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, for I will observe this particular law. I've marked it specifically into the bill. I'll ask myself a lot of questions along with a little dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, a member of the Council of Pirati, may not have become the problem of Pirati's safety. Now it's a test. But together we will form an Internet security force that controls opposition. Environmental and transport committees with cognition. A Christian woman named Alfred Þorbjörg Sigríður, Gunnlaugsdóttir of Gunnoll, who is a senator on the committee. I feel that we're going to be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u74	Madam President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Gísli Héusni Ólafsson. Keeping good communication is a vital source of communication. We've all experienced the experience of going through the country falling in and out of a phone relationship, so I'd like to ask her why. A senator's opinion of telecommunications systems and rural areas may be improved by this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u75	Madam President. I think road transport sure got better, but there's still a lot of dead spots. One of the things I soon learned when I was putting up telecommunications all over the world was that the theoretical spread of cell phones is pretty cool on a map, we take care of this area, but the real spread is not as good. There will be all these spots we know, e.g. If you have a cell phone from the Shimanum and you drive through the menstrual pass on your way into the dress, the call falls down. In fact, if you drove through Kopavangar himself, this happened once too. I hope that part of this answers to a question why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u76	Madam President. Maybe there was just one thing. Hv. A senator apparently knows very much about telecommunication, but does he think that in this bill - now I may be revealing my ignorance of this, since I am a new senator and have not been able to study this - is there anything that would contribute to the better communication of roads and rural areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u77	Madam President. I have to admit that I have not been able to read through all 131 pages in the threshing floor either. 666. But it has been so many countries around the world that communications companies pay a certain price, which, in turn, should be used to improve and pay for setting up services on these spots. Now I don't know if it's still in this bill, it's been in the previous law, I think, but that's exactly the kind of thing that needs to be done. You need to set aside the money available for permission and rates and things and use it to improve the relationship in the areas where it's still bad and I hope to the highest level. Minister has made such a law here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u78	Madam President. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator referred to his experience in foreign soil and his work there in conjunction with a factor he felt was missing in this bill. Now I'm on an Environmental and Transport Committee that will receive this bill for treatment and would be interested in hearing more about it from the senator. I've been thinking about it from one side to another about these dangers that can be found in nature itself and in the reality that we like to talk about as new but now is not really new. I think Estonia was one of the first kingdoms to be attacked by organized attacks as a state. It was in April 2007, an organized attack on the media, websites of public institutions, the banking system, and an incident that changed their outlook and rhythm. I'd be interested to hear what it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u79	Madam President. We are living in a time of international communication. Here in the past, to take down a telephone system, you would have had to use the methods in the film a woman goes to war and pick down the phone wires, much more complex than perhaps being able to sit on Tenerie's beach and have a computer in her hand and attack a whole state. Unfortunately, as a community in Iceland, we have not taken this threat seriously enough. It may be as if with many other threats we need to deal with in this country; only after the threat has arrived as soon as we begin to build the repairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u80	Madam President. I'll agree with it at what? A senator, who is often in a person's life or in a community situation, may feel that it is not until after some experience is dealt with. But because of him. A senator referred to society, of course, as one of the basic functions of the government. This reminded me of things I heard at a network security conference that I have previously quoted in this sermon that the North countries still speak of themselves in this way in 2020 and even 2022 that we are very soon on a global scale because there is access to the Internet so good. There's nothing to be proud of today, that we're so connected. The transition that has something to say whether nations are at their best in these matters today has the security factor to do, how well we are individually, and as a state.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u81	Madam President. Yes, it is so that as soon as we became associated with a community, the threat grew greatly. Just think of it if your electronic papers stop working and whatever service you're using every day that will stop them working. Imagine if an Internet connection with foreign lands falls out. They also release all mail services, e-mail services, communications services, everything we're using. It is also true that most Web sites in Iceland have parts that use foreign service, so Web sites stop working. How much longer do these things have to be done before we've all come in because we're all crazy because we can't get on the Internet anymore? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u82	Madam President. I come up here to thank the senator for the speech of 1st. about this important bill, about communication. I have to use this opportunity to point out to the United States that this law comes from the European Union through the EEA Convention like so many other things that have improved life and competition in this country in recent decades. The consumer protection comes from Brussels, whether one likes it or not. I want to pray. A senator asking me only on the price charge. I would like to ask if he evaluated whether the currency is really sufficient in terms of the value here being assigned to private companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. I hope there's another senator in the hall who didn't hear it was the third form of communication. With regard to the cost of living, it's the resource that really needs to be paid for. But we also need to consider how we make use of the money we earn. I mentioned here the way to make use of these incomes to cover the cost of setting up telecommunications in scattered areas, along roads, and other areas. Different routes have been taken. There's been an auction. It would also have been for a fixed price, and just as in the fishing field, it is a natural question of how to do this. What is most important to me is how we use it. This, in turn, should guide the degree to which we need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u84	President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. Of course, it is very important how the government uses the income it provides from such costs and from a resource. Of course, I believe that these incomes should be used to level bioavailability and balance facilities, including between parts of the country, especially when it comes to communication. It's easier talking, though, than getting there. I'll admit that I'm going to look at the bill a lot better than I think it's like this, that it's an incomplete resource model that's being worked on here, although, of course, I know it's being paid for the frequency range. Then, as a body of Congress, we need to examine very carefully what the government will earn of this and how it will be most effective in ensuring national telecommunications.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u85	Madam President. I couldn't agree more. Senator, it's important that there's some transparency in this. I believe it is important that the Environment and Transport Committee handles Article 13. and the models that are there. We have also talked a lot about Internet security, and it is not free to run a network security team; nor is it easy to hold on to all this important infrastructure, and it is not free. So I think that when that model is made, about what to charge for this resource, we need to make sure that it is equal to the access, but also that it helps to cover the costs of holding as important as this one's talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u86	Madam President. In many ways, this was an interesting talk, and there are many good things to be able to ask about here. But time is limited, so I'm going to try to determine the question. I wouldn't even look to Pirata for advice in all fields, but it will not be taken from this category that he has been usually appointed people with a lot of knowledge about computer and communications technology, and I don't think there's any offense in saying that the sect has a roots in a group of hackers even as well as other computer experts. That's why I wanted to ask you why. A senator whether he thinks he needs some special information about network and information security involved in this bill. I'm not asking for a technical transfer in a one-minute counter, but maybe all the chapters are missing about what we need to be doing in this area?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u87	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of both beautiful words to Pirata and a good question. I think there are a lot of things in this bill that come up on a frame about the issues we've been doing so far in terms of Internet security. What I miss on the bill, when it comes to Internet security, is that I would have liked more cooperation with other technology companies in the country. It's, for example. to a great deal of highly experienced technology in public security and telecommunications companies, and I would have liked to see more cooperation there because just as when we had to deal with the pandemic and we became public security, that is exactly what needs to be done when it comes to Internet security. All of us need to think about Internet security.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u88	Madam President. Hv. A senator mentioned the high court rate, which, of course, is a major part of this matter, and he specifically identified the importance of what he called an emergency and was interesting to hear. It's for a senator. But what I wanted to ask about is in that the rights of frequency are limited: is the driving force. A senator will be pleased with what arrangements are made? It is possible that such rights can not be placed on oers without any condition, but this is part of basic infrastructure and needs to be viewed only by which company comes and offers the highest price each time. The overall interest of society has to be considered in such large languages. But would it be better for the distribution of the dues?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u89	Madam President. I think there's an example that shows that the distribution has been done well, and no doubt it has also been an example of its transparency and may have been too low to pay. There have been different ways around the world where this is going on, and I would certainly, for those on a environmental and transport committee, to see which models have worked, have been used here on a verse of those that have been used abroad. There isn't anything new to sell access to the times, and it's important, as I mentioned, that it doesn't exist forever. A good example is that now we have basically gone to digital television, and in many lands, for example. using the frequency used by the old analogue and TV to broadcast Internet waves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u90	Madam President. We're here to discuss a big, important case, a bill for communication. This is the third time, as we have seen, which the matter is being discussed here in the Senate Hall, and I have hoped that it will be over in the spring soon and safely. I was on the environment and transport committee for the first two times, but I don't do it now, so I don't have the same approach to the case as then and I don't intend to go to the depth of the case like that, other senators have done before me, including. An agent on the Environment and Transport Committee, why. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir. But I'd like to kill on a few things. It's true what's been reported here and the highest. The minister of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörn's daughter also made his reply earlier today that the bill is certainly not just a matter of security and defense that the members of the Parliament have naturally spoken about here in view of the situation. It's a bill that deals with important structures, with conditions of residence simply around the country. It's kind of twofold, in terms of habitat conditions in the country, just that you can have a head, then in various parts of the country, and that's where a pot has been broken and hopefully is improving. We're talking about competition bill, consumers, and then this threat of security and the State's resistance to disaster, whether it's natural or external. Radio security and national security simply depend on us. The aim is to ensure access, comb, economic, efficient and safe communications in this country, to include this, and to increase consumer protection and options, to promote effective competition, economic investments and innovations in the telecommunications market. This is what we have to do with our system. Ensure that all citizens and businesses have access to communication services and high - speed networks, fixed and wireless networks. That is a fundamental requirement for us. As a result of advances in technology and service, current regulations in many respects are out of date, and it is long ago time to take a handsome hand here, and many members have done well over why the government's first scheme has not worked. But we hope that there will be a change now. There are some things I would like to talk about, and maybe I'm going to be allowed, because I'm at the top. A minister sits in the hall, asking her to answer me if she has time to do so, and to shed light on something I'm thinking about. But I want to start with one thing. We know that telecommunication and communications services are the basis for the vital social and economic activities and our social development and that the power of communications networks is important, especially in such countries as Iceland, with its geographic conditions. The North countries have the total laws that we need now based on the building of laws and the setting of our total interest. We know that the Atlantic Union has concluded that there is a serious safety risk in nearly all modern activity dependent on telecommunications. Therefore, Member States must ensure that important infrastructures such as communication infrastructures, tolerance of safety and the ability to resist natural hazards, although this is all they can do. Then, Mrs. President, when I was preparing for it, I began to recall that in 2018, only on the other side of the corner, Iceland boasts of a high-level global teleportation relationship in information technology and communication, but we have a long way to get the same status on the Internet security. There has been a meeting of the Council of Northern Ireland 2018, where the Council's Presidency Committee agreed to direct them to the Norwegian government to increase the cooperation of the countries on the Internet as well as cooperation with the Baltic States. It seems that, and that may be because of the importance there, especially these countries have reached the longest level of online security. For example, NATO's AIDS website, or Internet protection, is located in Tallinn. This fine proposal was adopted in the Council of Northern America, by the Council of Prime Ministers of the Northern Country, but not on one side because representatives of the left groups of the Council of Northern America did not support this proposal, including one of our government groups, the one who takes the presidency, the left green. That was interesting then, and it is all so frightening today. That's just the situation. I realize that here representatives of the left green don't come up in a pit and talk against us getting caught up in Internet security, not resisting our cooperation with friends and nations that are on our side in NATO. But there's no question as to whether this problem with this bill can be caused in some way by this position because it's a natural concern for cooperation in these security and defences that can be fully developed that it will be necessary to cooperate, to be fought against us. I think it's interesting, and I just wanted to keep it in mind that if we're going to have a place in cooperation with other nations, we're also going to have to take part in this project. I know that in such a network interaction, the chain is not stronger than the weakest link, and we cannot allow ourselves to be that link. There is something else that has to do with online security that I especially wanted to mention. Then we come to this fine article, 87. g., about security benefits due to the development of communications networks. Among the major newcomers and changes in the bill according to current communication laws - now I've become like my partner, puk. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, losing me in paperwork. However, in this article of the bill it is stated that safety measures should be taken to address high risk factors for the development, structure and management of communication networks. In other words, the secretary is authorized to set a regulation on the implementation of a set set set of national communications networks that are considered vulnerable to the general public interest or national security status of the Member State's manufacturer as a member of the national security team or state of the European Economic Area. This broad legal authority allows the Minister to take such decisive measures without going through the council at any time, and it is not explained sufficiently, I think, how this security evaluation is conducted at a time, and what status of communications companies is if they are ordered to change equipment. Is there a right to reform, etc.? The question that I would be interested in getting a conversation about with the highest. The minister is: Was this the only way to create the knots here that, without the permission of the council, a minister or a government could enforce security and the demands of others without their own opinions and without the presence of the council? That's kind of what I'm interested in because I don't really believe anything else, especially in view of the length of the time involved in the council, but that this was examined because the criticism has come up and these questions arise. Is there a burden of evidence, needs to be some kind of information? I don't think anyone who watches the world is in doubt that things at least for the reason for this dispute involving communications giants - we're talking about the Chinese telecommunications of Huawei and the U.S. demand - facing pure business interests. Are we sure enough that we are not playing games there and that we are not applying this regulations, this nuclear principle, unless we are sure the safety is threatened? Somehow I need to be more sure there and at least To have a word with the Minister about it. Then maybe it's the regular in the bill. There's still plenty to take. We know that during the introduction of European regulations, the Icelandic government, and now I look back for a quarter of the century, set heavier lines or more narrow limits than the European Union has ever done, let something float, take advantage of the journey, as it were. Just to be said, it's not the most fun or easy to read, and sometimes it just slipped through. The question is, Is it possible here, and it would be nice to have the highest perspective? Minister of how well this has been guarded. I ask because the representatives of the industry, which had hearsay, employment organization on the other hand, and industrial organizations, feel that this is especially relevant to this bill and suggest that it be revised. Now I know that this organization is a very powerful interest organization for its clients, and that's a good reason to keep that in mind. But this is at least a question that arises, especially because it is very important that at the same time as we secure the safety and interests of consumers and build a secure network, they are committed to their business competitiveness because they are now part of all of this. I'm one of those who believe that if corporate competitiveness is loyal, we're ensuring the interests of consumers in the same way. That's what we do with it, including it. making sure that laws do not become more burdensome than necessary. Finally, I'm wondering about the same things I've been doing here in my last few talks and discussions, which is the payment on a repercussion. These are limited quality. I thought it was very interesting to hear a word. Sveinbjarnardóttir In fact, a former environmental minister, a country of country's population, comes into contact with most of the eyeglasses that are good, especially in our modern times. She said if I have a right to this so-called resource problem, I need it. I wondered about that, too. This is a natural sensitive puzzle when we look at the exact need to build up and we need to be sure that we are competitive, but we also need to watch these items. Then I'd be interested to hear, so I can carry on with my wish list to the highest. Minister, if there was anything that would have been examined, i.e. how this distribution is being accomplished. This is an advantage for us to discuss matters here carefully in 1 Corinthians. that there is a right way to become the most advanced member of the committee's work, so it is possible that this is one of the highest. A minister aims at the environment and transport committee, which, of course, is also with the environment on his own, to take a closer look. I find this to be an interesting input, because it is always increasing our limited resources. As they grow more and more precious, we become more and more important to care for their distribution. I'm kind of at the end of the line. Here and where, these things are most important to me from my limited perspective on the matter. Of course, I will closely monitor the case in the case of a committee and look forward to getting it back in 2nd. First and last, I look forward to seeing it become a reality that we are being given strict laws on communication that match the times we are living in. The importance is so clear to us in every respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u91	A respectable president. It's good that I talk fast, I'm gonna try to get it in. About 87th. Perhaps first, there were, of course, other ways between the last occurrence of the bill. Is it better to go somewhere else? So they wondered very clearly in cooperation with the State Department, especially because it is very important, is very clear and must be very clear in this discussion, that if there is to be a limit to the use of equipment - it is not to be said in the bill that it should be done but that it needs to be subsistence and logical support of all parts of communication networks, their whole or in a certain proportion, they are considered vulnerable to public interest and national security. It then takes considerable support and the public risk to apply the article in the event of 3. mg, which I thought was a struggle. A senator was primarily talking about in 87. .., the need to receive reviews from a secretary who handles foreign and protective matters, public security and law enforcement and restrictions may both require that the equipment be provided by the manufacturer in a state in which Iceland works as a security partner at or within the EEA or that he has been approved for comparable uses in countries with which Iceland works in security. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, but I can't get over more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u92	Thank you very much. Ministers before, and it's good to hear that this has been done carefully and carefully. You're right, time isn't long, but I'd like to ask anyway. If there is a time for reviews from these advisers, was that it was considered to include the council in this? Then I speak, not of routine committees, but of discussions during the council. What may have happened since the moment it was first spoken of in the first version of communication is that the whole community and the world are inverted because of the crowning virus epidemic, and I think that all of us must agree that the Council was a real test and failed in the most stressful measures by governments in various times, and it certainly was not to slow down anything, rather, to strengthen the position of the government and individual ministers in difficult situations. So I ask, Was it examined making the council - convergence is now correct, though it is the only thing that comes to mind than to include the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u93	A respectable president. For national security it is also a set of non-disclosure regulations, and so if this is to be taken into consideration, careful attention should be given in this context. Of course, the minister of telecommunications may be relieved, but whether he will be involved in a conversation with the Council of National Security, or in some other way he would need to examine us for our success in this article. Many other countries may have this in protection laws or special security laws, general sources, but a threat that is believed to be in general that the security of the state by law is, of course, a matter of protection and security in the sense of defense law. In the context of the introduction, I just want to say that there's a little space, it's limited, and it's not the goal of going beyond the code exactly, but the only way to meet the requirements for induction is to take into account the circumstances of Iceland and the national situation and the tools and the importance of strengthening communications, competition, protection of consumers and other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u94	Madam President. I appreciate the answer. First we're back to 3 mg. 87. g., it's just very good to hear, and I think this is something we'll talk about in the second round when the case comes in here for processing and approval. But it is good to hear from the highest level. Minister, this case has been handled well. I'll say the same about the induction. This is a natural thing that we need to be more careful, and for example, the convention program will be on the next few days, and it is usually burned to the point where they are not spoken, and there may be one reason why there are few if there are some who realize it when things get so complicated. But I'm going to thank the highest. Minister for answering my request to come up here, I missed her when she recommended the case, and merely repeat my request that this case be well treated by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u95	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son for a fine talk The Senator introduced a case that I must admit that I did not have time to enter my speech, but it is important in the context of this matter, and that is the position in which the communications companies find themselves, is the result of making weighty decisions. How is the decision, the protest, what harmful action is possible, and so on? All of this is vital because the risks of such an impending cost eventually end with the consumer. It's just that way when we look over a longer period of time. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator, who has served as a representative of the Environment and Transport Committee during the past terms, as far as it is best, in addition to this, is missing clearly as to the status of communications companies in the event of any of these burdensome means. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. You're absolutely right. It's kind of uncomfortable. This is where the top end went. Ministers over certain national security issues, and they need to take care of some of these measures, this is an enormous intervention, without truly knowing what is behind them. I'm particularly worried about this because, what? A senator may well remember, as I recall, that when the matter was being carried out by the Environment and Transport Committee two years ago, it can be linked to the arrival of the U.S. vice president of the United States into Iceland and what to say, a word between him and the Chinese ambassador on these matters, and then it was just so plain to see how vastly commercial interests are there too. Now, I don't want to minimize the other benefits, I'm just saying that if we don't have the information about whether we weigh, when and where, it's hard to figure things out. So my answer is, really, that I don't feel comfortable with this, and I'd say that it's one of the important roles of the Committee that now gets the case over it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u97	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, I think it's the way it is in this case, like so many others, that the government will just let it decide how to work out because it's an enormous interest, not just for the communications companies, but for consumers, where the cost ends up, and then, of course, for national security things that we want to protect so well. Still, this cannot be understood, so it just happens somehow, and I feel that we here at the council need to have an opinion on it and to decide in what way the companies that perform this service are in a relative position in terms of burdensome intervention. Now I know what to do. A senator is no longer a representative of the Environment and Transport Committee, but I'm amazed. A member of the Parliament, since the Committee is not in the room, reminding them of this point, to be maintained on a environmental and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u98	Madam President. This is exactly the case, and I appreciate it. I think it's something we all need to be very alert to. I want to see what the Post and Communication Department says in its reviews as it is just bringing this matter to its attention and worrying about the negative consequences of the competitiveness of enterprises are disturbed by government action, in the context of this interpretation of 87.g. So says, with President's permission: ▪ In this light, PFS is important in strengthening the Agency's knowledge of the structure and activities of 5G Farnets so that the Agency can work with stakeholders to find a practical and safe way to achieve the objectives of the bill, without disrupting competition beyond what is necessary. That's a very good point, too. Our knowledge of these matters needs to be with us, so we do not accept what others have to say about it. [[The president calls.]] It's always very important, but I think it's more important than just the rest of our business.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator in particular for coverage of 87th pars. Here are articles of interest in the context of this article. On the other hand, there is information on telecommunication, data storage, and if the communications agency considers it necessary, a contract should be made between a network security unit and a communications company, which can include a network security team being able to install equipment into a telecommunications centre, simply to spy on the Internet and so forthwith and the personal protection will be introduced. Then you may be worried that if a suitable instrument for installing the Internet security intelligence system, the communicators would be equipped to use, the other one would be excluded. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These few articles, combined with them, are a source of great concern to me as to personal protection in terms of data security, as regards the overall security of telecommunications. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u100	You think that, Madam President, I'm going to answer that technical question. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]] No, but you're absolutely right. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has moved the discussion out of the range of knowledge here but again we come to this, that we need knowledge of these things, and that those who are making decisions or giving counsel to governments, especially in view of the fact that governments are gaining this tremendous amount of authority through a Regulation, need to be members who are entitled to advise on the basis of knowledge and skills. I have to say, I think it's quite said that the post and communications agency is entitled to be built up by the Agency on this matter, that there is no clearer way to put it. This is key. But I find this very interesting, like cot. A senator is hoping and showing that he does not need a system that can be used for espionage but literally has to carry it inside so that we can use intelligence.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u101	President. It's not for good reason that I'm concerned because it was just trying to get these changes into the first round of these gadol's communicators. But in that view, we can see that the European Regulation assumes the reporting process online security, i.e. The network security team is receiving announcements, but it's not inside all the communications companies trying to find out if they're doing Internet attacks or not, because they simply find everything else. That's dangerous. The Network Security Unit is responsible for keeping track of the progress, warnings coming from network security forces in other countries, and reporting to all of the communications companies here. It's received an announcement from one telecommunications company here, and it informs them of all others and also informs fellow workers. [[The president calls.]] It's the co-ordination role of a network security team, but it's not to be in the field of espionage.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u102	President. Yeah, this is very interesting. I think, so I'm coming from somewhere else, that we may have had this conversation two years ago, me and what. A senator, and I think that then I could possibly have access to it in another way. But in view of the times we are living now, one of Europe's wars, the Putin government's attack on Ukraine, and the rest of the debate on the impending Internet attacks and Internet security that give us more weight to the need to secure these things. The question is, Can we guarantee individual protection at the same time? I can see why. A senator shakes his head. I'm not entirely convinced that it's impossible, at least I'm not ready to give up on it because I think it's just a project we're facing and I have to work out. [[The president calls.]] This is what we live in right now, and this situation will just gain and grow, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u103	Madam President. I want to pray. paritaprevir Friðriksson Friduk's to sit with me only at the resource angle. According to my records, and the people here on the bill, I haven't really gotten into the stitches of all of that, it seems to me that the cost-exploited increase for the post and communications agency and the state fund is inexplicable. It is unfashionable under budget of 2022 place. It is spoken of as a clean budget of 165 million. It's said that the single distribution of frequency clearances can be 750 billion. K. worth it. It is opened at expeditation and renting the frequency warrants in this bill, I understand the case correctly, so that I can see no better than that a government fund pulls the small straw but the hope of profit is all in the hands of those given or paying for the frequencies that can then be handed and rented.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u104	Madam President. Yeah, I'm the same target burnt, I haven't sunk into the bill in detail, but these were things I cut by. It is true that the reassignment of terms is a special price, a new one, 756 million, and, as we know, the largest part is paid by these three enterprises. Logic support is also a factor. the reassigned rate will then be used for 5G services, and there will be increased potential for innovation and increased value in the industry, and this will be a single-change cost. That's right, and that's why I cut by the word. A senator in the previous speech, this may be another example of things we need to have when talking about our resource policy, how we are going to make the best use of the nation's resources, and so on in the sense of innovation. To make them useful to the nation, however, it is the reward for which we rightly receive it. [[The president calls.]] So this is another item that needs to be entered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u105	Madam President. You will see that the range of resource use and resource use in Iceland is still unsatisfactory. This is true in telecommunications, such as in fishing and other resource uses, when we are talking about limited resources. I think it would be just fine for a member of the Committee and probably all members of Congress to adopt a good report published in September 2000 from the Committee of Resources, which worked under the direction of Jóhannes Nordalur and conducted by many members, and read it again because it covers the basics why every nation has to be charged with paying so that the owner can have it. Rentan runs to the public, and the government will take care of the transfers it makes, whether it could go, as in this case, for communication or for the development of communications across the country or elsewhere. This is a fundamental factor, and it is always being preconceived.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u106	Madam President. I'm just gonna face this challenge. A senator and get into this. I remember the report back then and read it. But you're right. There's every reason to go over her better and better. We're done with our time, and I don't have a chance to ask you a different question. A senator, but there are natural things to be updated because I think it's clear that something has happened in 20 years that men didn't see. This may be one of the most important projects the council can take and possibly join together. There would be little else that we would do that would be of greater benefit. Let's get the ball.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u107	Madam President. I think it is inevitable to discuss just the publication of this book, which is now published for the third time, the bill for communication now by a new publisher, the highest. Secretary of the university, industrial and innovation. The career of this matter, which has long been urgent here at the Council, has been of particular concern and care that it appears to be a conflict within the government on the importance of completing this matter and possibly in what way it should be completed. How strange it is to hear the highest voice! The minister of the wood, who had previously spoken this case, blames the government's opposition for how late it was. If so, recall that there was an enormous amount of work to be done on a dog. The Environment and Transport Committee during the last term of the implementation of this case produced considerable results. In fact, it went so far that a special subcommittee was appointed to consider the specific features of this case, and it came to a conclusion and everything seemed to be at hand. But then the government itself decided to wait on it, apparently because the left movement linked this with a case in a highland park and thought it appropriate to put an effort to prevent energy efforts from developing this issue, this urgent matter that had waited and been given a lot of work, to complete. But here it is again and for the third time and for reasons to discuss some of its basic features in a greater sense. I hope to the highest. A president makes it clear that I don't have enough time and technical knowledge to go deep in some articles. But this is a matter of the most important and fundamental interest in society, and I'm going to discuss it that way. First, I would like to agree with the current financial agenda that was introduced earlier today. This case isn't financed. This is not fully financed, despite the amount of work that has gone into its preparation and that, at the same time as recommended here at the council, it should be presented with a financial program that does not seem to be, at least not fully expected, the impact of the bill. True, some 500 million are expected. K. the income of the reassignment of the frequent, monopolizement, but we expect them to earn the state or the cost of financing by the partners eventually land on consumers. Thus, this is a matter of great discussions and preparation, but it is in a way incomplete on the part of the government. Perhaps the very nature of this case is that it is being followed rather than that of leading evolution. In other words, events of the last disturbance have changed the basis for this case, but in most cases they would have been available or at least assuming that things may change rapidly in order to form a network security problem. In that area, the Icelanders are too far behind and trying to pursue them, if the government has set off as an attempt to do so. But that is not well expected to react to her on this bill. This indicates that society's infrastructure is inexplicable, and therefore it is extremely strange that the case is taken from the highest level. A university, industrial, and innovation minister, without me putting anything into place how that appointed minister has handled the case. However, the fact that this government in its peculiar redesignment of the Council and a new body of workers has established a special infrastructure and did not assume that telecommunications were part of the infrastructure may reveal that this case does not have sufficient priorities or that it does not have a place in the government. Why are we on the inside if we don't communicate? Yes, of course, roads and bridges, but afterward we must mention communication that is beyond our reach. In other words, it has been a bit later in this government for various reasons, some of which are known and others. Above all, this is a future issue that goes on to follow a trend that is already beyond this bill. But because these are basic infrastructures, there are inevitable major political questions, and this is not the first time that communications talk raises major political questions in Icelandic politics. You can, for example. reviews, because it sets this in a specific context, the prayer meeting called in 1905, more than a century ago, a meeting where farmers and others could protest the bill of communication. In fact, farmers have been wronged for over 100 years because of this meeting, and today they still insist that farmers objected to their phone, and there is evidence of their retreat. In fact, it was the opposite. The farmers were protesting the agreement and technology that were being introduced because they had studied the matter well that they wanted to use new and better technology and make more favorable agreements that would be on grounds and under total government authority. That's exactly what this is all about, i.e. how much power the Icelandic government or Iceland has as a state of our own communications. At the time, the proposals were adopted for sea cables and then air cables, where a government led by Hafstein Hömstein wanted to attack the sea cables, while farmers along with the Einar Benediktsson and others considered a new missile technology to be better, as well as the agreement with the large Norwegian phone society an adverse one, especially because the Icelanders would be too dependent on the Danas, which would lend on the implementation of a particular control over the efficiency of the string. I heard the highest. Ministers here mention that it doesn't matter everything about any of the local companies that belonged to the infrastructure, but is it certainly so? Is it the opinion of the government in other European countries that it doesn't matter who owns the system? The key is the act of order? Or it may be that with foreign property, in some respects our ability to control these important infrastructures, which, in addition, clearly involve the safety of our country. Then I'll get to the Internet security. As many senators have mentioned, we are in the opposite direction, and there is concern. Of course, it would have been desirable for the government to have used the opportunity, in view of the time that has taken up this matter and the underlying work, to review the Internet security issues and to provide resources that could have some effect. Of course I realize it's hard to keep. It may be impossible to prevent international intelligence services from being able to improve in communication systems relating to access to information. But the system needs at least being equipped to continue in the ministry despite possible attacks to the extent possible. Now, for instance, it would be nice to hear someone's assessment of the potential for protecting a system from simply breaking. But at least We need to try, as if to make a film of Eistar, and I heard the above words in a talk earlier today. How interesting it was to arrive in Estonia some years ago and learn what the small nation has done in this series of languages that they have taken for granted and considered important! It's a question of whether I can review a number of these specific points in these articles that I would like to mention specifically but perhaps leave. Enough, for the time is running out, to mention the frequency rights. Clearly, the high - rate rights are limited, and their distribution has become major in many lands. I remember to form when the 3G technology was introduced that the government in many European countries offered it and those who offered it to the highest level but had to offer enormous sums of money. But we provide limited quality like these, especially in this small country, to consider more than just what comes directly into the box for sale of frequency rights. The rights must also be given to those who have these rights, since they play an important role in society. This reminds us of a discussion we had here a few years ago through fiber optics, the government's plans for fiber - opticization of the whole country, where different companies were about to put fiber - optics side by side in the same ditches, even digging them back up to lay the guide beside the others, but mostly in areas where the cost was most practical, i.e. to bring down the cream. However, it was possible to coordinate, which in such shallow woods the role of governments is inevitable, to bring together a fiber - optic fiber, thus linking the country all in a faster way. We need communication to bear in mind the importance of cohesion and the equality of the people throughout the country. Few things are so important in maintaining and strengthening national and telecommunications. Roads, telecommunications, and, of course, basic health services and education and so many other things, basically most of the other things today, employment and such things are based on communication. Therefore, governments must not create an system that enables companies to skim off the market by serving only the most densely and thereby the most valuable regions of the company's opinion. I see I don't have time to mention any more of the factors in particular, but I may be allowed to come back here in a speech to do it later, but I'm glad that this case is finally there for payment and never to know unless it's done. It is important, however, that the discussion be given and far - reaching, since this is a big, broad and important matter and the attendance of the council, as we have seen, given the way the government has maintained it so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u108	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting speech. One of the things I took note of was a senator's debate over how the matter was taken out last year in some negotiations within the government. Similarly, earlier today, an hour ago, I thought, "What's up?" paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, when the Northern Council was discussing Internet security in 2018 and how the left classes, including the left greens, agreed not to have increased cooperation in that area. Then it may be the understanding of what Internet security is and what the threat is and what we need to do to secure Internet security. My question to why. The senator is whether he believes that one of the three possibilities might be that the matter is simply taken out because that's how we do it in the politics. If you don't get something, the other person won't get something, even within the board. Or was it because they were deeply concerned about communication in the highlands? I don't think that was the point. Or was it perhaps the third, that left greens are still missing what Internet security is, believing that there is some kind of gun peace that they find hard to accept and deal with in their conversations? I'd love to hear some thoughts. A senator's experience and knowledge of this world are his.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u109	Madam President. That's exactly what I did by what I did. paritaprevir Katrín Frirduk's Friðriksson, who named this meeting and cooperation in the northern countries and how the left green groups distinguished themselves there. I had planned to mention it in my speech, I didn't do it, I just forgot. But there's bound to be something other than putting it in context of this case at the General Assembly, considering that the left have at least a green cell. Be willing to use this case in horse purchases, but don't know if it was simply for privatized reasons, so to speak, because they were willing to use everything for their highland park or if they thought it would be a good thing if this case were not possible for their possible doubt of Internet security. Safety, like cot. A senator mentioned well, perhaps in the mind of the left - green senator, he was inevitably linked with a weapon. That may be so. I began to wonder about this when I heard the description here, but I haven't answered that. What we do know, however, is that the left greens were willing to use this case in horse purchases, whatever the reason, whether they just wanted to go away or simply wanted to take advantage of it. It is not yet possible to walk now many years after talking about the importance of bringing in new communication laws and even attempts to complete this. Admittedly, this would help us to understand the political background of this matter and to support it in the event of a crisis. Councilmen left green, even if only one, take part in this discussion and describe their attitude toward it. I'm just gonna take this opportunity and advertise it. I think that would be useful for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u110	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. There was something else that I cut off in speech. A senator, and that was the coverage of communication systems as infrastructure. I know why. A senator was a special amateur of another type of wood, our electrical system, our energy system, right here during the last term, but this is a little different from what we have here, our communication system. In fact, much of it was sold at the time when the telephone was sold. We do not have shallow wood in the state market, therefore, competitive issues often govern, rather than social reasons for depositing these structures. I want to know what's wrong. A senator sees a comparison between energy and communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u111	Madam President. Absolutely, I can see that. Just as roads and airports have to be owned by the government, and if not owned by the official at least It belongs to someone who has to follow the rules that fit society so that these structures will be used in its behalf. I've certainly had a change of attitude, including for existing administration categories, to base and to display them, including in the energy issues where men have left their original concept with land activation, which was about the society's combined efforts to enable them to use their energy for their community. It was converted to an official society, which has now been formally seen as the sole goal of profit. Yet, she is still in possession of some men. The members of the Independence Party may wish to change that. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I'm going to have to ask you to complete this counterweight next time. I lost my sense of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u112	A respectable president. Yes, people lose their sense of time and are back to 1905, aren't they, at the farmer's meeting? I want to thank you. A senator for picking up the fine 200 farmers who rode to Reykjavík for the discount to fight the sea phone. They may not have been fighting to get 5G instead, but they wanted a missile, okay? But what I might have wanted was a little bit. The senator will leave, and hopefully he will also finish his previous answer at the same time, is how he likes the bill we're discussing here today, in principle. Is that a serious problem? See what? A senator saw the need to make significant changes in a committee on this bill? Or is it all this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u113	Madam President. First, to complete a previous answer on communication, I feel that the technological changes that took place late in the last century, fundamental changes in communication, meant that it was not practical for the State to have the whole communication system. In other words, technological changes called for the idea of allowing the competition to develop. Yet, it should have been better to keep to the ground a firm foundation for the formation that was not done. A senator mentioned. As a result, we need to approach this now by putting into practice those enterprises that have access to this system a specific obligation to society. As for the bill as a whole, I have to admit, as well as others. Senators have made it impossible for me to read the entire book, but I've studied all of the key chapters and have actually referred to the discussion at earlier levels and only observed the work of an environmental and transport committee at the time. Many of this bill is improving and the work of the environment and transport committee during the last term was greatly designed to improve this situation. What I might prefer to put out about the matter is, as I entered into my speech, that there's something after the time. We're still chasing the trend, not at least. An attempt to provide for or prepare for what is to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u114	A respectable president. I want to thank you for that answer. The Government Treaty describes the process of developing online and communications security as well as the possibility and funding for continuing building high - speed networks where markets do not carry out that service or security policy. Government aims are then being made that communications are accessible, readily available, safe, efficient, efficient, and environmentally friendly. In the same way, governments have set objectives for efficiency and use of the Internet security technology and for the safe environment. This may be the principal issue of communication and communications security in the government covenant. I may get to point it out to you. A member of the council whether he considers this bill to be the objective of this contract or the need to make major adjustments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u115	Madam President. It is difficult to say that this case does not fulfill these aspects of the government covenant simply because the points were open to it. It was simply a word of better and more stable communications, etc., and environmental communication, it has been added there. Communication is, in general, I think environmentally friendly and one of the things that enable us to draw, e.g. Greenhouse gas emissions are a better means of communication and a better source of communication. But because of the general nature of this statement, the government can claim that it is fulfilling this general expression. Would it have been better? No doubt, but mostly by responding better to the trend of the last year and year, especially on the Internet safety issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u116	A respectable president. The Internet security here is an interesting subject because it is often treated as if everything was more successful with the police and everything was more successful. But just as the law enforcement work is complex and the services that the police provide for many, more to help than punishment, and so on, the Internet is also the case. We've had a little experience in the previous part of this bill that the post and communications agency wanted to make the Internet security team as beautiful a name as it is, that some sort of spy group instead of a Internet security band. In the regular work that other Internet security teams in the countries around us work, they are a communication provider, a central contact provider who responds to indications of potential neglect and ensures that everyone is receiving that message immediately, all partners in all countries, which can then be distributed to their partners and communications companies. What has been suggested here, however, is that the Internet security team puts equipment in all communications companies and somehow assumes responsibility to watch if something is bad to happen instead of being experts in their systems because they are better able to adjust them according to the dangers they face if they are quickly exposed to information. The last comments were that if the intelligence team did take care of this surveillance, there would be a natural telecommunications company saying, "I don't have to watch anyone, the Internet security team, or the intelligence team, they're doing that. " The Internet security issues on this issue are a little more complicated than just: More Internet security, everything will work out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u117	Madam President. Those were interesting points. Of course, it is known in many areas that what is called a security check is sometimes abused by governments. A spy on the civilians, and that's one of the things I didn't get into my first speech here, a protection case related to this bill. And then there's something else. A senator mentioned the subject of the change in work that I found so interesting, but he has to admit that I lack knowledge in this regard so that I can add something to it. A senator mentioned. I may allow myself to ask the question that may not be appropriate here. A senator who's asking, I know he's taking it well, ends up being very informed about these matters, how he's supposed to be. A senator's security surveillance would be best done. Where does it stay, and what would be the best way to work? And then if there is time, I am still wondering the question: What can be done to cope with threats on the Internet or other electronic threats?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u118	President. There's a slight conflict between the fear of both communications companies and the various employment companies of reporting online attacks. This is in part what the Internet security squad or the post-adversor communications agency now, feared, feared that a telecommunications company would not report after they had been attacked online because it might have a negative impact on the reputation of the companies. That's why they just want to be inside their communicators, so they can keep track of whether they really are under attack or not. It will relieve the communications companies of all responsibility to check that there are any online attacks, the Internet security team is tracking them anyway. But it also makes insecurity because it adds the equipment that can be used to attack, i.e. The intelligence equipment used by the spies reduces Internet security after all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It has a cross-reacting effect on the equipment being used and espionage, which are even creating more attack points. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u119	Madam President. It was as interesting as the previous answer. A senator yet raises even more questions, and again I lack technical knowledge to get into it, as interesting as it would be to be able to ask on the technical side of this case. But I remember reading a book about spys during the 20th century, since the interwaring years and beyond the war, and it is amazing what humans could do with the technology that existed then, phone technology, and other communication devices. You wonder, then, as technology has become today: Is there anything you can do to prevent people with knowledge from forming larger intelligence services, from getting all the information they want, or at least from getting the information they want? Can external members be prevented from destroying systems so that they are no longer functional?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u120	A respectable president. We'll discuss communication here, and I think that's what we're gonna do. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, was so impressed with the discussion earlier. If you were confused about communications and security, you're completely out of your mind today. The more security, the less security, if I understand correctly. I am of the generation that the first communications I made were in rural areas, three lengths, and one short. Then a man was talking in there. Today it would be called Facebook or a facebook, but you were there in a book of hearing and speech, a country's entertainment program, or those connected to the relevant line. You were directed to be careful to speak carefully because everything was heard. A man was quick to discover that there were certain people who were always ready to listen, Gunna to the next town, and then you always did in saying, "Yes, she Gunna at the next town said that. And it was heard, No, I never said it! Then, of course, the entire line exploded. It always worked. I think this is gonna tell us we're in the same place today, we're not gonna stop those who want to come on the lines and listen and find out the information. I think that's where we're probably always chasing our tails and staying. But if we get to this bill here, there are new overall communications laws, or the code, as the bill has been called. This bill may have a number of factors to consider, but in many ways it is a wonderful bill. But we need to realize that we have a whole book, 130 pp. and what, 100 articles, or more? It's incredibly complicated. You don't have to be surprised that there's a lot of discussion about this because even if we were to talk here well until Easter and before Easter, I don't think we'd get close to knowing exactly what's going on. As mentioned earlier, a telecommunication clinic believes that there is a need to develop a special knowledge of this matter. I just have to say, I'm not surprised because when I started trying to get through this and came to 5th. ............................................... Of course, there was much more than enough to think about, but then I looked through it even better and found that these are 100 articles. Then when you started reading the report - if you had really thought you could now find out how it was built up from the beginning, you've entered the EECC and EU directives and these are endless numbers. If we want to get things done really well, and so be it's a perfectly perfect publication for that, at least. I've been completely entangled. I thought I might be able to go through some of this, but I obviously need more time. Now is the time to give the remotest agency permission to set the frequency criteria for the obligation to provide a public service. Also, a remote network agency will be able to put in charge of a communication agency to offer regional bifocal services if it is necessary to ensure regional access to wireless services and that there is no other similar and practical way to provide access to end users. It's very simple, but it's not. The hopes of many today are that by such service there will be a better way to ensure communication, especially in a country that is, of course, a real need. In many places, only one telecommunications company is sent to a large area. In such a situation, it is vital that everyone be able to connect with them, even if people do business with other communications companies. A remote exchange agency also intends to require that the prevalence of productive high - speed networks, transport services 5G, extend to 99.5% of legal homes and workplaces with full - time work periods. In this regard, it may be thought that the structure requirement will be a milestone, e.g. over two-to-six-year period, out of the headings. It is positive that governments will contribute to a secure high - speed network, stent service at legal homes, and full - wound facilities, which remain the road system. Communication is very important to ensure national security. So I hope that the government will share with the above plans to further the national communications services. This applies not only to our country's roads but also to its wilderness. Although we also know of many parts of the country that do not communicate, it can be even more painful when people live in the wilderness, even in peril, and unable to communicate. Sadly, as we have often figured out, foreign people are often in trouble because they do not realize what the situation is in this country because they may come directly from a large city where they have been able to communicate wherever they are. However, the extent to which communication is not working is unattainable. Hence, it is positive that the bill contributes to a positive change. Nevertheless, the problem remains that in many places better communications need to be developed, added senders, renewables, etc. At that time, rural areas in the country have repeatedly pointed out that telecommunication agencies do not provide the correct view of communication. In many areas there are gaps needed to map, and there is little need for communication to grow. It's a good thing to say that instead of assigning a party, you're about to open a frequency warrant. This will help ensure that there is an equality between parties on the market. However, it should be noted that those in a market position can ensure an even greater advantage through such an invitation. It is essential to ensure that the distribution is distributed between parties in the frequency range, so that, for example, there is no conflict in the degree of variation. one person handles a large item frequency at another end of the available frequency. I'm surprised that the government's greater part issued a well-seated pact in the Migraine case, but a short time later put out a bill that contained a very similar punitive punitive pact. Why is this roundabout on the board of national administrations? They have been changed only to restore an original bill or to return it without an explanation. You see, this is exactly what's been a feature of this government, if you don't understand the communication laws, how on earth are you to understand the government? It could be more complex in many ways, but somehow we have to provide security, online security, everywhere. We know that there are under it, for example. Rescue units. But it also frightens you when you hear that it's kind of hopeless to make sure that these systems can be prevented, that it really is, no matter what it is done, it will always be so complicated to work against it. Then, of course, it goes on to say that it also matters how systems are being used and where they come from, I think that can be a challenge. Of course, the question is, How good are the systems that will be installed, whether they are guaranteed to work well enough. As mentioned earlier, there have been reports of installing a system, a surveillance system to watch whether or not the system is breaking in. I say for my part that I'm sure it will be a huge headache for those who are going to work by these laws to try to make sure that these 130 pages. in 110 articles - that it will be possible to ensure that someone can safely understand that some of these laws are being violated, and as I said them first after he has learned 62 words with a good explanation of every word. It's kind of, I think, hopeless. I say for my part that I'd admire the person who could go through this. If this reminds me of anything, it reminds me of the non-employed social security system that no one can figure out anything but one computer that's been programmed, just saying yes or no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u121	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here spoke of the greater security of my population. I thought that was a bit of an interesting point because it's in some respects understandable because it's trying to make more security; it's the appearance of security, but it's actually a fake security. There is nothing unusual in such communities that wants to create the spirit that it is safe, and it is often done with all kinds of virtual techniques that, in the end, have nothing to do with it. I think we have to watch out for a little bit of that. I understand exactly what you want, e.g. The telecommunications Agency or the Internet security force to want to do things well, to distrust some extent those who have been in the past may not have been sufficiently busy in reporting online attacks. But this is the confidence that needs to be added to both sides. Instead of taking some form of override on a system that works well in the presence of trust, it is much more efficient in this system I described, that the network security team is a co-ordinater. We have emergency coordination centre, disaster, etc. It only works in the same way as it does, but it's not the person doing law enforcement or surveillance or trying to take care of all these roles. I think we need to learn a little bit about it here. By the way, I'm gonna come in again in an opposite direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I know he wasn't trying to confuse me, but he did it anyway. The simpler it is, the better. If that's the case, I think he's saying about online attacks and online security that we're always following our tails. I think the answer lies in the fact that we can forget this because technology throws forward like this, that knowledge goes so far that those in this security business are always one, two, three steps behind, I have a feeling. Hv. A senator may inform me about it, but I still look at the Internet as if it's best to have nothing online except what I want someone to know about me, most of the time, because I don't realize if anyone is hacking me or not. I don't have that knowledge. As a result, it is safer, I think - of course, it is not possible for public institutions to think that way. They must take care of the data and other items. We hear about all these encryptions. But there seems to be no matter how many and complicated the encryptions are going to be, there always seems to be someone who finds a way around it. If this is not understood correctly, let us know why. I hope that's what a senator to me, and he will still make me happier with that answer than I already am.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u123	President. This is made quite clear in the latter part of what I was going to discuss here, which is the expertise of the senators. Senators can't possibly be experts in everything. No way. All 63 senators here can't be experts in all matters. Hence, the government works in a way that we trust in the reviews of experts. And we, according to a constitution, put our convictions and consciences in evaluating them from time to time, what we mean, and what values we're going to put behind them without being experts. But we try to evaluate information from experts without being experts ourselves. We will seek out other experts who may be able to explain this to me as if I were five years old: Could you help me with this? But we often don't have time for that in the council and much less about such matters as this, because we're also just 63, and we're also just little Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I totally agree. That's why I'm also very happy when it suddenly hits my computer: Now you have to change your password. Because if it wasn't to appear on my screen, I would never change my password, I wouldn't even think of it. So I'll be really happy. So I think, Ah, is that it? Now I need to find something new. And then I get into the problem that I'm trying not to write down my password, but to try to remember it, so it's gonna be more complicated and more complicated. But maybe it's what I'm afraid of the most that one of these days comes to me that I don't remember the password to my computer. And then what? Do I need some expert to break into the computer?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u125	Then you're fucked.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u126	Then I'm fucked.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u127	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and really being honest, because, of course, this is a very complex thing technically and just not easy to understand, unless you are comfortable with this long time. Like what? A senator reviewed them as a sign of the complexity and technical complexity of the application of 62 words on the subject, an explanation in the law of what is a wireless network and a regional number and the like. But that's not what I was going to say. That's what I was going to say. A senator agrees with me on how important it is for us to be part of a greater rule of activity when it comes to consumer security and consumer security and security for all the public in big business and important matters such as communication -- here is actually being used as a joint European rule on minimum services, on the minimum public insurance for having access to Internet services, communications services, and on this system of security - whether or not. A senator may agree that it is important that we be in some sort of unity with other nations in this form of service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u128	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for the answer. Yes, of course we have to join, but what I'm afraid is how big this booth will be. Who can understand it? Is it false security? How should we know? We've created some giant, kind of security inside security, and nobody understands it but some complete experts. Then I fear that we people who have enough trouble messing with our TV will go from channel to channel and find the right channels or steps on the phone, land on a wall, and don't realize it. As I pointed out, this book is incredibly complex and complicated. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson pointed out that a telecommunication agency feels that a certain person just needs to teach them, they just need to learn. It's become so complicated, it's become so much a rule that I don't see how and when we can get it activated so it works out the way it's supposed to. Once we've reached that place, this blessed system, which we've suddenly become out of date because it has brought us something new. I fear that we will always be one step behind in security because our systems have become so complex. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u129	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, or an answer to an answer, let's say. There's one thing I'm sticking around in this. It's this law, the legal obligation now being placed on the telecommunications companies, to make sure that a phone call won't wear off when you lose contact with the transmitter. It's new. You're actually supposed to be able to switch to the best possible relationship anywhere, but not so that the phone company can hang on your line. Of course, we see comparable regulations, such as. in the health care laws that say everyone should get the best health care care. Counts 'em out. A senator's idea that such laws can be put into practice when governments fail to maintain that status? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I completely agree with her. We know this firsthand. Not too long ago, the first thing we were advised when we went abroad was to turn off our cell phone: Be careful not to get calls because it's too expensive. Happily, this was different. Today, even if he has his cell phone on in a foreign land, he is not worried. At any rate, this shows that we were on the right track there. I believe that the simpler it is - but, as I say, I would have been very happy if this 130 - page book had been one A4 magazine. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I wouldn't have been so worried about this. But since it's not, I'm a little worried. I would have liked and, in effect, insisted that this be perhaps 10% of those 130 pages. [[The president calls.]] I think that's how it could have been done, and then it would have been more understandable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u131	Madam President. I found it interesting to listen to the senator's speech here and to associate with many of the points presented in his language. On the other hand, I feel that the evolution that you have seen in recent years, all of which go on simplifying things, statues, websites, and other things, often go a long way, often going so far as to find the missing information. I get a lot of this when I'm looking at websites. I'm actually a very informed person. I'm very interested in knowing everything. The Senator speaks of it as difficult to understand everything that is being presented in a technical bill as this, and it may be far and much, but I wonder: When it is as important as communication, which is becoming more complex and perhaps more species to exist and other things that we have missed, we find no more security in the fact that there are detailed rules, detailed information on how things are supposed to be normal so that those who have the knowledge can't take advantage of them will get to break our rights, as well as in breaking in other systems and other things? This is the first question for the senator. And I'd also like to mention that it's certainly not that we can guarantee it by technical means that we will never be broken anywhere and that we have more than just technology. But it is of such importance that there are guidelines that can be referred to and applied to keep our rights in place at a time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u132	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I must say that in many ways I agree but also disagree. I like things simple. I have this feeling when things are so complex that there are always fewer and fewer people who understand them, and there are, of course, fewer and fewer people who can defend themselves. Technology drives fast forward to the fact that an ordinary person only uses less than 10% of what his phone really can do. We have computers, and we usually just use the simplest things in it. I don't know how many percent of the computer's capacity we use in everyday life, and I don't understand the 90% that we could use because we don't have the knowledge to do that. That's why I say that having things so complicated makes normal people not realize whether they're breaking rules or laws in that context. They do not have the knowledge to enlighten themselves, and they probably do not know where to look to find out if it has been wronged. It tells us that once things are so complex that you have no chance of defending yourself against them, you have to rely on the system and rely on the system -- no, it's not very exciting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u133	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. As I mentioned before, I'm connected with a lot of things. There is a senator. It is a concern if we feel that we cannot trust the systems we create and should be able to rely on to protect our rights. So I agree that there is, of course, a fundamental premise that we can enjoy our rights, that we are aware of them, and when things are too complex, we don't know what our rights are. I cut it as a dog. A senator mentioned that we may be doing our daily work with computers and technology not using everything the computer can do, and we don't realize it, and then computers just get more complex, and we don't necessarily know what they are. All of a sudden, I have to buy 400,000 bucks. A computer to do the same thing as a 50,000K. A computer did two years ago. [[The president calls.]] But I would like to point to something else that is also interesting in this context, and that is, in fact, the same about the human brain. [[The president calls.]] We only use a fraction of what the brain can do. [[No.]] [[The president calls.]] - No, says Björn Leví.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u134	The president would like to remind you that the speech period in the second round is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u135	A respectable president. I have to admit, it's a complicated matter to deal with. But if I was to be completely honest, I'd say, "The simpler, the better." I somehow believe that if we can simplify things, we should. Sadly, though, our tendency is always to complicate things so that we have no chance of paying attention. Suppose there is something written on the Internet that you want to delete, but even if you have all the rights and do everything legally, you can't be in there and you should be able to take it out, you can't. [[The president calls.]] Does that not tell us how hopeless this fight is?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u136	President. The fact that we're just using 10% of our brains is extremely persistent. Of course, that is not the case. I just want to reiterate it, clearly and clearly. We are the offspring of a million years of evolution, and it would be useless to create a lot of giant brains that have such a species and that we only use 10% of them. There would be such destruction of stuff, and there would be nothing of great benefit. But this brain allows us to create books of complex regulations on some 130 pages and put them in the hands of 63 members of the body in order to weigh the benefits and wiseness of the international community. Although it's mostly for company and organisations, it's also a lot of consumer rights, and that's what I'm going to focus on in this speech. At first, I'm going to cover the services. Of course, public service is a relatively new phenomenon in Iceland, and it comes from a European rule, because we don't do this very much ourselves. We get the best ideas imported and often paint them in Icelandic colors, as we have the idea of it ourselves. But, no, really, there were others somewhere else who came up with the idea and we put it in our own way, and nothing necessarily in a good way, as if I only come to some other point later. But it works in a way that if there are any areas in Iceland that no service person is willing to accept, because for market reasons, it doesn't pay, etc., then the State can actually offer out or say to a particular servant just: You better do this service there. We've figured the cost of this is right here, so it's gonna cost you. And without any trouble. Also, it is always possible to argue whether it is the correct price for the obligation to perform that service, which is another matter. In any case, it is a practical methodology for implementing services in more scattered areas where it is not market-presidents for competition and so on. That's what we did, for example. in the mail service and this is in the third energy package, exactly the same arrangement. There's nothing abnormal going on here. But then there's chapter 11 here or IX. The chapter, we still use Roman numerals in this, quite remarkable anything, we are so developed - and it discusses consumer protection. There I would like to start by discussing the lack of network at 71. g. In the first century C.E., God's Word, the Bible, says: "The whole world is lying in the power of the wicked one. " mg., or To handle all communications procedures without discrimination, limitations, or interference, and regardless of the sender or recipient, the materials received or shared, the services used, or the services provided, and the equipment used, should be handled by an Internet exchange agency. This is an extremely important matter. A few years ago, especially in the United States, the lawgiver wanted to influence a number of major companies, to limit Internet traffic from everyone but the better paid sources, say, e.g. Although Netflix has not been available at the time, amazon or Netflix. In addition, major services companies, YouTube, e.g., were charged with providing so much material, which allowed consumers to access it in a much easier way than if they went to Metatabe or something like it. Then the network was much smaller, perhaps ten times smaller. This creates an extremely confusing competitive situation. But in the United States, there is a measure of confidence in the fact that some people pay members through all kinds of companies, etc. To support them in their contributions, there was nothing extremely positive democratically saw how it all turned out. Fortunately, it was only now solved -- I still think there's some sort of trouble in the United States - and we're getting this online component, e.g. Through Europe. Piratars fought for noncommunication at the European Parliament, and we were blessed with this. But there are limitations. The secretary can set up a regulation on the implementation of a network share-in, including for the purpose of traffic control, specific conditions for driving, etc. This is a factor that must always be monitored on understandable and objective grounds. I'm not going to go anywhere in any further. This is a point I expect to be made on the committee's coverage. To be honest, I don't understand how the committee's going to review this at the time that remains because there's a lot to consider. Then, in brief, the release of terms and registrations. This is not exactly related, but it sheds a little light on a problem we have in another field in Iceland. This is a requirement for the publication of government contracts and registrations. I want to take the insurance business in Iceland out of parentheses. Anyone who can visit the websites of insurance companies and find terms or registrations of the services they operate on will do so. I think we need to transfer this rule only to that area, too, so that all of it will be more understandable. Better said, e.g. The F.I.A. to have a specific check on insurance insurance records and likes but just don't, and maybe because the law's just not clear enough about it. Then I'm going to deal with the Internet security team, as has been done in some answers: the safety of information, telecommunications and communications services. Network Security Unit. This is XII. Chapter 78 par. There's a lot of familiar stuff in there. I was on an environment and transport committee during the last term, and then we got our hands on this. We received a file or transfer which the Post and Communication Department wanted in these legislations that they or their network security team were allowed to set simple - or no simple but sophisticated monitoring equipment for communications equipment, on their computers, in effect, for the purpose of communications services. This simply goes against the regulations on which these laws should be based. There is nothing more complex than that in my opinion, because the network security programme as it is drawn up in the European Regulation is to be a cohesive, i.e. to take in information about the Internet safety problems and to get them to everyone they are dealing with. Then there is communication with both other online security teams, i.e. A flow between countries, and in every country to all services. This particular information network is to provide information on a network attack from somewhere in the current service network, where this security area is running, to all others as short as possible. The last thing that was pointed out here when this was being done is that if the Internet security team has surveillance equipment from the telecommunications companies, they'll see no purpose in tracking if there's any online attack. They can take responsibility for everything. Why should they want to take the risk of not seeing signs of an online attack when it is a special network security team? It is simply a risk they do not want to take, claiming to be observing, but then they do not get ahead of the Internet security team, which they should still be able to do if they had the right motive for their ministry. So instead of trying to get off responsibility, it's a lot easier: We got access to it, you can watch it as you want, and we just drill through your nose. The problem is, at that point, the Internet security team has just been brought up with all its security checks, which will then be in a certain monitoring of itself because it is to monitor that the companies are doing their own business and have feedback plans, etc. and their response plans are just: The Internet security is on top of this. We don't have to do anything. Also, when we add up the knowledge or responsibility to one place, we reduce the likelihood that there will be someone who will be warned of the Internet attack. When in many places, Internet surveillance is being done in many places in many kinds of systems, and it is more likely that someone would be affected by something unusual. Because Internet attacks usually try to influence e.g. a device that will not work on any other equipment or is simply a human attack, such as a hunting attack that says: You were inherited from a Nigerian king or a prince or something like that. - Time is running too fast. - There are attacks that no network security team can observe. It can't really be held in accordance with the terms of how telecommunications are stored. I might get it later, let's see. This is also very important because the equipment placed on the telecommunications system can cause insecurity. The communication device is designed to function in a certain way, it is just a program and a technical device that does its work and if one of the systems or technology is added onto it, which is not necessarily designed to cooperate with it, it can cause interference. It may delay while reading the information, which may lead to unexpected and unexpected consequences. It also adds, because it is now a spy device, another place to attack the Internet, just through the spy equipment. That's very dangerous. What has been achieved in many areas where Internet security forces are being carried out is this information sharing system so that local problems can be dealt with instead of trying to collect expertise in one place that may be dealing with different technologies in the services industry. It's just too heavy. Maybe that's why they want to limit the equipment they can use. All of them have the same equipment, which means that if there's an Internet attack that works on such equipment, it's all done, not just with people who have the equipment but then it's okay with the others because they have different equipment. It is also safe to distribute the technologies, the export of those who would become more severe, the surveillance, because the Internet security team needs special knowledge of each and every tool for itself and the damages, the safety suits of that equipment. It needs to be monitored in much more locations where information needs to be monitored. A service associate who only has his Cisco equipment or something like that is just tracking security updates on that device. He also does not need to be watching Huawei or Nokia or a lot of other species. He is only observing everything that concerns his own special equipment, expertise in this. We're running out of time, and I'm not done with the data cache. I'll save them the data tanks until the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u137	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir To him, the request of Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was a talk on the Internet security, my Jesus. When I listened to you, I thought, "Yes, it's a good idea, yes, it could work this way. But then I found out at the end that it's just hopeless, isn't it? You can't let this work. We can't make this safe. I don't see how it's because if we have multiple systems and this system goes down on the other system, it can cause damage to that system, and if we only have one system that collapses, the whole thing will collapse. I just can't figure out how to get this on. Another thing I did was when you talked about fixed prices, pointed out in the mail, that it could be such a disaster as it did with the mail, that you're putting on a fixed price that may be fixed for years, or it won't be the right price. I want an explanation as to whether you're talking about finding the right price or finding out what the service costs, and therefore this system could suffer a similar disaster as the mail. If so, what can we do to prevent it? I'm wondering if there's a simple solution. Besides, I agree deeply with insurance companies and their demonstrations. I would not have been surprised if we had received one such book just about it with much more chapters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u138	President. I'm less worried about the services on this job than at the postman's. The mail is changing so much, it's a different system. But there may be a need for services in some areas in Iceland, and it is a remote agency that is to account for the cost of maintaining the ministry each year. Well, it's usually the highest cost of coming up with a transmitter, so I'm less worried about it. It's not the same cost as this extra delivery charge for foreign mails from abroad, the kind of thing that we're going to have, or who knows what they think, so, yes, we can end up there. For Internet security and the lack of security, there is no net security, but we just have to get it out of the view that the security is never complete, just as we're never sure that someone will break into our home or steal our car or something like that. It's exactly the same. We need not fear it in any other way. This is just another area where we need to learn the rules of conduct, e.g. Like a snooze. A senator spoke earlier about passwords, why regularly update passwords, and try to remember them, etc. The thumb rule there is just to keep the password long, and when you have a long password, it's often hard to remember. But it is also possible to create a long password that is easy to remember, such as. Just like a bill to legalize communication from university, industrial and innovation ministers. I can totally remember that password. It's a long time, and it's boring to write it, but it's the good password.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u139	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, a password. I know someone used the password as a password. I understand it's best with the password to have letters, numbers, letters, letters, letters, letters and every sort of bar, but I don't know if that's really important. No, it didn't matter. The senator just shakes his head. But I also noticed that in the discussion when you were talking about traffic control and the differences in services relating to lack of net space, lack of network and some traffic control. [[A shareless.]] I just have to say, I didn't quite get it so it'd be nice to get a little better explanation for what was going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u140	President. No, it's no final beta to have special letters and numbers and letters and funny symbols and stuff, but having the chance of it matters. The best password is just to add letters, keep it longer. There's much more to it than adding loud and lowercases here and there. It is all right to do the same, but there is really no need for your password to grow. Regarding the lack of access, it's about that if a user is going to attempt to approach some service from YouTube or from Metatube, he gets the same service from both sources, regardless of everything else. That the Internet company that's in between can't say, "You pay me more, that's why I'm going to get faster than there than that, or just turn it off and be grossly boring." This was linked to the attempt to control illegal downloads. [[The president calls.]] It was supposed to be some kind of way to rule out everything else online, but what had specifically been said was to be some kind of approved service provider. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u141	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for a meaningful, accurate, and often complex talk for players in this special field. But it's always good to hear a approach. A senator on complicated issues. I'd like to go back to the conversation we only had earlier today with this diversity of 87th par. and the security, this vast regulations. I'm somehow trying to link this thing together, i.e. this need and the importance of maintaining security in view of the growing likelihood that there will be an ever - increasing global network attack. In our lifetime, we are likely to face such an attack by a democracy nation and by a nation on an island in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean at least as weak as many other nations, let's say, to avoid getting deeper in the year. How, though, can we relate these warnings to the importance of respect for personal protection? Add to it the fact that most people are honest but are breaking down certain things in their lives that are not relevant to others unless they agree. Our whole life's on the Internet. All we do, say, think, say some, is in this communication system. How can we best, and is this bill so that we can be confident that these matters are being considered in the best light of circumstances? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u142	President. If we are going to be afraid of a massive Internet attack that will make it happen, we should not be making a deal with Microsoft that it will take care of all the government institutions because that makes it possible for one security defect in Microsoft to have access to all Icelandic institutions, a fun trace. The answer to the other question is no. There's a problem with this bill that's connected to the data storage system. According to 89 st. will be stored for the sake of criminality certain minimum registry data on the six month walk of the user's communications. As far as I know, this data saved by the European Union for personal protection reasons. Consider this: We are walking down East Street, and we are just talking. There is no record of our communications, that they have occurred on any other level, but for some reason, if we have them over the network in virtual space, they form a link; here we meet, here we communicated, each number, user name, all connections, dates, dates, to which number of data transfers are connected, etc. These are information that comes from just because it is possible in the world to store them but is clearly something the government would like to do with pedestrians on the street. There's nothing different about it. The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights has, in fact, confirmed or confirmed that it also applies in a digital world. [[The president calls.]] How important it is to realize that our chat on the Internet is no different than our conversation in the East. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u143	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It's clear that this has to be in the foreground of work. We need to know what we're doing, and more than that, the public, users of this technology, needs to know what we have to do and what we have to do. And again: last of all, I will minimize the importance of security and that we have all the protection and this fall under Iceland's security policy and that we can guarantee this, but it must not be at the expense of our basic rights, not when we're at the same time defending this fundamental rights. We need to follow the technology there, and we need to control it, not let it control us in these matters. It won't be easy, but I trust this fine committee. I'd like to ask you at the end of the question, because we've talked about reimbursement for the reassignment of the security warrants, and I'd be interested in seeing a point of view. It's for a senator. [[The president calls.]] These are limited quality. [[The president calls.]] We do not necessarily have a great story when it comes to the sale or distribution of such systems, so I just want to hear the thoughts of each other. A senator about the position there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u144	President. Since I'm not on the environment and transport committee this time, I decided to cover the issues that were most boring in the last place and that were about these devices and the spys, etc. so I haven't looked at the part for sharing the frequency heartburn. But I can easily understand the irony behind it, which is in relation to the saying of the saying system and such things. We're not very busy doing this right. I'd like to find it quite interesting, I guess I'd just look at the next talk how it's exactly what it is, and I'll ask myself a lot of questions about why the same system isn't used in spreading limited quality in other ways too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u145	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for an extremely technical speech, and again I come up here to express my admiration for Pirata's deep knowledge of computers and technical knowledge and actually intend to abuse my situation here. We're here to put - or possibly, here at least they're carrying a bill that may become a law to try somehow to secure our network security. Here's what we've got. A senator discussed putting up a box that somehow reduces this spontaneous responsibility and monitoring of communications companies in order to personally try to watch possible Internet attacks, and then comes the question: Is it possible for an Internet attack to take place inside the telecommunications company? Is that in any clouds? Is it in the technology system itself that a network attack can take place? And if you shrink this into just a home, a network attack takes place in people's programs, into individuals' equipment or into just a yes, the route? Where will an Internet attack take place?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u146	A respectable president. Thank you for the good question, and the answer is relatively simple: everywhere. Wherever there is an Internet connection, the refrigerator if it's smart, the light bulb even, there's these brilliant light bulbs. Once you have any connection with any processing capacity, you can attack and use it, for example. to attack, network attack, at any party, the so-called (real of ervice) or the denial of the service of a guest. When we buy e.g. a light bulb, a refrigerator or a plant, or anything that has a smart connection and we can connect to our phone - the equipment itself in the fridge, and this is never really updated after it's bought, no software updates made on the CPU and the body, programs that are there, so all security defects are always there. And if someone gets past the firewall and gets into this security defect, he's got it under control, and then, all of a sudden, he's got 10,000 refrigerators all over the world, which he's running and can use to reprogram and send requests for services from someone who can't take over 10,000 requests at once or a million waiting around the world from refrigerators all over the world and the service falls down. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm not even gonna pretend to be an expert on this, I'm just pretending to be a player in this. I see the basis for this and the situation. I may not be an amateur in this, but I'm not going to pretend to be an expert in this so that people may be able to take what I'm saying with me -- I'm trying to explain in a simple way that's hopefully available, so when I say that my case is technical, I'm sorry, I don't know how to make it simpler than this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u147	Madam President. Then we come to this: we are, for example. In judicial matters, and in penalties, it is stated what cannot be done, what is classified as an offense. Here we are creating some kind of rulework and informing what needs to be done to ensure Internet security, what defenses. Then perhaps I would like to ask again: Could it not be said that this is a manual or a guide on how telecommunications companies and governments should proceed in defense of Internet attacks? We know that Internet attacks are illegal, that's nothing--yes, there's probably something going on about them too in some of those hundred and some articles. But isn't this really a guidebook on how to defend yourself?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u148	President. Yes, this is so much the evidence that the government has to cope with Internet attacks and Internet security because we know that the government is perfectly qualified to be the exact person who engages in these attacks. We've been informed about this in a number of data albums, e.g. Snowden recently and stuff like that. Governments are not innocent victims, they are huge bacteria. Then we may come into our home where our defense work in NATO also applies to Internet attacks. If any country is attacked by a network, it can activate the articles that actually send everyone into a global attack war or worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u149	Madam President. We are here dealing with fundamental changes in Icelandic communications legislation, changes in the implementation of the European Parliament's Directive and its Council (EU) 2018/1972 of December 11, 2018, on the European rules of telecommunication, all referred to as the code. In the foundation, we're changing the legislation in line with this updated joint rule. Of course, it's a lot of dolls and many of the sides of this thing that have been accessed here tonight and now, at last, a bit of the wrong philosophical trails, I was heard. I think it's important that we keep in mind when we discuss this matter that this directive's regulations allow considerable scope for implementation and how it is done. It is all too common to be smuggled into such a billing rush, and the council somehow assumes that it needs to be there because of the European Court, but it turns out that it does not. So all we need to do is look at it with extreme criticism. I suggest that the Environment and Transport Committee also carefully review this bill in view of the high targets of communication and communication security of the state's budget. It is quite clever to think that despite all the high goals, transport and communications contributions that are being made together in one business area, in financial planning, are expected to only be secluded in the next few years. But all right, I'm not on a transport and environment committee so I'm just gonna let myself stay here and focus on a very specific aspect of this bill, which is 72. g. It is. Then maybe I'd like to start by pointing out that 2 mg. Thirty-seven. The current telecommunication is a minimum of six months in consumer contracts with telecommunications companies. It's a law that's been in the communication between 2007 and 2007. 72. g. the bill we are discussing today is based on the physical harmony of this law, except what, the maximum binding time is expected to double, being 12 months instead of six months. The purpose of the arrangement i.e. Of course, the old law, which is actually the basis for this new provision, is to ensure that communications companies' terms and practices in reporting agreements do not interfere with consumers transfers and do not block open competition. Active competition in telecommunications markets, that's what happens in many of these government policy groups, let's keep that in mind. Of course, these goals for active competition are only in harmony with the 105th requirement. The EC Directive (EU) 2018/1972 requiring that the duration of binding of consumers should be prohibited for longer than 24 months. On the other hand, it is permitted to recommend a shorter maximum limit period, as is done here, except by the change previously stated. How is this change supported in the bill's report? You would have thought it might have led to some analysis behind the change - I mean, it's a fundamental matter that involves the flexibility of consumers and, in fact, just the freedom of the agreement in some way. You would have thought that making such a change would at least be logical in a very convincing way. Let's take a look at the logic support of the bill's report, by permission of the President: However, in view of the changed competitive conditions, it is suggested that the maximum binding time be extended to 12 months. Increased scope for these products may benefit consumers in terms of products/services and prices. ◯ - That's it. This is now the full support for the change. When a similar bill was presented to the last council, the Neythal Society criticized that change very strongly. The report states: ▪ A binding delay is in accordance with the Community's evil purpose in increasing consumer protection and options and promoting active competition. Shortest service time keeps communications on toe and gives consumers greater freedom to pursue the most practical ways each time. The organization believes that unchanged binding time is more consistent with the goals of the law. A consumer room agrees, making significant comments that the maximum binding time for contracts should be extended from six months to 12 months. According to the consumer lab, from 2007 it was a very important requisition for consumers and resulted in increased mobility on an individual basis and on which service or service combination is appropriate for a pattern of use at any given time. It may now be that there is some argument to extend this time period and even some argument that has to do with consumer interests and goals for active competition, etc. It's just possible. But there is a minimum requirement that the bill is logical, especially when the bill is developing so little changed for what, the third time? Yeah. The interests of consumers must always be of the doubt when these changes are made, not just the interests of the companies. I suggest that the environment and transport committee focus on the change it puts into the best interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u150	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for interesting points he brought. He introduced the transport and communications contributions in the currently presented budget, the financial agenda. He also stepped onto 72nd. I find it very interesting when it comes to the tie time. That's it. A senator into the double, the six - month tie that is spoken of today, I think -- no, maximum of 12 months of the new law than in the current law, is, I think, six months. However, the rules allow for a period of 6◯24 months, which I find rather interesting when it is recommended in these laws that 12 months will not be covered, and we all know how justice works here, to go beyond regulations. That's why I have a question. This is how the senator feels. A senator said that this bill has been performed successfully. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that something had been better left, such as. with the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u151	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Well, as I came into them, it may well be that there is some evidence that this is the way of handling things, making this change. But no, I don't think it's a sign of good work to make such a change without getting any material evidence to support it. I think that's the short answer. And why do you pull it up, and why do you pay attention to something like that? That may even be the case. Because the current government does not always take position with consumers and active competition. We can see that, for example. When it comes to the most incredible rules for short - term electrical sales, many thousands of electronic users have somehow been crossed across to one enterprise automatically without being asked. This is all under the regulations established by the Minister and the guidelines established by the Power Institute. It's moving one company into a competitive market automatically, completely overexcited business every month. This has been pointed at a few times. I forgot to mention that the company used its position to make a special tax for this problem -- electricity users and priced them -- I don't remember, I think it was a 70% higher price than common consumers. This is one example. Another example we talked about, me and what. The head of the environment and transportation committee, on a radio show the other day, is ISNIC, which is actually just a subscription to Icelandic domains that end. Is and is in a monopoly position, which is being protected by the board of directors and is not considered to interfere. So the moves are frightening and, yes, I think this bill needs to be examined in the exact light of these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u152	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for the answer. I'm going to agree with him that there are no material reasons for this change. I agree with him when it comes to the fact that this was not a good enough place to be done. Here in front of me, I have 130 pages, more than that, a bill with a report. I would have thought the Ministry had offered a little more reasoning and might have done a little more when it comes to proclaiming these changes. This is a natural crucial bill, and these are major changes that are taking place there, and apparently these are not well thought - out enough, especially with regard to the factors. A senator mentioned. And, as I said, I think it's a total minimum requirement to give good and material reasons for so much change when it comes to such a big bill as we're talking here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u153	A respectable president. I think it's safe to agree with all the points presented here. Of course, it's a lot of shit. I wouldn't be telling the truth if I said I read it to the end. Well, then it's fine to just look at some specific points there. Yes, it may be said that the Ministry and the Minister failed the test only when it comes to arguing why a certain change is proposed. Similarly, I feel that it is just a minimum degree of discretion toward reporters who have been critical of the film, especially when the bill is being submitted for the third time, that it is reacting to comments and criticisms.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u154	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for entering the rights of consumers. Communication with a communications company is a huge jungle for consumers. I was reading the reviews of the Nite Owl Lab they brought last time the bill was submitted. It makes this comment that what is meant by a ◯ manageable price, or what it is determined to do, is unclear and suggest that there be explanations or criteria for consumers and markets to figure out how successful the price may be. So says: ▪ On the other hand, the consumer living room wants to point out that in 4 mg. 62. g. reports that there will be an issue of dissension of services carried out by the post and telecommunications agency for decision but, otherwise, no one in the bill will explain where consumers can seek exclusive disagreements due to communication. It is possible to assume that consumers can bring up the problem for the Commission of goods and services, but it can be noted that the consumer clinic has spoken about the establishment of a special lawsuit or a ruling committee that handles problems involving telecommunications. I'd like to direct the senator to see if he feels that the rights of consumers in this bill are well considered and if he agrees with the Neighbours Office to establish a special case or ruling committee that will address issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u155	A respectable president. I guess that's what the Navitator Office said to the 62rd paragraph. the right to an all-time service at an affordable price. Of course, it is with such terms that they are quite ecstatic, and it may be necessary for a minister to define with a law on what is meant. In terms of an independent ruling committee, is not the communication committee at work that will have such a case? I have to admit that I don't know the bill well enough, not out and out, but the post and communications agency is expected to play a role in monitoring. However, as has been criticized here today, the Agency may not be properly funded by these increased monitoring plans, so there are some things to think about here. I just hope that the Environmental and Transport Committee will be able to cover comments, e.g. They're as good as dead. A senator mentioned. I think it is in the spirit of good legislation that even if it cannot be responded to that review or comment, it will be somehow explained in the committee's opinion why it is not done, etc., that there is a basis for the viewpoint behind the final product of this bill that we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u156	A respectable president. Since the Netothal Office speaks of the establishment of a special complaint or decision-making committee that will address issues, there does not seem to be anything that will address any disagreements with consumers. It also seems a bit hairy to consumers, like what. A senator earlier said that in logic it was said that extra space could be in the interests of consumers, and it is said that the price is attainable. Really, there is no doubt whether this will be in the best interests of consumers and increasing this time from six months to 12 months is something that no one knows will be in the best interests of consumers and actually unlikely that it will be because it is usually better for consumers to move around if that is true. And then this in terms of a attainable price; a manageable price is a natural mildest stretching term.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u157	A respectable president. There is certainly a ruling committee for telecommunications and mail, and it discussed in the report with the bill that a critical conflict between the competitive authorities and the post - communications agency and this ruling committee has been carried out. I expect the Environment and Transport Committee to look closely at this bill and to oversee these blurred limits of authority, whether or not they need to be sharpened, or whether it may be. something in these indications that consumers need even stronger resources to appeal to their complaints.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u158	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I was wondering about the consumers 'cause I talked to each other about it. The senator gave it a passion, but those senators who have come up in the chair before protested, so maybe I'm going to do it. However, I would like to reflect it on my mind, and I would like to hear a thought. The senator's concern, that in this bill, as interesting as it is, is as important and important as it is, is determined in many ways by the increased monitoring duties of the post and communications agency with the various members of this large issue. It also lays down in general the increased capacity of this same organisation, the knowledge of matters, as shown in their review of the matter, in order to take care of this increased monitoring, this important monitoring. It'd be interesting to hear from you. A senator in charge of this because we have often lived under the fact that we are going to be very much of our research, without absolutely supporting them by means of the funds needed, or by the head of a situation, from the way they are listened to what they have to say. This is where I take, for example. Personal protection, for example, is repeated at a meeting of fixed committees with insight, and it is some kind of a footnote if this has been taken into consideration. But it would be interesting if that were so. A senator has considered the reading on this matter whether we are doing these surveillance agencies sufficiently below our head. [[The president calls.]] Are we making the preparations so that they can carry out the role they are assigned to carry out this bill's terms? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u159	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. According to the bill's report, the estimated government cost is up to 185 billion. K. Every year, they include an extra status of a remote lab. It is extremely difficult to tell whether this is enough, especially as the world becomes more complex and these digital structures become more important than ever. Of course, it causes a measure of concern about what kind of transport and communications and affairs of communication have been introduced into the recent financial program of the government, which is now far from promising good. It is important that such intensive monitoring plans not only be financed by a single enterprise but also be assured of the future. That's the short answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u160	Mr. President. Thanks for that. Of course, this was not a simple question, and the answer is certainly not available, but it is important to keep in mind the work of the committee to ensure this, since it is so wide and important. When you think about the extent to which this is so far, consider: Is it normal for such a big matter to be heard by the Ministry? There's an enormous infrastructure. It's about a very complex industry. I was wondering if a senator would have thought about whether this was the right thing to do, and this is not quite a fair question perhaps, and I just call out for speculations, to get the approach to this case when the committee starts to work it, e.g. I think the Department of Woods, which was in the past life, was the Ministry that had these issues and they knew a lot about it, just to ensure the best, most careful work in the case of a committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u161	A respectable president. I have to say, I have found that criticism from our Central Company has led our communications to the Ministry of Development and College, which, in other respects, has become quite convincing. I think there's only a few things I can say. I don't think it would be so crazy just to get reviews or to get opinions from more problems than this in the Congress of this case and even from the State Department or National Security Council. It's a natural bill that has national security to do so much, so I think I can accept that idea. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u162	Mr. President. This is a huge bill, as I came in before you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, and how important it is that such large and extensive changes in communication are made in Iceland. One thing I want to come into is how important it is to keep my arms around the Internet. We in Iceland are way back on that one. It's a little strange that a country with as much fancy infrastructure as Iceland didn't get access to Internet security and ensures maximum Internet security. Where to draw the line? What does it mean to be real Internet security? There are a few things about the bill that I would like to come on. I'm going to start with a noncommunication, sr. 41 st. Communicator song, but 71nd par. in the bill. It includes the quality of the ministry, which seems to be well-secured, but the Minister's Regulation may be contrary to this rather interesting situation. It has entered, with permission of the President: The secretary will set up a Regulation on the implementation of non-employment activities, including ... and then comes a complete count from a- to a f-a- team. These behaviors and such laws seem to be a tip for the sleigh, Mr. President - for the greater portion of this terms, i.e. that ministers have a small amount of authority in which they might go against the laws set. That has even been true. conducted in the election bill and in some of the early posts that have been submitted during this election period and will no doubt continue to be published. I just think it's a little weird. So, what is the point of enforcing laws? Why is there a need for a minister of regulations that seems to be endless during this terms? Is it because the Ministry doesn't have time, is it not well designed to do these bills well, to include detailed legal or legal matters, and to explain this in more detail? I don't know. It's kind of boring to the highest. The university, industrial and innovation minister, Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigbjörndóttir, is not here to answer this question because I am really curious. Besides, I'd like to come in on 72rd. for a period of 12 months. The protocol allows for a four - to six - month binding period, but the implementation in the law is now 12 months. I don't understand. There's only one legal recommendation somehow, and then the Minister of Regulation has the authority to change this. I just don't understand why no one's ever pointed this out. Has this law been overlooked? We've all come into this today, which has spoken in this matter, whether in the first speech, in the second speech, or in the answers, how large and how large this matter is, how vital it is that it be done well. Also, I'd like to come in on 83rd. which are recommended to negotiate network security and communications companies and to be agreed on by the President's permission: If this is necessary, telecommunications companies and the Internet security team should make a contract for the installation and management of the technical monitoring services for the telecommunications company to identify the risks and signals of attacks, corruption and other sources of circumstances that could pose a threat to the security of the telecommunications company and the communications services of the communications company. This is really weird. It has been implemented in the second case, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ Standards 1.mg. should be at least containing: a. Systems and network associated with the alarm network, b. technical solutions used during the alarm, and c. The type and processing of these data, including Information collected, their treatment, their saving, and their destruction. Yeah, cool. But I don't quite understand what a telecommunications clinic is based on its essential assessment on an Internet security team. The work has been considered, and it's quite nice, but it's still very strange. I just think it's more ecstatic. We all know as part of Iceland's legislature law that the ecstatic rules like these are very dangerous. Especially do we need to be careful and if not, just make adjustments in wording. I hope this is going to be recorded. The environment and transport committees, because they are strangely worded and ecstatic. We cannot, not when it comes to big things like this. I'd like to enter the data cache only, but you can store data for six months, dr. 89st. The bill. That's a little dangerous, too. It speaks of, by permission of the president: The registry shall ensure that a communications company can inform which of its clients was the user's contact number, IP number or user name, as well as informing on all the connections the user has made, dates, dates of which were connected, and the amount of data transferred to the person involved, as well as the number of numbers given to the specific client during the specified period. Really speaking, Mr President? This is weird. I think this is the law, 89. G., report to privacy and personal protection. These are literally listed items that can be stored. I don't understand anything about this, and I don't get it. I would really like to read a little more about what kind of work and what kind of food was being done on this bill. I'm really curious. I think my main criticism is to the Internet security squad. There's something that's rather strongly recommended in the bill that's being submitted. I think it takes a hell of a fight to change the wording and just keep the content of this bill, which I think is really important. I have full faith that the government representatives will take a very good fight. The Environment and Transport Committee and I are just waiting for discussions that will be held on the committee. I know it's the highest. A minister spoke of the need for the bill to get to a committee as soon as possible. I agree, but, of course, we need to have a discussion about this bill, because we've been discussing it here all day. It's just that it's important, and it's large that it can't go to a committee without us making our comments so that they can be accepted at a committee meeting. However, this is an extremely important discussion that is taking place here today, and I just want to thank the proprietor for starting this very important discussion that truly involves many aspects of society. It is needed, and it's a good thing that we take it here and now to our foreign legislature. As I would like to thank the Minister for her participation in the discussion. At least as late as she showed up, she was involved, and I just felt that it was very uptight. It is important that the executives approach matters with responsibility and firmness in the interests of the public and that is exactly what we are doing here today, for a very long time. As we take up a discussion like this, it is important that we approach it in solution and in a way that is likely to help us reach a common conclusion. I expect a minister to take into account the discussion that has taken place in his plan to achieve the common will of the council and of the government of all. I find it amazing to hear that other senators agree with me in that we take this matter seriously. I think the solutions we're discussing here must take into account, for there have been a lot of solutions in this pontta today and I'm celebrating it. Seriously, I do. It's amazing to see the topic of conversation that we wish to do so more often than we know exactly where we are working, and we know exactly what the procedure of the council is, mainly to the Commission. Other than that, I would like to thank all who have participated in the discussion, as well as the members of the council involved, and at the same time encourage ministers to do their good works. I hope that we can continue to have upbuilding conversation on this subject, both here and there in the community. As I said, it's just a really important discussion that's taken place today, and as I came into question earlier, it's the bill of the 130 - page book. It's just a tie, and it's kind of incomprehensible. As if it's not difficult enough to scan through all the documents that are distributed every day, and I'm just celebrating it, but it's a really large and large volume we're doing here today. Understandably, much discussion has taken place, and we are going to respond to an increased understanding of this bill, on this big and important bill. This is about natural security, not everyone, and communications in general, which are just enormously important structures in this country. Therefore, all of us benefit from continuing to discuss this until we have reached a common conclusion as to how we want to apply it to the environment and transport committee. I have nothing more to say, Mr. President. I'll make my leave, and I'm looking forward to making a reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u163	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I acted as if she mentioned the great regulations that this government seems to have granted her to implementing laws on her own. And that's why they used Internet security. A senator mentioned Internet security and the sources that seem to be there for this reason are not long since we heard the former president of the United States speak of forbidding Chinese to sell computer equipment and saying that this was Chinese spy equipment and was causing this particular company quite spectacular damage. When you see and hear such things and realize what they're talking about, you ask yourself how far governments can go to misuse their potential situation in this regard and to provide some special advantage to those who may be on the market to sell comparable or equivalent products. I'd like a piece. A senator to talk to me about it just because I thought she was afraid of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u164	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's God for the answer. This is certainly a big, important matter, and the question concerns international security. I'll have to say the word with what. A senator says that this is a very strange saying that has taken place by the former president of the United States. I'm sorry, I don't quite remember what the question was.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u165	How far you can go in this Internet security and government authority...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u166	Actually, it's a very important question, and I think we here in Iceland have not quite thought that we have not reached a proper network security. We have not wondered how far we can go and have Internet security for us in order to rule out certain customers or peoples from business dealings with us. I don't think it can be appreciated as the situation is now because there are still some problems when it comes to Internet security in Iceland. We haven't made it, and this bill shows black and white how far we have to go. Of course, there is no meaningful basis for reasoning, denying business dealings or banning business dealings with certain nations on the basis of Internet security. It's a natural serious matter, and I think it's some kind of gas description of the nation if we use those arguments for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u167	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer is the other side of it. We are talking about traffic security and how we can prevent damage by setting up traffic lights and all sorts of eliminated activities. Aren't we at some point in that place of all this that we've gone further into the user mechanism than in the security? Do we not just sit back and struggle with having gone ahead of ourselves in this, just like calves in spring, using and enjoying the technology that telecommunications have actually given us but have we forgotten to secure things? Isn't that the way it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u168	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for second answer. I need to agree with him. We've got some great technology here, and we got all kinds of stuff, but it's forgotten to keep it safe. We're taking advantage of this, we're enjoying this, but what is missing is the Internet, the security that comes from using this technology. Now we have a lot of big companies, and if I say so ourselves, we're doing a pretty good job of innovation, but somehow we've forgotten to think about it. Is it not just the legislature? I need to ask myself. We're putting the law and giving them instructions, and we're obviously thinking about this right now at our Icelandic legislature council. I think it's completely ridiculous. This is a very important point, and I hope this gets a little further and grabs a minister's ears.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. Because of it. A senator entered 72. G., just as we were discussing earlier, I began to study the reviews and found a review that specifically encourages these changes and, in fact, encouraged further progress in extending the time of contracts. This is from the stakeholder Vodafone (Show Hf.) and it says, by permission of the president: The economic impacts of customers on all communication and the market as a whole are very negative. The price of the partners may seem to be higher in order to cover the costs. In the markets abroad, communicators have the authority to make more contracts with consumers and thus cut down prices, improve services, and ensure financial stability. This is a short argument based on the interests of the companies but on the secondary impact on consumer interests. I think it's hard for us to decide whether this is the right view or whether it's a convincing argument. I think maybe you'd need to try to look it up a little bit better. But I get to direct a query to what. A senator: Why do you think so? A senator's conclusion that this change is made? Is that why such views have come from stakeholders, and if so, why not just be clearly stated in the bill's report? Why is it going around like a cat around a hot grin?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u170	President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jónsson before the counter, and in fact, a very good test. He came in on 72nd. And the time of tie-up to mention the review of Mr. Vodafone's stakeholder. That is exactly where long - term or further adjustments were encouraged, even further in these areas. There was obviously something that was not agreed on in the bill, that these materials would go further. That's what the government has to do. Now I'm going to start with the Ministry's work plans and mainly the Minister. V.E.G. Ministers tend to do so - at least in this terms period because I started this terms - not taking it into account, not working this out of the interests of the interests of the people. I understand, of course, but sometimes when we're working on such a big, big deal, we just have to accept that there's people out there, there's companies out there that know better about this than we do. Then he mentioned the viewpoints, whether they matter, and whether they should be taken into account. It's not all that matters here. That's my job. It's the kind of work I'm focusing mainly on, the type and subsidence of this bill, that these reviews have been gunned over because maybe Vodafone wasn't the only writer who pointed out the same thing. Why do I think it was on the bill? I don't know. I wondered if there's a better deal or if it's worth some company and if we could get better contracts if we had more time. Well, that's a hell of a good one, anyway. I can't answer exactly right now, because I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u171	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. In the directive, this fundamental change in the communication order we're discussing is, like, a whale. A senator entered earlier, expecting a period of up to 24 months. Based on information combined with the Cullen Advisory, this is a maximum range of distances in the directive in the Communications Act in Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and Britain. Vodafone claims e.g. that it would be practical for consumers if negotiations could be made until 24 months. I'm afraid to tell about it right now. This may be something that needs to be discussed and properly explained, whether there is real reason to extend the time, and it may be necessary to go all the way up, or if there is no reason at all to extend this time of consumer protection, whether we should keep it for six months.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u172	Mr. President. These were excellent points. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson came along, and it is important to consider that too. Whether it's important to agree with these views, I don't know the end is a big change. That's what's at the top. The minister did just after the stakeholder Vodafone asked for 24 months to stop at 12 months already in the current law for six months. I think it's a good change. I think it's a good leap, half a jump, and then maybe the next time these laws get a full reexamination, they'll take an even better view of the views and comments of stakeholders. Hv. A senator up many countries, I don't quite remember exactly which countries they were at the same time. A senator listed, but of course, we need to look to other countries when it comes to such important and massive nuclear particles, where we are more likely to be behind these materials. I sincerely hope that this bill will be revised in a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u173	I want to thank you. A senator for a highly fun measure of online security and what actually involves Internet security. I'm going to admit that I'm just an ordinary person, and if anything pretty bad to use on everything like that. I talk on the phone and use Facebook, but I'm not really thinking about anything else. That's a very interesting discussion. I also found it interesting that the Minister's Regulation and why the bills are not being carried out so that regulations are not needed. We're accepting something here that may not be fully developed, and it's changed by Regulation. It is recommended for laws that are then expected to change, and that is naturally not a very clever course. Then I thought it was with data storage for six months, and the list of things I understood that not only were allowed to be stored but should contain something huge. It was very broad and seemed to take over, in fact, everything people do on the Internet and that they can be looked up far back in time, or at least six months, is just a tiny scary thought. I'm just wondering what the senator believes is the point of this huge data cover and whether the senator feels that these data control issues are contrary to personal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u174	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Ásthildur For good questions and good thought, Lady Eyþórsdóttir, the Lóa of Eythra, is loving. First, she named the Minister's Regulation. I have to agree with her in some way. I don't understand why these bills aren't won. Is it because during the last assembly it took so long for the council to start working for something, and then there was an autopsy on the Board of Directors, as I don't know what and the Ministry is certainly still following their own footsteps and trying to find themselves and especially the Ministers? Of course, the council is not to be bitten. There are no prime products that are not well-worked and then the council is to be retraced, whether in this chamber, with endless discussions, and then with committees and the rest of the power, only a minister who puts on the whole project and I don't know what the Regulation is. Of course, there is a need for regulations for further implementation of some items, such as making doses of criminal consumption. There we need to measure the specific amount of consumption more closely than in the law. But when it comes to stuff like that, I don't understand. I don't understand this bill which indicates exactly that a minister's authority will tread the law. It's not okay. We know exactly how the valedictorian works. Laws are higher than regulations. Hv. A senator came into the database, and I agree with the viewpoint she presented there and asked about the purpose of this list of things that fall under it. I'm going to be honest with you, but this sounds like there's a little bit of information on us that they're giving Internet security units permission to spy on us by keeping the data on us. This is exactly something I make a remark to, and I hope I don't get the point, at least not so extensive, not so thorough, and that there'll be a sort of remark to this also in the water. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u175	A respectable president. That is an interesting discussion. That's exactly what it means, for example. that the Minister's regulations are not meant to drum the law, just well spoken of by you. Also, this is to say that bills that come here should be so well-worked, yes, we want to discuss their subjects, but we are not to be responsible for fixing them. It is not to be our responsibility, it is not possible to consider this responsibility at the council, nor is it really to be needed but to be accepted by the council if that is the case. The evidence, as I say, is very broad and I agree with it. A senator said that I wondered what the point is, unless it's just an investigation into some criminal or something like that, yet I don't see the need outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u176	A respectable president. I'm so happy to hear that I am and what I am. A senator agrees on these views that have been presented in talks and only here tonight in general. I've seen this Regulation more often and quite much now during this terms, as I said earlier, I was entering a council for the first time during this terms of election. Now I'm inside the fourth time, and whenever I come in here, I notice some new bill where the Minister recommends further implementation or further implementation in the Regulation. It is, of course, an unacceptable situation today. I think it's a minimum requirement for Ministers to do their bills well, since the Presidential projections are the only primes that are allowed to pass through the council, as we have seen in these last months and in this term. Then they can totally win this bill well, and they can't put the rest of their jobs at the council, at the council, and the rest of the power on the Ministers. It's an inconsistencies, and it's simply not supposed to be this way, not in Congress, and we live in Congress, not Ministerhood.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u177	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for these discussions that have taken place today, for many of us are almost completely broke in such technical matters, which still matter so much. I remember when I was six in the country, and the first phone I met was a country phone. There, everyone could listen. We were thrilled when someone was calling from town to town to sneak on the phone and get to listen. Then the environment changed, and you no longer listen. There was a phone and something else, and then you couldn't listen anymore. It's just a return to the past. Now you can listen with a variety of methods that may seem to be common and able to use, usually for the benefit of yourself by using these for bad purposes, by trying to make money and threaten people, and by using them in war and spy out about people. This is a technology that we have somehow been unable to cope with and have been tried to deal with in Europe by means of laws and orders for such things. I'm told this is coming here for the third time. For some reason, this matter has not been taken over by two members, but hopefully the agreement to complete this matter at this council is reached because it is very important to us that this arrangement is there because there is so much up to this point. Our lives are starting to run so much through communication, and through the use of telecommunications, it's becoming like electricity, if you forget your phone at home, you're impossible. This technology, despite its potential for visualization, has become a big and positive influence on us, making communication easier and faster. I heard one before. In a speech today, a senator says that in the old days, when he was a little boy and was calling his uncle in Norway, I think, he got to call once a month because it was so expensive. Now, though, you can pick up your phone and call almost anywhere without much cost. What seems to be happening is that we are receiving legal improvements and consumer improvements through European directives. That's how it works now. In most cases, the European Union is the one who makes up the rights that benefit us despite our not being in this relationship, this bad relationship. I just want to admit that I don't have much knowledge of this. In most cases, you have been a consumer, you have used the equipment, and then you let others think about making sure that everything else is okay. You trust the experts, the technicians, to make sure everything is okay, and then you wake up with a bad dream. We have repeatedly woke up to see that all defenses had been cleared up. They're robbing adults by getting into home banks and stealing from people. It is spreading bad material, personal material, into the net. They're going in, like this has been pointed out, people's computers and then using them to attack other computers. These so - called hackers, or what they call it, always seem to find some methods to be -- well, at least they don't do good things, that's something else they're wondering about. Hence, it is so necessary that there is some background or overall law that covers all of these enormous areas that are difficult to grasp, not just the technicalities, but the way we are protected. It's not enough that we make 5G and dump data between speed and speed, but the consumers need to be thought of and protected from this environment, which can often be pretty bad, I have to say. That's why these laws are important. It is possible that we will be able to detect in them some shortcomings, and there have been a number of issues in this regard and specific articles in the bill to be considered more carefully. That has even been true. has been identified as a government authority to take action because of Internet security and to handle some special equipment that they feel is the best. Or the government may mismanage its situation and choose the equipment for which their friends made or are authorized. Certain countries were banning China's equipment because China was an enemy, and this was just a spy equipment that was being introduced into people's homes. You need to review how much government authority should have to guide you in selecting an enterprise that pleases you. Another factor that has been mentioned is consumer protection and any agreement to make and any form of negotiations to be made. I'm not going to have any particular opinions on this, but it's been said that it's been transferred from six months to 12 but that the warrant for these contracts to be 24 months. I don't know what's right about that. For the consumer, it may be important that long contracts are not made to help him switch the service if he wants to. But it may also be the other side, that a longer contract can make a better price and create some stability in the person selling, not always having to be out in the market looking for the customers, but having some stability and regret in what they're doing. Of course, this is important. Then we need to determine how much personal information consumers should give up. The need to ensure that a person is protected completely. There are many things to consider. There have been ideas of the premeditated operation of police to tap people's phones, and the question is how far you can go to this stage to get information about people. I think it all needs to be examined, and mostly with people's interests in mind, not their companies. Of course, this should always be about serving people, not that some people are benefiting from some business. This is primarily a service, and for this part it is watching. Hence, it is essential that we make a rule that is sufficient to protect the consumer. I think that when we consider most of the regulations that come from the European Union, they are in the process of looking to ensure that the right of individuals is not being handled. You had a bit of fun when you could go abroad, and you didn't have to pay a lot of money to talk on the phone. At one time when you went abroad, you had only tens of thousands of dollars of dollars if you allowed yourself to speak on the telephone between countries, but this evil European relationship prevented you from doing so and made sure that we went to pay some serious bills in Iceland as well as anywhere else. So I think we must be glad it's becoming a reality, that it's becoming a cover for all communications. We're just supposed to lay down one thing to make this legal at this council and not leave this day in a drawer yet for the council. Of course, certain things could improve. Then, first and foremost, I am considering these factors, such as the length of contracts and the extent of the state's clearance, both to those who serve this service and to the value of consumer protection in this matter as well as to any other subject we are dealing with here. It's all about us looking at it with the consumer's eyes and making defenses. Finally, because that's where it's talking about the distribution rate and it's supposed to be, when everything's sold about 750 million, I think I'm gonna start wondering, there's some limited resource, the rate that the state can sell. It's doing exactly what to do with limited resources, i.e. paying to use them, not just this, not just the telecommunications, but all the resources that this nation has.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u178	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I'd like to come in with a few things a little bit. A senator mentioned in his talk. First, it is the point that has not been discussed here today and has to focus on the maximum length of contract binding. According to the bill, time is being extended from 6 months to 12 months, and the code allows for a maximum of 24 months. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson read up the 24 - month mark that has several countries in Europe. I think it would be wise to do that. The Environment and Transport Committee requested that there be some sort of analysis, as it is not clear what is most suitable for the customer. It's obviously cost for the companies to follow their clients repeatedly, this constant circle. On the other hand, always attending the best offer is the motivation. But I think we should try to approach this on the basis of what's likely to be the most economic advantage for our client, and there I think that much of the interests of companies and customers can go together. However, we must approach it with some certainty, at least as well as with as much information we can. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he thinks it is possible to make a reasonable choice, we have time for the committee to investigate, and this point might be adapted. Maybe this 12-month suggestion is the best. I'm afraid the six-month approach that Danir alone has, if I understand correctly, in addition to us, is a very short time, but if it could be the answer to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u179	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I agree with the senator on this matter. I think there's some sort of diagnostic. I don't at this point understand if it's better. It's good to have 24 months because I think there could be more discount on having a longer contract, and a short contract will always give them a dead period of time in the telecommunications companies where they don't have the client. Somehow, they have to bridge that time, and they'll probably do it with a higher price. On the contrary, by a long contract, we may prevent those who want to change their service if they want to do so. But like a dog. A senator says I think it's right to make an assessment. It is important that you go the right way, and there may be some golden averager in this regard. I'd think six months would be way too short. That's why I think it's good to extend time to 12, but I'm not sure that I would be particularly opposed because there was a authority to make longer contracts than then it's just the client who decides. Does he want to make a 12-month contract or 24 months? There should be a measure of freedom of choice in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u180	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. You see, the very point is that the cost of business eventually falls into all this carousel. But the other thing I wanted to ask. A senator turned to what he entered at the end of his talk, i.e. distribution of frequencies based on the views of limited resources. Frequencies are obviously limited resources. Nothing gets out of the way. That's what worries me. The figure is 750 million, I don't remember it at a million, is based on reassignment in times of distribution, so it's for companies that are already using these numbers. I'm worried that this account, as a whole, will land on the clients of these companies, because it is really not a natural thing to be in the market at this recovery. It is the same number of clients that use the same amount of service the day before and the day after publication of the account. I'm concerned that the cost of this is completely mirrored, only 100%, to the end of the user, the customer. I think it's a very interesting question from the price of access to limited resources and to match exactly what was referred to as government resolution, with the consequences of what it has had in the past few years, the interpretation of the Central Party since meeting, if I recall correctly, of the exact diagnosis, the full analysis, of all these resources, and the limited resources of the country. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether to some extent he shares this concern that this cost was only reflected on a pair's current communications customers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u181	The president said one minute, but he forgot to press the button because it's not going to happen automatically. It's absolutely a president's fault, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u182	A respectable president. Yes, we agree on that. The cost will eventually land on the customer. The question, though, is always this: Who should enjoy the wealth of the nation? It's not everyone who uses it, and having resources on it could be distributed to everyone, not just to those who enjoy it. In that sense, it is normal for me to be paid a resource price that hits those who use it. But because this is something that the people share, I hold that it is done in this way. But, of course, I'm just having a bit of fun reading this, and it's talking about resource fees, and it's talking about selling out, and these are terms you know about other resources, and it's nice to see how it's going to be developed at the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u183	Mr. President. I cut it down in my speech anyway. The senator said that he seems to have considerable faith in this bill, and on the whole, he rejoices at its arrival and hopes that it will be accepted. What also came out in the debate of the senator who attracted my attention was that he spoke of governments who misuse their positions, questioning how far you can go in order to protect police and other governments, and he referred to the bill as stating that it would be intended. to make sure that the rights of individuals are not being carried out. There is now a bill in the bill that is in the current communications law and is virtually unchanged. This is a directive that comes up in 2005 following a discussion in Europe about what is called data storage, which is related to communications companies to keep specific information on the behavior of people on the Internet in case someone is going to break up at any time in any way. This law in Europe was judged invalid in 2014, and it has been in the discussion some attempts to implement such a law, but it has not yet been done, and it has not yet been done. So here we have a set of rules in this bill, which is based on rules that have been set to act against people's human rights. Asked for this provision is the highest. A minister in effect just exposed the fact that the matter has not really been given enough thought. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator if he's not worried about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u184	A respectable president. Yeah, I'd worry about it. As I said in the beginning, I'm just a player in these things. I think if the techs who are making this bill don't realize this - unless they're aware that they're going to try to keep it in, I don't know - then the committee should take it to the limit. That I'm spying on people is not a thing that I don't believe in and that they're acquitted to me. I would back it up, if the law was in there, that it would be taken out. But in the foundation, I feel that the bill itself is a positive change because it's holding the person as well as possible, at the same time. However, there are certain flaws there, such as how governments feel they can carry on with themselves that some particular company is spying. We'll dump the equipment and take someone else. These are methods I don't like. Whatever it is. Of course, a senator here mentions something that needs to be crossed and comes out of the bill before going to the final payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u185	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Just to be completely unconvinced, this law was passed in Icelandic law at its time, not because of our obligation to introduce any European rule or other, I want to make sure there is no misunderstanding about it, but will come in upon the request of the government of Iceland following a discussion that it is now a slave-friendly affair. Now that technology offers this, let's just keep an eye on people and make sure that this information exists in case we need it. In fact, it is not unnatural for rulers to want greater power. Hence, such requests must always be taken with great criticism and support. That's what I'm talking about. A senator, whether this law is in there because people haven't predicted it or if they're aware in there, I'd like to point out that here at this council has repeatedly been given a bill to eliminate the law from the current law and that it has not been discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u186	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these indications that make you just a little touchy. I learned now only a young man that I didn't mean to make sense to people. People have to decide their lives for themselves, and that's how I've tried to behave, that's just how it would be, each of us on our way, and it was shaped by our own will. The fact that I was kept some material for years so I could pick me up sometime because of something that I might have done as a teenager, that my plans are completely ludicrous. There would be a room full of all kinds of shit that I experienced as a young man. But I'm not sure that I'd accuse myself of being kept in some evidence, so I just thank you for the tip and hopefully this discussion will be taken out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u187	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Guðbrandur of Einarsson's honor for his passage. I would like to discuss this bill's aspect of competition and, in fact, the consumer protection that is being introduced into Icelandic communicators in several terms. Maybe you remember. A senator after the discussion that took place here during the approval of a so-called Moustémark that was so small, it was being used a small fraction of the bill to cover the overall communication that was submitted to the last and last assembly. It was about the other and this, but it was the less part of the environment and transport committee to try to set up regulations to ensure consumers and to ensure competition and that a remote network could actually intervene when communication parties with a very market-based position do not guarantee consumers' positions. I'm asking why. A senator can agree with me on the fact that a wide range of regulations from Europe are enriching European legislation when it comes to consumers and consumers' protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u188	A respectable president. Yes, I observed the discussion that took place after Míla was sold. Maybe this bill had to have been ready when Mila was sold by the changes we're here to see how this bill is made. But it's all about increasing consumer protection. That is what counts in everything we do. I had, for example. There is no question about whether Milu's owner's name was Jón or John, it didn't make any difference to me whether foreign people or members of the country should do this. What disturbed me back then was to see the Shimann sold and that the money to be used in the Lands Bank got up for some reason and some people took the liberty of slaughtering their money in the collapse. But what, of course, always has to be guaranteed are public interests, public property must be guaranteed at any point, and it needs to be protected from the least wise individuals who intend to make money on it or to oppress it. I feel that we need to focus on this consumer protection and, in most cases, have been added by European directives.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u189	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Yes, it is, in fact, twofold. This bill is not just about this vast security network that makes it possible for us to have access to communications and that it is available to all the people at all times to communicate. We will, as it were, guarantee it not by such laws as this, rather than by making health care secure throughout the country, even if we write it in the law. However, it is equally important to ensure that there will not be a market monopoly, where effective competition and government authorities will be given some kind of means to put pressure into practice if companies are getting too reckless about this. Finally, I ask why. A senator: He considers him to be a means of surveillance, such as, for example, the U.S.A. For example, telecommunication agencies or other monitoring centres have access to a sufficient level of control, e.g. In Iceland or in other institutions, do they follow protocols? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u190	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this answer. I don't realize it, of course, it's a huge case and we just see it sometimes on our phone that we're getting foreign calls, which you don't know where it came from, sometimes from Africa, sometimes from somewhere else, and it's just trying to get you. Who's to monitor this, that I'm not being attacked by the phone for time and time, all kinds of phone numbers, Netflix or Netflux, where they're sending an e-mail to put your subscription, fix something, all kinds of crap like that? We see this all the time, and I'm not sure that the government will control this and can protect us. [[The president calls.]] However, efforts should be made. We place traffic laws in an effort to prevent accidents, but they do occur at times. [[The president calls.]] So all of this is improving, and hopefully we'll just continue taking orders from the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u191	President wants less of it. Councilmen say that when three members of Congress respond, the time for the second is one minute, not one and a half, or quite so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u192	Madam President. I didn't get to cross all the points, and since I hope someone from the Environmental and Transport Committee is listening, I'm gonna try to slide through them in five minutes and probably get a little too fast. In 14,◯16. par. is talking about distribution of frequency rights. As we have discussed, these are maps of distribution systems that the communications companies often show what we call a theoretical map, which shows where the signal could possibly be achieved under all the best circumstances. But reality is different. It's that the signal isn't coming all over the place. Then I'd like to point out that those of us who have had contact at the scene of a disaster have made good use of the fact that there are simple programs that can be put on the phone and then drive around, and this folder is all made very easy. Perhaps it would be nice to hire one or two students to drive through Iceland this summer for a telecommunications agency to obtain a real public map. But now I already have one and a half minutes and I have to go to the next topic. That's 53 and 54. ............. Indeed, the cost has as much as one sledgehammer. A senator pointed out, dropped by going from country to country, but we can do better than we have so far. Today, it is Europeans who get free here, and I think it would be good to try to get cross-country deals with the major countries we travel to, and the countries where people travel to us, to make it easier to go from country to country. Up to 74th. Talks about the accounts and their transparency, and this has given us just how complicated it is often to understand the amount of service that is being paid. There I would like to encourage an environmental and transportation committee to consider what happened in the United States when the communications companies suddenly needed to give up exactly on accounts for what was charging and breaking down the cost so that people could say, "Yes, but I wasn't asking for these services. The exchange is not good in the accounts we receive today. - In the 86th. is about the protection of communications workers. I would especially like to discuss the 4th. mgr., about a radio cable that goes into the sea, and I'd like to pray. Environmental and Transport Committees to consider the suggestions such as is being brought through salmon farms in Seyster land, where the Farice string enters the country as well, and there goes a very large cruise ship every summer. If you try to plant all three in one piece, you realize that it doesn't work out. But the bill does not specifically tell how far away from the cables these items need to be. I'm gonna go back for 50 seconds for 68. c. i. e., a government company is forbidden to set different standards or conditions related to nationality, residence, confirmation, etc. There, I don't think the art is exhaustive enough, considering what we're usually putting into law and other things about what needs to be watched. For a 71 st. Talks about lack of space. It is very important that we are not charged more than what we are using. There are two things, one from what can be given out. There's a very limited list that needs to be done well. It is also said that access to data can be limited, and there I think we're going a dangerous way in which we start to say, "Yes, but the middle category.is, it's not a good web, it's about to close. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's make sure we don't have these things in here. [[The president calls.]] I have not been able to talk about anything like emergency contact and the protection of consumers this time, but I hope I have some questions about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u193	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this very interesting speech. I wish it was ten minutes, not two minutes. I'd like to ask about Seyster's fun and what it says here on a telecommunication line that goes to the sea. It says that seafarers are careful and careful, and it is said that they have a mile - in - a - quarter belt on either side of the telecommunications cord and ships forbid anchoring within the same distance from telecommunications cables, no fishing with nets, bottomposts, and the like. Of course, a minister is authorized to give an exception and such fineness. But I wonder, for it is now quite narrow: if we look at a fishery that now takes a draught of space and a sea cable on the other side, we will have a break. A senator calculated how much space is left to take part in this beautiful, precious feather?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u194	Madam President. I haven't calculated it myself, but the more experienced men in the sea have done it. There's two things. First of all, like a what? A senator showed, must be a certain distance from the strings. Then, too, there are rules on what a ship can do in close proximity to cods in the sea. Then there are calculations, I guess they don't exist, but there are rules for e.g. The Norwegian Coast Guard telling how much a cruise ship of a particular size needs each side or how much water is expected to push away from each side of it. And I'm told that if you add up these three numbers, you can first get into a wide area of everybody, on the bottom of the Southland. After the sheep are these three sizes: if they be put together, they are within the breadth of the distance. It is important that we think about these things in these areas because if the cable like Farice falls down, it is a question: Is it really on Netflix and other series for a relatively good time? It is not good if the security of these communication workers is not seriously cared for.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u195	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now's the time. A senator at night. A job committee, and I wondered, "Is this particular aspect being addressed to a professional network of fish in Sufjörður farms these days, not on that committee, but on the east, whether it would be out of the way that this particular feature would be covered by a professional committee, because we wouldn't take the sea cable, hardly. And we don't want a ship to stop sailing through the beach. A decision must then be made whether the beach is simply too tight in order to accommodate another fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u196	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the motion. Yes, this is something we could certainly watch on the job committee, and two of the three areas of the industry are involved, and even communication does the same. There we are talking about one of the veins into the country for tourists. This has been a wonderful building project in which more and more cruise vessels have been brought in. When I see people there during the week's election, it was found that there's a lot of growth now and it's just gonna be really nice to see Sufjörður live again after a two-year break for a pandemic. [[The president calls.]] So is the fish - fire, indeed, and the natural lifeline for all communications and innovations, which is the lightmaker. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u197	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for this fine, fast - reading speech. There was a lot of material that was tried to put there in five minutes. There are two things I want to talk to you about. A senator. First, it is a very late answer that I did not get the answer to my previous talk. A senator, but then I was going to ask him in, and I hope he forgives me, the effect of these increased wires on road and rural cell phones and how he values the changes in the bill. I have felt that this is an enormously important case, especially for the country, and I have been greatly irritated by the fact that the situation is as late as it really is because this improved status of communications in the country. Telecommunication companies are waiting for these rules to be introduced, but they are kept in doubt, and they are stalled. Each month that the case is held in the administration of the government is an additional month of unnecessary lack of mobile communication on the roads of the country. I wanted to ask you what. A senator's opinion of this and his evaluation of it. However, I wanted to ask. At the end of his discussion, I felt that it was welcome to ask a consumer about the interests of others and understood that there was something at the end of the talk that was not yet to be learned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u198	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. With regard to government services, it is simply a matter of security to have a wide service between the systems in these scattered parts of the country and on roads. Trying to build a cell phone signal from all the communications companies so that each part of the circuit, for example. or any other road if it's darker, it's not possible. There is no response to costs, and it is not a matter of putting up a gap between cell phones. 54. ... that I think it's possible for Ministers to set up a R.M.T.T.T.S.S.R.S.S.A.S.S.A. The duty, if I have been able to read this correctly, the communications companies to work together in certain places. I have been around the world and have seen many communication systems where this has been done. Next, a better distribution, a better use, and we have even begun to see special parties run the systems and, in effect, offer cell phones the service of having a tower somewhere. With consumers, I would have liked to go deeper into it, but time is running out. What I really wanted to talk about is that we have to think about what service we're doing to the consumers and also what protection we're protecting them in terms of how we feel about their safety and how we care for their services. That's where we really have to weigh things down, and I hope that's what we're doing. It is done by a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u199	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I think this is the very balance that we need to try to find in the Committee with the articles of the bill that call for a thought - provoking opinion. There are a few things that call for a thought - provoking opinion, but there are not too many, so I am very optimistic that this case can be worked fast and well and finally finish. I just can't believe that they will suffer the same terrible fate that it has happened here during the last council, as has been declared repeatedly today. I'd like a later question. A senator will see that he feels that there is something to be added in this increased transparency in the production of accounts, and so on, for the customers of telecommunications companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u200	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I agree absolutely, I don't think there's anything important in this bill that can't be fixed on the committee's coverage and finding this gold just the way we talked about, I don't think it's important. I've been through some of the articles that I think have to flaunt and look into, and I hope that this will help the committee at work. For the transparency, accounts and 74. gr., I find it missing more descriptions that there's been abduction of the cost team and really seeing what it costs and that people realize about it that it's not, as mentioned earlier, paying extra for something double, or finding out where this cost comes in. [[The president calls.]] This really helped in the United States when this was done for consumers, and I hope so too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u201	Madam President. Thank you. In a short period of time, a man in a very meaningful speech. I'd like to do the highest. Minister after opinion of what it is in this bill, which specifically encourages innovation in the telecommunications market. I ask because of what. A senator has experience and knowledge in this field and because the bill has a considerable discussion of the purpose of the bill. and especially to promote innovation. I admit, I've certainly missed every branch, but I can't figure out exactly what it's supposed to be. What's that in this bill? And I'm just asking of you because it's extremely important that we here in Iceland are not left behind in the development and innovation of this complex field and that we are able to be in the lead and control some of our own fates, as it were, except for the opportunities that exist among the best nations. I'm asking because there's so much talk about this as one of the main goals, but I don't know what it is about the language that is designed to contribute to our becoming one of the leading nations of the new worlds in a telecommunication market. I'd be interested to hear thoughts at night. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u202	Madam President. I agree with what. Senator. It's hard to find direct connections to innovation, i.e. that this is especially involved. However, there is a way of communication that it is fundamental to opening many things. We can reason that when it arrived at the time, the electricity created a lot of innovation, and in the same way, it gives us a safer, faster, rougher, and inexpensive telecommunications to create solutions that we could not before make. But to do so, we need access to communication. I can only take an example from my past when working in Africa, where telecommunications were shorter than e.g. Here, when they started using the phone to send money between them. It was 2005 or 2006 that in order to do business with banks in a country where 95% of the people did not have a bank account, it opened up to innovation that we did not have access to before. That's how the innovations happen, once you bring shallow wood, you'll see a lot of new opportunities. I think by setting good rules around it it happens--I know that Mrs. President is busy trying to update something, so I'm over to the hour.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u203	Madam President. It's unusual to see what's happening. A senator be first before the bell, but thank you very much. A senator for the answer. Well, it's very clear that we need this frame to make good use of this technology. I don't know what else to consider in this particular case. We've talked about the interaction between competition and other surveillance agencies, whether it's a post-and telecommunications agency or a Contestation Centre. I thought about it because you see in the reviews of the main stakeholders of employment, both businesses that are operating in the fields and in an established business and big, and then these sceptical companies and innovations, avoiding their concern that the rule is too limited to them. I'd like to ask myself, " Do you know what I'm saying? ' A senator's concern is that we have the order set in order to ensure safety and other such things as the putting of the innovation too much? Is this something to worry about, considering why? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29.u204	Madam President. I wanted to point it out. A senator and all of them whiskers. Congress says that the post office and communications agency changed into a telecommunications agency a few years ago. Postals are no longer under this hat. Question question. In some respects, a senator was about the order. As I mentioned in the previous talk, the rule is in relation to a somewhat larger market area than Iceland and that's why we need to be careful to take that ballin' between the chain of action and the fact that we have a company. I think we have to have rules because if we don't have a rule around it that's strong and good, we'll just get in the same way we've seen in other ways, there'll be consultations and consumers suffer for it.
