ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u1	A letter has been received by the President from the Environment, Energy, and Climate Secretary where requested deadlines to provide a written answer to a covering query. 456, on the arrival of young people to decision-making and policy, from the daughter of Eva Dögg Davíðsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the minister of culture and trade, as well as the secretary of food, where there is a request for every appointment to provide written answers to inquiries. 485 and a crew. 484, both dealing with the price of interest and their registration, from the Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u2	A respectable president. To 58th. According to Congress, for up to half an hour in advance of a fixed conference, usually twice every week, the president can authorize members of Congress to present oral requests to a minister without any notice. Prime Minister shall be before the time. 12 noon before Friday, the president announces which ministers in general, no less than three, will be responding next week at the council meetings. A respectable president. We've already discussed the absence of ministers here at the Assembly Hall, but now it's so clear that there's world-historic events going on that for all the people of the earth, but also in many ways the public in Iceland. Tomorrow's program so that only two of the 12 councilmen in Iceland's government will trust themselves to attend an unprepared question period. In such times, it is surprising that there is no more trust in coming here to answer the members of the council and their questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u3	In fact, the president was not aware that such a loss had occurred in the Ministry about tomorrow, but the president will consider whether it can be fixed so that there will be no less than three who will be counter-represented tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u4	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for calling attention to this and for drawing the highest attention. That's what seems to have responded well to this request, and that's fine. On the other hand, I would like to justify the possibility that there may also be a basis for increasing the opportunity of diplomacy to make unprepared inquiries. These rules were set up when there were considerably fewer classes in the assembly today. And in fact, it might be quite possible to increase the number of queries that may be presented to a minister because there is certainly much to ask and many to consider. This part of the program is made up of the most important members of this council hall, where the government therefore, and, yes, sometimes, directors, will be given the opportunity to provide the European Commission with active support for their work. As a result, I also direct to the president to consider whether to add unprepared queries and to ensure better care than three Ministers of 12.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u5	Mr. President. This may be repeated material. So I looked up and on January 20 we had a comparable conversation with the president because only two ministers had made their announcement in unprepared inquiry the next day. At that point, the president had previously seen this and consulted the Council for a better approach to the human program than he had received from the prime minister. [[Top of the list: everybody with Covid.]] I'm just going to say the same thing I said on January 20, that we in the state of government, certainly all as one, are with a president in order to meet here in the Senate to answer the questions of members of Congress as they are supposed to be, and if the prime minister responds to the request of the president this time as she did on January 20, we are with the President and the General of the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u6	The president wants to say that he does not view prime minister as having reacted badly to the challenge that took place on January 20th, but circumstances were in a way that could not be pressured by the president to increase the number of stewards in unsupervised queries. There are some differences.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u7	Madam President. I'd like to add a little bit of a lawsuit. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdóttir. Not only are there more groups, but there are other ministers. As a result, there may be quite a number of ministers in unprepared requests, but many do not have questions because the depth of this program is now very small with many groups that may initially be interested in talking about the most important issues involved in the popular talk each time. However, in the past there were fewer ministers and fewer categories, the second and even the third inquirys from the same category to the second minister's specific depth in the discussion. I feel that this depth is lacking in the discussion and, in addition, the depth of the question being answered by ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u8	A respectable president. I agree with the ones before. I came up here last time, too. I think this is just because the government's short-term memory is so small, it's so short since it was last. But perhaps the key point is that at the same time as stewards, the number of those who want to come is reduced. Don't you just have to reduce the number of advisers, and more ministers will come back?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u9	A respectable president. I'm going to make a subject of my interview I listened to this morning when a woman who lived in the country, expressed her feelings and concerns, and her family for her child, who has a really great deal of trouble, spiritual difficulties, has been struggling, has committed a lot of self - damage, and the Icelandic system is no longer working. We have here a child - care minister, a respectable president who, in effect, threw up the advance squad to the clouds in the final campaign for promoting the human race, investing in human resources, and being a child - care minister who was going to make everything possible for our children. But here's the whole difference depending on whether you live in the country or not. Even if the parents return repeatedly to Reykjavík in an emergency hospital for a child with this self - injury, the child's distress will never go on. This family now has no alternative to going to the Netherlands, because there are options there. To save a little 13 - year - old boy from self - injury, they must go to Holland to get adequate help. It's Iceland today. A respectable president. I condemn health systems that do not embrace all the people who need it, much less when the need is as urgent as it is, as shown, when the interview with the grieving mother I listened to in Bitina this morning, and I encourage all of you to listen to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u10	President. My mind is completely in Ukraine, but unfortunately, whether we want to care for the world or the rest, we have other jobs to do. We now have a sale going on in Iceland Bank, continued sales in Iceland Bank. At a meeting this morning at the branch office, Gylfi Magnússon, Jón Þór Sturluson, and Jón Daníelsson mentioned a number of things that were worthy of consideration, and particularly regarding the questions I had about the earlier sale, as to what would be a normal arrangement for such an initial discharge. There's something important to keep this in mind and understand. It's only natural that it's on a tiny subversive when you're being sold. The object of what is to be sold, e.g. Like Iceland Bank, the value of property is growing as a result. That's a defined goal. It's deliberately trying to keep it that way. You ask how normal it is, i.e. before you start scratching your head over the increase. If I was, for example. To sell my car and sell it at a million - he's actually a total slut and would never sell at that price - and somebody would buy it at a million and sell it right back at 1.6 million, I wouldn't think: I messed up, I could have sold my car at a much higher price? So that's exactly what it's like with Iceland Bank sales. He's at 60% higher than he was when he was sold. Advisor who came to a budget and discussed this, we may have raised a 10%, and everyone would be happy, both buyers and traders. Not a 60% increase. Then we, the government fund, share with all of us here, are literally giving this property to others.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u11	A respectable president. Iceland has not been affected by the effects of the crown virus epidemic on the nation and its economy. So it was a lack of hope in our eyes when all limitations in communication were removed and life was moving toward normal. We were optimistic about attacking imported inflation, which had set the cost of manufacturing beyond all control and harming the survival of homes. At the same time as energy prices have increased worldwide, and our neighboring countries are fighting high energy and production costs, Iceland is living at a constant cost of energy. Iceland's unique position is easy to take for granted, and little notice of how rich we are from natural resources, but in recent years it is mainly the natural nature of Iceland that sustains the economy and the community as a whole. A respectable president. The relief of Covid was transient. It was a war. The consequences of Covid-19 and the war in Ukraine on the world's economy will become an important reminder of our situation, the importance of Icelandic agriculture and natural resources, and the need for sustainable Iceland in these areas. We saw in the Covid epidemic that we can't always rely on other nations with all our needs. It is anticipated that the Ukraine war will have an enormous impact on the worldwide cost of energy. Fast energy exchange has never been more important than right now. So, in view of present world conditions, putting energy change first in Iceland's priorities is a top priority. A respectable president. We have not before faced the obvious advantage of using our resources to create jobs and produce valuables as the basis of our country's well - being. As soon as we're with our allies and strengthen business around the world, it's never been more important to protect the sustainability of domestic food and energy production. Intensification of energy, food and food security and control over our resources will always result in independence.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u12	A respectable president. We have seen a very beautiful conspiracy with the Ukrainian citizens outside the Russian embassies. We've watched with a certain amount of admiration, at least The one standing here, how Protestants in Russia object to the Ukraine War despite certain arrests for expressing their views, for protesting. However, suppose those Protestants standing in front of the Russian embassy had been instructed by police to move away, deliver objections elsewhere, they were in the way, the Russian ambassador would feel uncomfortable and he wanted them to just leave. And when Protestants would not have responded well, i.e. If it hadn't been for a while, the police would have arrested all those Protestants for not obeying the police command to leave so well and stop interrupting the Russian ambassador. It's possible in Iceland today. In fact, this has been experienced in front of another petition in two places. However, it was not the Russian embassy but the U.S., where one man stood with a sign and protested the war effort of the United States. He was asked to move despite causing no trouble except perhaps some visual concern for the U.S. ambassador. And when he did not move, they were arrested and finally convicted that they had not obeyed the orders of the police to move. This has happened twice recently in Iceland. This is the problem with 19. Police law. He violates people's rights for peaceful protests. I'm in the process of dealing with the situation, and I'm telling everyone what's going on. Senators to ensure that we continue to protest in front of the embassy without any interference from the police. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u13	A respectable president. During my first talk in this talk, I called attention to the long, unpredictable waiting time of passing by after sexual correction. That discussion was followed by a written request for a written answer to the highest degree. Secretary of health. Last week, the answer to that inquiry came, and thank you very much. Minister for. They shed even more light on the problem, but according to the minister's response, the average waiting period for those on the waiting list for a larger sex correction procedure is 16 months. The last question of the inquiry was in these ways, with the permission of the president: Is the priority of the sexual correction action that makes it clear that they are essential to those they need? The question points directly to the verbal talk of a worldwide interest organization that has repeated public declarations of the profound distress that results in unexpected waiting time, and the risk of self - injury and even suicide during this delicate period of waiting for an operation. The minister's answer to this question says, with the permission of a president: All action is deemed necessary. National Hospital requests, including those related to sexual correction, are subject to repeated reviews. Operational plans are planned, but since the National Hospital is an emergency hospital, it can be organized for urgent action as a matter takes priority. I admit that the answer is not what I had hoped for, and I want to use this field to underscore the seriousness of the situation. We must respond to the caller's transmission, which defines sexual corrections as vital. The expression "usual talk " about us without us is often used in the context of any kind of conflict. Decisions relating to a peripheral population, such as this one, should take into account the experienced experience in that group. I don't feel that way. I don't think that's what this is all about. I still hope that this will be changed and that the priorities of sexual corrections will be reviewed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u14	A respectable president. First, I have to talk about the tragic unprovoked Russian invasion of Ukraine. My mind and my heart are with the people in Ukraine. We all have a heavy cloud. My speech in this subject turns to something else. Every 1 0 years old, an Icelander does not have a job or a school education. The percentage of foreign youths here out of school and from secular work is still higher, or about 13.5%. Reports of young people's positions in Iceland show how serious this situation is. The percentage of young people who are not in school or at work has increased in recent years according to the Habitat data. What is involved in learning is also more striking: 31% boys and 22% girls drop from high school, and among immigrants, the percentage is 62%. Mr. President. What Is the Cause? Because of circumstances in the labour market, some 6,400 people in the unemployment registry last year had only completed primary school education or a comparable education. Nearly one third of the service recipients in their 30's are active and 35% have completed primary school tests. To avoid active management, the first step must be taken over the threshold of seeking medical advice and receiving a request for rehabilitation, a step that is insurmountable to many. The government should respond. All studies show that the longer people are from the workforce and are less active, the harder it is to get back in. If left unchecked, the community will go to great expense for everything and a lot of harm to the individual. A respectable president. The future lies ahead. It is not just a matter of saying that young people are the future; they need action. Now we've got to jump into education.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u15	A respectable president. I have no faith that the Russian public agrees with the government's war effort in Ukraine. In this country, people who come from Russia and Ukraine live, some I know personally, and the situation is a very burdensome situation. It is natural for such people to feel anxious. My condemnation to the invasion of Russia's governments focuses primarily on the governments in that country, and I do not fully understand how the interests of the people in Russia can work together with the disasters that now strike Ukrainian innocent citizens. Me and the Icelanders have been cooperating with Russia in various ways over the years. The changed picture is likely to have a negative impact on such cooperation, even for years. Nothing called for an invasion in Ukraine except the desire of that nation for democracy, freedom, and human rights. The number of people in Ukraine who now choose to flee the country increases with each passing day. Their immediate position is now open. A respectable president. My home town, Smokeytown, has been working with the government for a long time to escape, and I would like to strongly encourage other rural areas in the country to declare their will to receive people in distress. The rural communities are strong and tightly wrapped around their inhabitants and are giving a powerful service in the vicinity of the environment. A respectable president. I challenge every elected representative in the countryside all over the country: let's open our arms, let's give cover, because it's time for all the corporations in the country to ascend and come to safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u16	A respectable president. A total military attack by Pútín and his followers in Ukraine is a threat to peace and stability throughout Europe. To invade a free and sovereign state is a threat to our global picture and a clear violation of international law. Our mind is with the Ukrainian nation who suffer horrible and vicious bombings from Russia's troops. The unfounded attacks of Pútín, resulting in casualties and injuries among citizens and the flight of huge numbers of people, show that Russia's governments have no respect for human life and the right to freedom and democracy. The Russian army is on the move to take over Kiev, the capital of Ukraine. The devotion and persistence of the Ukrainian nation are admirable, but unfortunately, within a few days or hours, the city is likely to be massacred alone. The only practical way to protect Ukraine is to isolate Pútín and turn his supporters away. That soldiers of the Russian military realized that they are fighting their brothers and sisters, innocent people who have nothing to do with protecting their country's independence, and therefore the soldiers lay down their weapons. The voice of all who advocate human rights, peace, and international law is respected and our stand is the only way to achieve it. I'm on Ukraine. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u17	A respectable president. As for others, my mind is at Ukraine, both for the millions of people living under difficult circumstances in Ukraine, many of them hiding in basements, from bombs, and even from children in a subway tunnel, and for the millions who have already fled the country, the millions who are trying to escape the country. Running away is something that gets us to know what it's like. Taking along nothing but your child and medicine. Those of us who have worked with refugees are experiencing unprecedented distress. 220 billion is what the United Nations has requested for support only to start the disaster work, $22 billion. It is important that we Icelanders as active members of the international community respond quickly and decisively. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister of State for immediately giving 1 million euro to these matters. It's a good start, but now it's time for all of us, the government, the general, the public, the business and society, to act toward it not only in word but also on table and show that we support the people in Ukraine, or, as they themselves say, by permission of the President: Slava Ukraini.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u18	V.E.G. President. War is a horror that breaks the foundation of a person's existence. It destroys, destroys, and mutilates, drives civilians into flight, destroys youth, and all dreams of peace and prosperity. This is true of war, whether in Afghanistan, Yemen, Syria, or Ukraine. But now the war is home. It's at our threshold because we live in Europe and we sense and experience it so much more powerful than we do with the wars that are on other continents. Therefore, there is a very human, understandable reason, but let us try to understand that no matter where it happens, war is horrible. Russia's invasion in Ukraine marks a turning point in Europe's history since the second world war. We're in a hurry. Happily, there has now been a confederacy of unprecedented embargos against Russia, against people in the highest places and inconsistency, for they certainly need to be reached. We have to ask ourselves, " Is it enough because Pútín is not without friends? ' China's empire is on the yellow button, as it says, when it comes to Pútín, and from there he will get his way in times of trial. Economic pressures must bite, and we living in the voluntary states of Western Europe also need to realize that we need to pay the cost of the economic measures because they will directly affect our terms; commerce, inflation and economic environment. We might as well start thinking about it right away and get up and not be there in six months or so - hopefully the war will be over long ago - that we must start to feel the need to take these measures. It's time to get up. Now the big words have to be kept. [[The president calls.]] We need to prepare for this war for a long time, and we have to resist it for a very long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u19	A respectable president. The Russian Army's missile attack on a monument to the massacre in the Holocaust is a shocking attack, for the Russian people should certainly keep in and remember the Holocaust and what happened there. We must not let history repeat itself and must remember that war with related violence will not solve anything. War and violence, therefore, are the worst in dealing with those who should least, children, disabled and sick people, leaving behind only misery and destruction. But there are various forms of violence. The result is usually physical and spiritual harm to those to whom it should be least. Economic violence causes mental and physical damage, and those affected may suffer irreparable losses. What is the result for a family in which many who cannot afford to do so are in need of life - sustaining drugs? Yes, it can cause irreparable physical and spiritual harm to family members, even in a position to choose between who is and who is not. What results when people do not have food for days each week or each month or for years? Yes, their physical and mental health will deteriorate and will cause irreparable damage to them and to society. It is a small group that is in such a situation, repeatedly telling governments. But why don't they do anything about it? Not at the expense of stopping the government from making this work, since these are so few. Or is that why they don't want to do anything? Or is there another reason? That's what the board of directors say. Will their spiritual and physical harm be the worst in this miserable situation continue throughout the terms of the term?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u20	Mr. President. I come here for a meeting held by the Central Party by two Ukrainian women who have lived here for some time, one for 20 years, and a teacher in the Hafnarfjörður. These were Tanya and Valeria, who described the situation in Ukraine and the position of their relatives and friends in that country. Of course, it is always especially emotional when you hear stories directly from people who experience things or through them. They informed us that the Ukrainians in this country and Ukrainians will stay together and will now open the group to the Icelanders who are interested in taking part and helping Ukraine. There is also a group of people called Iceland for Ukraine, and they also serve as members of the United States. out of Facebook page. I encourage people to study this job and put themselves in touch with these people, for they remember amazingly much about getting into direct contact with people who are going through such difficulties, both for us, to get to know what's going on there, but also for people to sense, you have, you have, you know, personal support. There are various ways that Iceland can go, both through relief groups and through these groups, to support individuals in Ukraine. I wanted to encourage them. Senators and others who are expected to study these groups, Iceland for Ukraine and Ukraine, who are now planning to open the group to Iceland, who are interested in further research and assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u21	Mr. President. During discussions at the council, I have sensed an important and broad solidarity among elected representatives of unequivocal support for the Ukraine government and complete rejection of the age that the Russian government has offered us. During recent times, the realm of international politics has made unprecedented changes in its speed of terror. The war in Ukraine is not a civil war. It is an external attack by another nation, a nation that is inconceived, a nation on the northern border, as well as on Iceland's airspace, and has gone so far as to try to claim the North Pole. The clear attitude of Iceland in the community of free democratic nations has never been more important than we must learn to be Iceland in NATO is and will be a key factor in the international defence policies to be used, at any given time, by the North Sea. It should be noted, however, that the most important stage for a nation that feels like peace to be maintained above all is the European Union. Never has Europe's cooperation proved its value to its neighbors, who are now threatened. A respectable president. Sadly, the saying, if you live in interesting times, you have become more experienced for a person who has lived only a period of peace. However, it is not enough for a government and a council to agree on the importance of peace but also the ways we want to achieve and maintain it. As a liberal contender, I consider it unrealistic and undesirable to try to catch him in a way other than the European democratic nations in the European Union, but it should be held in place that a seated government is out of my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u22	Mr. President. Power - sick, reality - minded political leaders are dangerously innocent people, they are dangerous to the world. We are under obligation to respond fully to protect citizens of Ukraine and to protect Western values about democracy, human rights, and freedom. Forced operations are designed to reverse the interests of those who consider war to be the only way to achieve their aims and simply to bring about significant economic damage. Forced actions of this magnitude have not been applied to this effect because of lack of will and fear of domestic consequences. There is no escape, no economic pressure, as it is now said, if they should stop President Pútín of Russia, that it will have consequences for citizens of general population. And not just in Russia. In the internationalized world, national interests are interwoven. Free communication between nations has been the basis for prosperity and economic development in recent decades. If we let Pútín destroy that trend, it will cost us much in the long run. The question is, What is an acceptable cost to maintain this worldwide network of free communication built up after World War II? What can be the cost of business and home in the Western world, and what is the short - term cost to the risk of allowing Pútín to undermine the Western values of human rights, freedom, and democracy? This is a key to the nations of the world, but this is especially a key to Iceland, all of which depend on international law and national boundaries being secure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u23	Mr. President. Russia's war against Ukraine is a war against Europe. The ruler and dictator Pútín lie to their own people and to the international community. It must never succeed in breaking up the Western spirit. The international economy against the Russians has to be very aggressive. That's no good for mittens. A military power that invades Europe's independent and sovereign states, thereby threatening peace in the entire continent, is an army that no one can trust. Next, it could be Poland or Finland. The Ukraine war shows the importance of NATO and proves its purpose as a defense alliance. Now as never before, Iceland must fulfill its commitments to NATO and make sure that there is always the situation here for defense mechanisms that could make a big difference to us at the crucial moment. Let us not forget that the Russians were recently engaged in military exercises off the coasts of Ireland in an unscrupulous Irish country. There is no way to see how events will take place in Ukraine for the next few days. However, there is a great likelihood that soon there will be a crucial moment. The beginning of the U.S.A.'s death as a free and sovereign state might be nearing its end. The free Western world can never be accepted. The events in Ukraine will not be stopped with words. Words must follow, to provide Ukraine with a rush into the European Union. The application should not be placed in a drawer. At a crucial moment when Europe's future is at stake, there must be no hesitation. The people in Russia don't want war. I really hope that the Russian public will rise against the government of the Kremlin and the days of the Putin government will soon be no more.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u24	A respectable president. On the website of the Foreign Institute of Iceland continued until the end of the last September, with the permission of a president: A General Assembly is authorized to legalize an Icelandic citizen. If the applicant does not fill the requirements set for the granting of the Icelandic citizen's rights in the law No. 100/1952 he may request that his application be submitted to the General. Popular applications are submitted to the General Assembly twice a year, in the spring months, and in December. There is an application deadline for the spring council, and on March 1 and before the fall council until and on October 1 year. Today is March 2nd. This announcement has been made of the website of the Foreign Institute without any consultation with the council, as it has become famous. I'd like to ask the highest. The president whether or not aims in his attempts to secure that government will show the respect it deserves by the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u25	The president wants to know that, based on the President's information, there has been some development in these matters, that the General Commission has been treated for discussion, of course, but the president continues to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u26	A respectable president. The U.S. National Institute of Foreign Affairs, the U.S.A. Minister of Justice, has adopted it by herself to change the procedure that the Council oversees how weak the council is to the Commission. The fact that we came up here in the middle of a few times to wait to the highest level. President to ensure that the Foreign Institute will fulfill its legal duties to the council and that we will be restored no more than that the President continues to monitor the development of events, as if this is some natural phenomenon that we follow from the distance, only shows how weak the council is to the Commission. It needs to be changed, topv. President. I'm calling for President to be with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u27	A respectable president. I would very much like to agree with the words of the two senators who spoke before me. I understand there's no record of what will happen with the Civil Rights applications received after October 1. It's not just ignominious, it's a disgrace and it's serious before the council. We want us to be taken seriously, and we need the support of the council president in order to do so. I don't know better than that all council members agree to this wish except one board of directors, so I want to encourage the highest power. That's what I'm talking about. There are many things under here, not just respect, but respect for individuals who need proper answers, to see that we are human and humanitarian about the individuals who are applying for the Icelandic citizenship. We must follow our environment, our rules, etc. Then the council must be able to carry out its duty in its own time. I want to say something about the highest. President, encourage him. We need your support.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u28	A respectable president. Just to inform you about the situation, she's the same one she was here in January. It is thus that the National Institute of Foreign Affairs refuses to hand over to the council the information necessary to do its work and, in addition, deny the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland, under the order of the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, performing according to a procedure agreed by the General for the release of these applications. The situation today is that people who are going to apply for the council don't know if they're supposed to, they don't know when to do it, they don't know what to do about the application. I am repeatedly asked if the council will receive the application if people apply to the council. This is not because the committee has decided to review the procedure. The committee has decided to review the arrangement and until the revision is completed applies to the arrangement established by the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u29	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here because I think we all see that it can't work so that the senators are in a position today to come up here to the conference board and ask for the order and regulations of the Council to be respected, that the council is in the position that it can't do their jobs, that members of Congress are in this position to ask for the members of the Parliament to do what? Work hard, getting data to do your job according to the rules here. I would have thought, because I know that the treatment period is a very favorite word for the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice, that his second greatest word is efficiency. How can it be a good use at the council's time, a good use at the time of the Foreign Institute, or the Minister himself, that we are in this clot every day?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u30	Mr. President. Now I have to come up here and protest this case. This is where councilmen come up and do unfounded letters and say here in no uncertain terms that the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland refuse to deliver data. We've had data. Hv. A senator knows that. We were meeting here this morning, reviewing applications, reviewing reviews from the Foreign Institute. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Councilmen say the Agency refuses to provide evidence to the council. It's just bullshit, it's just bullshit. I don't understand what's in it. Congress coming up here again and repeating the same nonsense. This work is started, it will be completed this month in March, at which time members of the Committee, the Subcommittee, will be granted their citizenship on a bill here. So there's nothing wrong with this work now, and I'm just asking the senators to stick to the truth on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u31	Mr. President. This matter is about it and has been about it, as I have understood all along, that it is a minister who decides to change the order of the Generals, and that we senators cannot accept, and the General Assembly of Iceland is not to be accepted. Ministers in the government are represented by the Generals. It's not the other way around. We must never accept the fact that only a minister can take over the council itself. So we must protest until the ultimate. Ministers and the highest. The government has figured out the difference between the legislature and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u32	Mr. President. Here we go. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson, he speaks of people being false. Maybe he could've told the whole story. We're sure there's evidence now, but we've had to cut this out of the Bureau by shuffling, and it's obvious that the order of the minister is being made. [[Up front.]] The last time we were in the conference on this case, I talked about that when one case and another case and the third thing comes out of the same way that has no meaning but to go against the right people that come here, there are not three individual cases, but they are drawing up patterns. It is clear to the Committee that the Independence Party is isolated. There's a lot of Congress that we're keeping this practice in right now, and we're gonna need to get our hands on it because application deadlines for us I think have passed yesterday or the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u33	Mr. President. Civil Rights is the foundation of society, without the people, no Iceland. In fact, giving people citizenship is the first thing the government has to do to become. Now I don't remember the constitution for words, but if I remember correctly, something is about to happen to a foreigner to be granted only to an Icelandic citizen's right of law. However, it was decided at some point for efficiency that the people who might be the easiest to obtain citizenship, because they met all legal requirements, could be handed over to an institution. It's the administrative office that's killing all over the Foreign Institute all year. However, the individuals who may not have identification are left standing because they were caught in some bombing in Syria, who did not meet the requirement to have refused to accept the development of a unit because they came here to flee from the same war, so we need this way through the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If it's true. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, proves to be correct, and the council reaches the end of this in March, which is 25 years later than these people had required, a quarter of them waiting for basic rights is something we would not offer to any person who is listed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] No, they're fugitives from the Middle East...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u34	The president has to draw attention to him. A senator saw that his speech had long passed, and the president had repeatedly indicated that the session had passed. The president will have to give public speakers the time of the council, but members of Congress will not be able to double that time even if they do not stop speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u35	... come and take over the Foreign Institute?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u36	The president asks members of the council to guard their words from both the platform and the march of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u37	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson came up here and spoke of the source of evidence from the Foreign Institute of Iceland. That's only part of it. A foreign agency has provided data, about 30 applications of 170. Now I've been on this Subcommittee more than once, and more than twice, and it's always been the task of getting all comments at the same time so that we can do them over in a few weeks. It has been then said that the Foreign Institute will come later and later with these data, later and later to the council, but it should be done, making it harder, and harder to win the applications. Now it's time for them to pretend they're giving them to us by their own means. It is the council that dictates this process, it is not a Foreign Institute. A General legislature, a legislature, allows such unworking that eventually loss of self - respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u38	Mr. President. There has been great agreement here at the General Assembly and in the Western world regarding the condemnation of Russia's invasion in Ukraine. But it is important to discuss how and how we will respond to the war and its consequences, even the long - term changing world scene. The first step must be to provide as much relief as possible, to send it directly to Ukraine, and to react to the vast flow of refugees. But you're right. In part, a minister of justice has pointed out that the refugee system here and, in many areas, does not function as it should, a system designed after World War II to cope with temporary wars and consequences, especially in neighboring lands, and has not adapted to the changing world in the 21st century. As we look forward to the largest number of refugees in Europe since the end of World War II, this calls for a rapid and decisive reaction. We need to welcome refugees in Iceland, but we also need to assist in neighboring Ukraine, the lands in which people from that country are looking to a great extent. Today, some 350,000 refugees have crossed the border to Poland. You can imagine whether it is difficult to accept a number of people who represent the entire nation in a few days. Therefore, the Icelandic government should consider providing direct strength to these countries for the development of housing and other needs. The cost of renting or buying an apartment in Poland is one quarter or one third of what it is in Iceland, and with such support the government can offer a great deal of support. Governments also need to talk clearly about participation in Western defences, sending a clear message. It is not enough to refer to the vague terms of a government covenant. We need to know how the government will respond to the predictable request of NATO for greater activity in this country and the other measures that follow this modified world scene, which we now look forward to and would be good if a minister were to be firmly aware of it. It would also be nice to hear the highest food. A minister of what additional measures are necessary in the field of Internet protection and other technical defenses. We also need to focus on energy. Last night, the president of the United States declared that the local government would release a large supply of oil to cope with the situation. But we need to be better enough about energy here in the West and there in Iceland too. Today, the University of Helsinki reported that the Russian government had spent ninety - five million dollars to strengthen an organization that combats the production of gas and oil in Europe. It is important that the council be informed and participate in discussions about operations taken by the invasion, but the major measures have been met. You might wonder, " Is it really right to shut down the Russian press? ' I'm inclined to believe that it would be better for us in the West to say that here we allow free discussion, including confusion, while in Russia, we're shutting down certain media. I think we can trust our citizens to appreciate what is right and what is wrong. We are to protect our freedom, for what citizens of Ukraine are now doing is to defend our freedom, defend the right of the nations to have their own borders, and control ourselves, and we need to do so here in the West as well. We need to remember what brought us the results we have obtained and to be ready to defend it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u39	Mr. President. It is difficult to step into a pita and address the Allied Council with such a serious cause as it is now when a bloody invasion war has begun in Europe. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is unprovable, illegal, and cruel. War action directed by Vladimír Pútín is a clear, gross violation of international law and unscrupulous rituals. Russia's war effort has brought untold woes to innocent citizens in Ukraine and is the most serious threat to peace and security in Europe for decades. The small reasons the Russians have given for their invasion have no real support. The real root of war can be light for all. For the President of Russia, nothing more than to undermine the values we value; freedom, self - determination, democracy, and human rights. There is no threat to him by free Ukrainians. It is not a threat to its defense of the Union of the Atlantic Union. It is threatened because more people are free and democracy is widely recognized and human rights are respected. The severity of the situation is reflected in the response of the international community. Peace - loving nations have no choice but to respond firmly. The world's governments have already undergone a more intense forced action against the attacker, an example in later times. The support of the United States government to Ukraine is unequivocal and firm. There is a full unity within the government and at the General Assembly, and I love it not just as a foreign minister but as a civilian. At the same time, in our reactions, we have been united by friends and alliances. Iceland is fully involved in extensive forced labor operations toward Russia and we will do everything we can to answer the Ukrainian nation's plea for help. As soon as they heard of the invasion, we decided to give them 150 million. K. for humanitarian assistance to Ukraine, which divides equally between the International Council of the Red Cross, the Ukraine Fund of the United Nations Language Organization and the United Nations Refugee Organization. We'll give another 150 million here. K. a donation that will be made clear in each of the next few days how it will be most useful to care for basic needs of people. I can say with what. A senator may need to be able to listen for where the need is most, and since pressure is intense on certain borders, it may need to be a priority to help people there. Decisions for further support will be taken into account as events unfold, and we will not only receive people who come here but help in a way that enables us to where the need is most. We will help to cope with the emergency of the invasion, including the hosting of refugees. As an armyless nation, we Icelanders are often added to the fact that we are peace lovers, and we certainly are finer. In fact, though, ordinary people in all lands are also peace lovers, hating wars, and especially in lands that cannot choose the luxury of being without military help. We may be grateful for our lack of warfare, but we should not brag about it. You see, Iceland also trusts in military strength when it comes to our efforts to ensure our peace and security. The Ukrainian people have been eager to ask the world to supply munitions and other devices that can help to protect themselves from the Russian offensive. Most of our neighboring nations have decided to supply Ukraine with weapons and defenses, even nations that so far have not brought up such assistance. Sweden is doing this for the first time in 83 years. The European Union, which is made of peace, is doing so. The Germans are doing it. Most nations are doing so. As an warless country, we simply cannot supply military data or other specialized defenses, but we have responded to the Ukrainian national call for support in the supply transport process by providing a cargo plane. We have supported the plan of the Atlantic Community and Ukraine on the development of expert expertise in the field of safety and protection. I'd like to emphasize that the measures involved here are totally aimed at supporting the protection and sovereignty of Ukraine. Like what? A senator mentioned the Ukrainian people fighting for freedom and not only for their freedom but also for our freedom. The situation is disturbing. We are taking a clear position among Western democratic nations. [[The president calls.]] We hope for peaceful solutions in general in the issues and issues, and we want respect for international law and human rights. [[The president calls.]] National security policy because of what it is. A senator asked, was very clear about our involvement in the Atlantic Alliance, and we follow through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u40	Mr. President. Pútín's invasion is a clear violation of international law and has changed our world picture in a few days, perhaps for a long time. It was necessary to act quickly, but at the same time, it is clear that in some way our reality will be changed here too. The government must now be thinking of reviewing the national security policy. Of course, much resistance to Ukraine has attracted the world's attention. However, just a few days ago, most experts agreed that the Russians would hardly apply themselves in the way they are now aware, but now it seems to agree that there is an enormous danger and vague trend, and not just for the Ukrainians, but for all in our part of the world. The Russians have, for example. The threat of Finnum and Sweden to use political, even military, reactions if they dare to enter NATO and even threatened under a rose to use nuclear weapons. The EU Parliamentary Conference and NATO countries on the protection and safety issues we attended for the weekend were properly prepared for these events. On the contrary, it was amazing to find that the harmony across the nations, contrary to political views, that this would not be over. It's good to find the solidarity of the council. Iceland has taken a clear stand, and I'm glad to be at the top. The minister of foreign affairs and prime minister have shown the tremendous support of our fellow nations. But it's indentating a lot of things. We have contributed relatively less to humanitarian affairs than the rest of the North countries and more of our efforts in humanitarian matters and refugees are still too uncertain. But it is important that we do our part because for a small nation it is of utmost importance that independence, self - determination, and national boundaries are respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u41	A respectable president. I would like to thank the advisor and secretary of state for the necessary discussion, especially in the light of the European security situation. Here was a reference to the government covenant, and with the permission of the President, I would like to read that the U.S. government stresses that the national security issues are consistent with the national security policy target for Iceland adopted by the General Assembly. If I recall correctly, Mr. President, she was approved 2016, I believe. It shows that there will be a review of national security policy during the first part of the terms of the season, and we must all agree that such work needs to be performed in the light of circumstances. The principles behind national security policy are based on the fact that Iceland is a small nation without authority or will to have an army but ensures its safety and defends by active cooperation with other countries and international institutions. You might say, Mr. President, to some extent, this argument, at least, is a matter of interest. on the part of the attack nation, just in the involvement of such alliances. This underscores the importance of our cooperation with Iceland and me shouldering our responsibilities. In my knowledge, Mr. President, the government's position in Iceland is clear enough to realize that the importance of solidarity is invaluable in times like this. That's what I've heard from government, Congress and Icelandic society. It is good for those who are at work under such circumstances to experience such strength and such. I hope that we will succeed in our worldwide work that will ensure our years of peace and security.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u42	A respectable president. Today, it is a difficult step to get on our public speaker and discuss the disaster in Ukraine. Who would have thought that the headlines would be: If you fight against it, we'd just wipe your town out with artillery? Who could have believed that one of the world's leading leaders, the personal dictator Vladimír Pútín, would say: I'm just helping the Ukraine and trying to free them from the superpowers of drug addicts and Nazis. Here he is talking about a Jewish president of Ukraine. This is the message, a respectable president, as this man, which is clearly at least In no way is there any connection with reality, bringing its people. We must never ever condemn ourselves, condemn the Russians themselves because they despise the actions of their president today. He is attacking everything we know; our freedom, our lives, and all that we have known since World War II, all the things we have tried to build up to protect and keep peace. Never since World War II have we ever faced others as threatening as we do today, and it is because of one single person who, in fact, must be almost insane. A respectable president. I urge you all: Let us not only open our minds and hearts, let us not just send encouragement and all we can do to Ukraine, but let us open our home here if they need it. It doesn't matter how many apartments we have or what condition we have at home, we always have more than enough for those who need us. I'm just saying, "I'm encouraging us." It is united in Europe, far more united than this individual, Vladimír Pútín, could ever have imagined. He believed that we did not have this cohesion, he believed that Europe was actually divided. [[The president calls.]] Finally, a respectable president, where would we be without NATO today?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u43	A respectable president. If there's something that the terrible things we've all been watching in the media in these last days show us, it's just how valuable peace is for our whole life. Peace is the foundation of prosperity. We, the warless, peaceful people, who cannot so much as think on the basis of strategy and arms, still feel the value of peace in order to ensure daily life. The vicious attack of Ukraine today is based on 19th - century ideologies, a 20th - century vocabulary, with weapons of the 21st century by the hands of the Russian government. I'm not putting all the Russian people under that hat and I think it's important that we try our language. The decisions made by the Russian government are not the people of all nations. We need to be at peace with one another through the system and the worldwide cooperation we share in. We want and communicate well with the other northern countries and other countries in Europe. It's important to cultivate a bond. The political movement I am part of is designed to be out of military alliances and guided by peace policy. But no one needs to wonder about our integrity in the serious situation that has come up. The government operates according to Iceland's national security policy, as is clearly stated in both treaties in the cooperation of these categories. A respectable president. At an emergency meeting, the secretary - general of the United Nations said that the Ukraine war has to stop and that peace needs to be restored quickly. It must be the ideologies of the 21st century, not the old male - ideologies of war.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u44	A respectable president. As a former helper, I would like to start by saying thank you to the highest degree. Minister for immediately launching a coin for humanitarian assistance. It is important to make decisions quickly when things happen. I'd like to thank the highest. Minister for reporting here in the symposium on increased resources for humanitarian matters, and I would like to talk about humanitarian matters. You see, we have to work in many places, I'm not going to use the word of battle stations, but in many places, when it comes to helping people who are trapped in Ukraine, in basements, and in other places, we have to use diplomatic ways to pressure the availability of relief parties with food and relief supplies to these parties. We also need to have an active share in supporting the assistance given to people on the Ukraine border, especially in lands that themselves have an economic background. There, financial resources, human life, and various tools can be supportive. Refugees and refugees from Ukraine are already streaming into the country, and we need to give serious thought to how we deal with these problems and how to deal with them. consider applying last paragraph 49. g. the law of foreigners to simplify their arrival to this land. Finally, we need to work together on a broad foundation as a society in order to welcome people away from war. [[The president calls.]] Let us not forget that we are all Ukraine now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u45	A respectable president. The cruel oppression of Pútín against Ukraine is rooted in the greatest fear of seeing democracy flourishing beyond the border, since democracy is already contagious. This is an absolute war against democracy. Organization with Ukraine is also a solidarity with our own interests and values. Few nations are more dependent on others in defending the sovereignty of their country than are of Icelanders. Likewise, our responsibilities are to cooperate more than those of others. With all this and great change in the international community in recent years, it is proper to consider our work taking into account some factors to protect our interests. First, that we show a stronger solid solidarity with our alliances and immediately have the minister of foreign affairs set up a plan for a huge increase in the involvement of Iceland in civilian activities related to the shared activities of NATO. Second, in view of a new danger facing the security of the nations, we make our defenses with the United States more effective. Foreign Minister immediately request a discussion with the United States for addition to the national defence agreement, which will include the objective. to ensure that the defence agreement takes unequivocally to network attacks aimed at the safety of Iceland and then how to activate the contract. Third, we're supposed to trust the state of Iceland. To do this, you must immediately evaluate the benefits of stepping away from the final steps involved in the European Union's internal market. They need to look forward to trusting in the political position and interests of the country by getting a seat at the table, as we do in NATO. Foreign Minister recently said we were following the Polish of the EU. Then it is important to us that we have something to say about it. This needs to be assessed first because the European Union's environment of protection and security gains weight only. So our response to the war in Ukraine is not to be limited to today. We need to look ahead. We need to reevaluate Iceland's status in the new light, ensuring the future interests of the country in all areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u46	Mr. President. Thank you for your discussion, and I can count on most of the things that have been presented here, including That's what I'm talking about. Congress officials have noted the importance of distinguishing Russian governments from the public in Russia. It's important for future peace in the continent. This agrees with what I heard at the meeting I referred to in a discussion about the Senate with women from Ukraine, who said that the Russians were not enemies of the Ukrainians and that Russians who live here in Iceland have many of the people who wanted to assist their cousins from Ukraine. But I'd like to reiterate what I mentioned here on the importance of the government's speaking clearly about plans to form in the Internet security and how open the government is to the development of NATO here, but there is a strong chance that there will be an increase in the survival of the local defense union. In effect, the government follows a national security program as it should. But how fast will the government adapt to this changing world order, this changed situation? Remember, too, that in the past, the Western world has become very ill, and even the Western era is spoken of. Under these circumstances, government agencies against democracy and greedy ones can try to take advantage of the situation, so that we must always remember how the communities we have built up in the West came into existence and protect the baselines that led to these successs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u47	Mr. President. We are living in a time that will have a major impact on European security issues in the coming decades. During the past few days, a new line has been drawn to the sand in Europe's security. The steps taken by Germany last weekend are big steps, and history and Sweden have not brought weapons to another country that has been at war since the winter war, so we are seeing signs of amazing things compared to the political history of Europe in recent decades. NATO was founded in 1949, and we are so lucky to be part of it, where the powerful guidance of those in authority at that time led us into NATO. Today there are 30 kingdoms in NATO, or some a billion inhabitants of the earth. There is no more powerful democratic alliance in the world than NATO, there has been peace, and most if not all of the democratic states of the earth, at least, are in NATO. Let us be guided by the fact that there are not necessarily so many of them. We are also hearing that Europe is now taking great care of protection and improvement. Today, the European Union pays about 20% into NATO versus 80% of countries outside the European Union. This is an amazing invasion war. It's just a pure and direct invasion war as Russian government - let's just assume that it's the Pútín government that controls the journey, not the Russian people. We support Ukraine, and let us work hard on humanitarian work and give attention to this and financial support there, putting much more than 150 million in this work. There we can make a valid decision in a foreign land.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u48	Mr. President. We are seeing a tragic tragedy every day in which Pútín directs his army to attack Ukraine, where innocent citizens, schools, and hospitals are targets. There is even more disaster for Ukraine, and its inhabitants wait for it to be hoped - for. One city of another falls to invading armies despite the heroic defenses of the Ukrainians. I said here yesterday that it was admirable to see the international solidarity of the Ukrainian nation and the illegal invasion of Russia in Ukraine. I would also like to commend the prime minister and secretary of state who have condemned the invasion and said that all routes will be sought for a cease - fire and that Iceland will be fully part of the economic pressure against other states and political leaders as never before. I would also like to commend Icelandic members and political parties who have been united in their condemnation of Russia's wars. The power of international solidarity is to display itself. Sadly, a similar situation is rare but incredibly necessary at a time when one of the world's major and strongest military powers is attacking a state that has not come close to the same level of military activity. It is also vital that we do not take advantage of this disastrous invasion for political purposes, for political games. The political stand in Iceland to the North Atlantic is not what counts today on the seventh day of the Russian invasion into independent Ukraine, as it is attempted to draw forward here. The most important thing now is to maintain the solidarity between the various political parties in condemning the Russian invasion of innocent citizens in Ukraine and that as an independent military state, we are determined to take immediate action against Russia's brutal economic actions about the attack and the political elimination of the Russians on the international scale of peace, human rights, laws, and regulations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Like other people seeking international protection, we also need to be ready to put more money into humanitarian assistance and open our borders to the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u49	V.E.G. President. First, I would like to thank a fortune - teller for the importance of having both of us help with the countries that now face the vast numbers of people who cross the Ukraine border, but more than anything else, we must take our responsibility here at home. This is no doubt a complex problem today, and my knowledge is one of the largest refugee problems we have ever seen. And when I talk about trouble, I talk about the problems of the people who are now struggling to have been torn up from their homes and had to walk a long way out of a scary bomb that now falls on innocent citizens in Ukraine. The only thing that comes to mind that I can possibly compare is the terrible civil war that took place in the Balkans. Then, multitudes of refugees came to the country we welcomed, even people from different ethnic groups that had recently fought war between them. The adjustment of these people and our assistance to the Icelanders has been successful. That's good for us. Now we're going to be called again, and of course we're not going to get caught. We Icelanders have a lot to give, we have great experience in welcoming people, caring for them, and making sure they are protected and able to live a decent life in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u50	Mr. President. Many good things have been said and suggested here. The question is, How many are listening to something that will change. Yet, what distinguishes the discussion here and in most other places is human feelings and compassion for those who suffer the loss of the population in Ukraine. What would most likely be the most grateful one on our side, the simplest, and the most difficult way to stay away from the food plant in Iceland? Would it not be that we were united here in this room along with those in the government that are present today and in Iceland's large companies, transport companies, food producers, and those who hunt from our common sea resources to send these people food, people on the move in the middle of winter? With a combined campaign, I think it could become a container of what would be sent from the English language, which would no doubt be appreciated. We've done this before, in another form, actually, the Thailand flood, and other tasks, we've combined for a good deed that I think we're ready to repeat. I'm throwing this idea up a second time today, she got a good reception this morning, and this is something for us to move on. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u51	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor for the discussion. There's been some very important discussions here today. We in Iceland are supposed to speak for humanity and pressure all parties for peace. This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, also the highest. Iceland's social and workforce minister will respond to the largest man-sufficiency in the last few decades in Europe and provide shelter. A refugee committee is now working on the task of preparing people for their arrival here in the country. The situation in Ukraine is said to be terrible, and peace must come as soon as possible. We members of the Parliament are now carrying a number of mails and messages from individuals and partners and companies who want one way or another to help. Icelandic people unite in their desire to stand up for humanity and peace. It is important that the solidarity and solidarity that we have seen and heard, as well as in the Senate hall, continue to travel to the public in Iceland as well as to Ukraine and Russia.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u52	A respectable president. I will, of course, agree to the condemnation of the illegal invasion of Russia's invasion war in Ukraine and to support the actions established by the government, along with our friends nations, the use of economic pressure, and other laws against Russia. But I would like to come up here as a representative of the European Parliament's Iceland Council and call attention to the evidence that the European Council dismissed Russia from the Council of Europe. This will have far - reaching consequences for this country's house of democracy and justice and human rights. Russia pays a very high Member State fee, a high percentage of what it takes to run this important organisation, and the decision to dismiss Russia from the European Council will therefore translate a significant blow to the Council of Europe. Today, the German Congress has concluded that it will, at least in its own way, guarantee that financial consequences will not be filled by the ousting of Russia from the Council of Europe. So I wanted to encourage the Icelandic government to take the same initiative before I take my own advice, and I would like to propose some action for the council, especially in the light of the fact that we're about to take the lead in the Council of Ministers. It would be a good idea that we are included in the union of the states that ensures that the right protection of Europe's citizens will not suffer because we have been on justice and with the people of Ukraine by departing Russia from the Council of Europe. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. A government to participate in these measures to ensure that the European Council can continue to perform its important work in the continent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u53	A respectable president. We are living in a time of history. At the General Assembly, on the part of the government and the Icelandic nation, the United States is a prominent and prominent figure in Ukraine's cause. This state of war leads to a stronger solidarity than ever before in Europe, that is becoming a deeper understanding of the importance of Europe's security activities, and I believe that there is a deeper understanding of the importance of European cooperation in a larger context. The real danger is that Ukraine will be the threshold for Russia. The Ukraine in NATO would have a lot to say, be important to us in the United States. After an informal meeting yesterday with the Ukraine ambassador, Olga Díbrova, I have felt that I want to say what I can from here, and look at it, and discuss what steps we can take as a nation. It was of great importance that the Russians were expelled from the Council of Ministers during the war effort, but we also have diplomatic significance in being able to send home the ambassador of Russia. Iceland is a small and warless nation, all of which depend on the respect and respect of international laws and borders. Of course, all countries have interests, but few countries like us are prepared to accept this global rule. I'm proud to say the most. The secretary of state for the first few days proud of your solidarity here at the General Assembly, proud of the European Union's solidarity. We know we need strong business barriers. We need action on all sides, sports relationships, culture and lists, and we need to raise Iceland's capital for humanitarian assistance and the welcome to escape. [[The president calls.]] President. We should not rule out sending out the Russian ambassador. It is a step and action that must be considered in the name of this solidarity that I give back. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u54	Mr. President. The increased strength of the West and our prospects for helping in this situation and similar situations if they come up again, which we, of course, hope will not be based on the baseline democracy that we will discuss things as they are, even deal with the best ways. As a result, we may need to discuss the best ways to achieve the most results in helping the Ukrainians and what ways are truly the best ways to achieve peace. For example, it is very important and enjoyable to learn that the discussion has been signed here that we do not forget the importance of assistance in the closer environment. Because many times they have been forgotten, for instance, for help and assistance to Lebanon, who have successfully faced enormous refugee problems, but in my opinion have been neglected by government in the Western world, possibly because assistance there is not as visible as assistance in the surrounding environment. Because all of this has to be done, that we can meet people in Iceland and yet not forget the importance of being useful, since they may not be so visible. And that we are getting closer to this huge, difficult subject based on the facts and even allow ourselves to reason on the best ways to find the most effective ways to help.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u55	Mr. President. I want the end of this discussion to thank you. paritaprevir So did Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, for asking for the discussion that I know he did some days ago and for the members of the council for this discussion, again and again that it is good to know and to feel the solidarity that exists so far. I know things can change and happen, but I think it's time for us here, far away from our security, to be able to stand together as one man and do what we can for the Ukrainian people. In this crisis, there is one attacker. There are Russian authorities, and I agree with members of Congress who have mentioned that it is important to understand that Russian authorities and the Russian public, on the other hand, because the Russian president has unscrupulously made himself aware that he is willing to do much to achieve his own way and is ready to use weapons of mass destruction. I'm not gonna drag a feather over it that's a scary situation. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir specifically included experts in Iceland's civil activities on behalf of the Atlantic Community. We have nine experts in the State Department Security and Defenses today and most of them are with NATO. We aim for 13 by the end of the year, and we now have an expert on information in the cooperation of the Lithuanian Atlantic Community and are also with Estonia and Latvia. This is important to these countries and to us. Our presence in NATO does the same, and it makes us clear. This brings with it responsibility and responsibility, and I agree that Internet attacks and the number of factors that we need to take very seriously are increasing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u56	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize the state's payment laws on criminal benefits, No. 69/1995. [[correction of state funds payment criteria]] With me on the bill is why. Councilmen Ásundur Lóa Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Kristinsson Insson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. With President's permission, I'm going to refer directly to the legal articles with the bill. - Uh-huh. - The following changes will be made to 7. The law: a. Instead of ◯250,000, for a team 2 mg. It'll be 455,000. b. Instead of ◯5,000,000 in the b-join 2.mg. comes at 9:140,000. c. Instead of ◯3,000,000 in c-joins 2 mg. comes 6,600,000. d. Instead of 200,000,500,000 to d-join 2.mgr. comes in, 4,470,000. ... inE-Serve 2 mg. comes 2,740,000. Add a new paragraph, as follows: Salvation thresholds 1st and 2nd. changes at the beginning of each year should be made in accordance with the evolution of a pay marker from baseline to the end of the next twelve months period, although they will never increase less or decrease more than the price of an index value. A respectable president. This is comparable to what we see in 69 C.E. A social security law, which is in violation of the day and into social security workers, where they are not allowed to enjoy general pay development in the country. Rather, there is a swing between a more favorable government fund at each time than the social security employee would not enjoy the doubt. Two. The bill says that this law will be validated on January 1, 2022, so if the law is accepted, it will apply from January 1 onward. Notice that I had a lot of senators' case last night, a case that all were fair and fair to make things better for those who need and use and use it, and now you notice that here I am measuring for this fairness of the fourth year in a row, as shown in the report. It is here transferred unchanged, except that the budget has been adjusted in accordance with the development of a remuneration point since the last submitted bill, as well as the conversion of values. Credits as state funds guarantee on the basis of a law on the payment of state funds for crime benefits are limited to 2 mg. 7. The law. The amount of money required has remained unchanged, thinking about, since 2012, that said for ten years, has remained unchanged and has not moved since 2012. How can one number be justified from taking place ten years ago? And it doesn't matter how the trend has been in the community, how the benefits have been made in society, how there have been raises in society, inflation development, and all the brains of society. No, the lawgiver does not intend, the government and the rulers do not intend to do anything about it. But since 2012, there have been changes in prices and, as I say, all kinds, all kinds, all kinds. That is why it is so important that we actually correct all this money from 2012 onward. Therefore, in these letters I listed earlier, it is evidently showing what the amount of money would look like today if it had followed an indexal evolution. It is then attached to this bill that once these changes have taken effect, these numbers will follow general pay development and no less than the index price. Let's, for example. Note that when money was turned last June 2012, the pay card, based on Iceland's Habitat site, was held at 433.1 points. But now, a respectable president, it stands at 791.6 points, and it is not likely to increase significantly in the future. So it is obvious that everywhere people are supposed to be mistaken, damaged, or whatever else they are, or just really necessary forwards, they draw the state's funds and the government's feet as they possibly can. I actually thought and stood in the belief that the government and the government of every state and country were for the benefit of their society, not the discrimination of its citizens, nor do I clearly show hostility toward them, as this indicates, how people who have suffered in the past, hurt, and passed all manner of suffering have simply been left behind for ten whole years. For the above reasons, a donation is suggested according to 2 mg. 7. Increase, the nature of the case. There is reason to be responsible for the government funds on compensation for misdeeds as determined by C- team 1. the bill will increase more than a relative increase in the number of other joints. The impact of crime on life and its well - being is becoming increasingly evident. Such effects are difficult to assess based on medical guidelines. Although the physical effects of fractures are assessed, it is harder to evaluate spiritual effects and can often be observed or increased long, long, long after the fracture is committed and until improvement is judged or determined. If so, it would be wish for such an increase in the responsibilities of the state's funds to encourage courts to determine a higher degree of improvement in serious cases than has been observed. It is also suggested that, according to 2 mg, the amount of money be permanently increased. 7. The law of law, in accordance with changes in the pay number, is particularly important for the tolerability involved here. In fact, I have nothing more to add, a respectable president. I'm just saying, it's one of those cases that I'd say was the way it was to clean up the code of the law. The scourging works are one of the laws that brought great joy when they were set up and accepted back then. But better, if it's enough. It is quite clear that those who really need, physically, physically, or physically, accident, or even crime, have been left behind for ten years without being crushed by the amount that was thus laid down to the extent of damage that the individuals had certainly suffered. So, I hope, more dignified President, I will not have to make an order for this case for the fifth time in a row, and it will be put on hold now, for a work that can be taken in and simply followed. There's nothing to do but accept this bill. We have repeatedly said that we do not care where good comes from. If only the government wanted to take it and follow it, they can. When it comes to performing good things, a group of people are proud to put their hands around them, hoping that they will be taken care of and approved. Finally, as a respected president, I would like to refer this matter to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u57	A respectable president. We're here on a bill to legalize the people's Flokiss on the upsurgents of crime. It is one thing to endure crime, physical and spiritual damage, and unfortunately the fact is that even those who have experienced it in dire circumstances do not bring relief to the rest of their lives and even end up in extreme poverty. It's amazing if we look at these reform classes as to how low the benefits are being judged. We're looking at an improvement in this category that, in the worst cases, we're asking for the improvement to increase from 5 million to 9,140, in the worst cases. That's not very high. This is the first step I'd say. This also shows us, as we have seen, that progress has not been made since 2012. Let us realize that it is not only this team of reforms that has taken place but also the total damage laws that are being judged as both financial disability and compensation. Governments after government have arranged these matters so that the longer the time will be over, the less the benefits will be, and the lower the support, the greater the cost of damage, making it more difficult for them to survive. This also applies, e.g. to the extent that a large proportion of them have not gone up for decades and we see that trying to do something better will take on a chain of impairments that often make the person worse than he was before. It tells us that these systems do not work and, in many cases, are far from working. In that group, we might add a new group of benefits we have seen in recent years that are fair - minded. The improvements are also shamefully low, since people have just been so violent that in many cases it is not possible to describe them. Then we must not forget that this violence is the responsibility of a community or a state. There are many pots broken in these matters, but as I say, this is the first step in only trying to make life easier for those who have actually suffered mental and physical damage because of crime. Of course, a government fund should provide and do all he can to demand that the person responsible for the crime be a citizen of it as far as possible, but we must still make sure that the individual left has the capital and all the support needed to achieve as much recovery as possible. So I say, hopefully this is the last time we recommend this essential bill. Given how governments over the past few years have dealt with these issues, I think it will be difficult. I'm afraid that unfortunately, it's the only way to get these matters through just getting a new government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u58	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for putting in this bill. But I'd like to make a suggestion to make this bill decent. You are not meant to have a limit on what the State will pay. It is well - known that victims will never get more money than the government guarantees. The ideaology behind the original law was that tolerance would not have to go to get these payments personally for what caused the damage. This should not be the case, e.g. The victims of sexual abuse need to go to get money for the rape. It's not supposed to be like that at all. It is not as if the government is giving this money to the victims because the government has reimbursed this money for what caused the damage. Then there should be no limit, and we don't have to figure out what the index is and all of this. The government, if a judge judges judge the sum, should pay the sum and the state, just as the state reaches things like a system of laws, be brought in to those who caused the damage. Otherwise, a judge can judge 100 billion in terms of knowing that the person will never see it, but only the amount here, which is naturally low. I know that, for example. Sexual offenses I know who have been judged penalties are simply told by their court officials: Forget the amount mentioned by the judge. You'll never see her, you'll only see what the state pays through the law. That's not the way it should be. If a judge says that a violation was so serious that improvement for that number should be made, it will be rewarded without the need to go and get it yourself or yourself. In addition, there are other defects in this law to be corrected, e.g. If you get something out of your social security or get something out of your sick money during that period, you can avoid it. What kind of bullshit is this? You're being judged guilty of a violation and since you've managed to get sick days, they're to be withdrawn. I don't know what it is. Senators who wrote it were thinking, a respectable president, I'm sure you're not supposed to say anything. Councilmen too much straight. It's my hope that everyone will have to go. The members of the government here watch these laws, watch this bill. A respectable president doesn't have to make any money. It simply has to take out 7. This song, and it's gonna take a lot of 10. these songs. Well, then we've got some pretty good songs where people like us are put in the middle of nowhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u59	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Húni Ólafsson's heartfelt talk. I can simply say every word as it is. A senator said. However, it has been this kind of lesson that you've learned from working here at the council that somewhere you have to start, and somehow we thought it would be better to get less than 10 million. K. but 5 million because we know that none of these things are within our reach anyway. We've always been trying to take these little steps in the right direction. But all I'm saying is that it's a real waste of us to run this legislation so that it will produce the results all of us want to see, I'm heartily agreeing with it. Senator. I can honestly say that cutting out 7 is really cool. I'm going to fix the bill in all directions. A senator talks about it. But then I'm 100% sure that for the fifth time and sixth time, we would measure for it and forever. It's not just the damage laws that we need to help with, we need to do more. I'm asking why. A senator whether he just wants to help us make even more powerful bill that we offer. We might have made that offer before April 1. We have time and opportunity for that. However, this bill is designed with good intentions and is designed to allow what was decided ten years ago to follow at least pay-up development in the country and the index. Other than that, we were not jumping up the damage laws this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an answer and a sharp one. A senator's concern is that when it comes to correcting injustice, we may at times have to think more. And I don't believe that, most respectable president, anyone at all. A senator in this room will stand by the side of the doer in this matter rather than by the side of those who endure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Sadly, though, we are seeing every day the situation and the management of the victims of what kind has truly been established forever and ever. We've been calling for an attempt to improve the level of violations, but unfortunately it is not. But, yeah, we can think bigger and often I've been implicated in being in the middle of a cloud town and a dream world with all my big thoughts and goals for everything and all in our beautiful community, so I've learned that it's better to get it done and to get results equally than bringing it all on board and getting one straight on the mouth, as it says. I'm very interested in everything I do, but I try, a respectable president and why. Senator, to be realistic. If we reached that point, I would certainly feel that it was worth the effort and would be grateful for it at first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u62	A respectable president. Yeah, get a step or a big one. I'm willing to get my ass kicked for violations. I'll just put on the other cheek. But I will fight at the side of the dog. paritaprevir Sæland Gaand and others when it comes to improving their procrastination. There I will fight and fight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u63	A respectable president. I'm proud to be a co-sponsor of this bill for a change in the law on the payment of state funds on the payment of criminal tolerance, which is the 1995 law. It is worth examining on 1st pars. The bill, the figures here are changing, that the number of a team from 1995, in the b-party is changing the amount of money that came into law 2012, to c-in 2012, to the c-join, d-d-Jault 1995, and e-along 2012. The A- force is responsible for damage to waste and the b- unit is subject to physical injury, including permanent failure and permanent disability, c- team is affected by failure, the d- team is the loss of candidates, and the E- team is due to funeral costs. I believe there's a long-term change in law here. As the first transporterman said earlier: This is one of these matters that must be recorded in Icelandic legislation. This is also one of these matters that must be done as early as possible, and this has been the day of the legislation, clean and direct. The financial values I listed earlier, from 1995 to 1995, and three from 2012, are simply too small. I think it's very important, too, what 2 mg says. 1st par. The bill, by permission of the President: BN 0 - 0 - 0 - 0 (x 0) 1st and 2nd. changes at the beginning of each year should be made in accordance with the evolution of a pay marker from baseline to the end of the next twelve months period, although they will never increase less or decrease more than the price of an index value. The remuneration number is currently being determined, but the amount can never be dropped or raised below the level of consumer prices. This is a legalized violation of current legislation, that these funds did not develop in accordance with prices. That's a great fault. When the last change was made in June 2012, the pay card was 433 points. Now there's a pay number in 791.6 points, it's almost doubled, and yet we still have the same amount. It is absolutely necessary to change this, absolutely fundamental, and the Allied Assembly of Iceland would certainly be to stand by the tolerability if this bill became a law. This is only for granted, and it is a very important bill for victims of crime. And it is true that in the bill it is wish that this increase in government funds would encourage the courts to determine a higher compensation for serious wrongs than has been practiced so far. It is essential that this is bound to the index price of consumption because the pay sheet, as shown in the bill, can be reduced if the economy is rapidly deteriorating. Therefore, it is very important to take into account the index value of consumer consumption if it rises more or does not lower in a year than the pay sheet, so this is just a personal thing and should really not be any issue. I can't see what to stop this matter from being mentioned in any way. It's a small bill, but it's extremely important for the victims of crime and in times where there's much talk about edgy efficiency and not taking into account the tolerability, this would be the right message from the Allied Council on how it feels about reforms to endure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u64	A respectable president. Here I recommend another bill, fairness and justice bill, a change in social security law, No. 100/2007, and the cost of payment is low. My importers are down. Councilmen Áslldur Loa Þórsdóttur, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Kristinsson Insson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. - Uh-huh. - At 2nd. 53. g. The law adds to the new lawsuits, as follows: A insurance agency shall pay all the cost of the implementation of the payment. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ The report on the bill says that this issue has been presented in the past, attention to 149., 150., and 151. I'm measuring for the fourth time on this matter, a tiny level of fairness that's going to be very important in the context. It is now submitted back to the same place. It is increasingly common for pensioners to move abroad. How is it, more dignified President, that pension workers take the Polish to the hill that it is better to choose with their feet and leave their country than to remain here? I wonder why they would be here equipped with such poverty and food carnivores so expensive that there is no way for them to live on the progress they have from the government's insurance agency. In these cases, those who have chosen to vote with their feet and who have the right to do so are often paid by a insurance agency into foreign bank accounts. Such money transfers from countries have a considerable higher cost than normal land transfers, as everyone knows, and those living abroad carry the cost of paying. Hence, they suffer a degree of rights on the basis of their home. Another example of inadequacy, a respectable president. I've lost the number a long time ago in the way of the pinch and keep turning curved banks. The bill suggests that the cost of government rights paid by an insurance agency is paid to support discrimination on the basis of localisation. In addition, a larger customer - like - know insurance agency is in a better position to negotiate with business banks for lower costs of such transfers. The transfer cost, if I know it correctly, about 3,000 bucks. per month. An Icelander who has chosen with his feet and lives abroad in his social security bills needs to pay 3,000 bucks. For this transfer. That's 36,000. Iceland, a year before a person who has taken up chores because it is believed that when he lives in a foreign country, he probably has no place to live. In fact, he is deprived of the extraordinary number of rights he has here from a insurance agency, and he receives no more amassed social insurance. So on top of everything, he's gonna have to pay for this tiny transfer, transfer of pay, which is so shamefully low that it doesn't take anything to talk. There are many things, a respectable president, in this fine system we have to fix. I'm begging for respect, I didn't mean well. I meant that system, which is a bad system, and it was damaging to those that were to be least harmed. It is amazing to have to measure this matter now for the fourth time, since we are only asking that there be no distinctions between people who are so troubled that they have had to flee the country in order to have a good time and before meals, where food is much less expensive. But no, then we'll take the 36,000. This year, in addition to all the losses we bring on them, and have them pay more than any other social security agent, which will be deposited in Icelandic bank accounts. A respectable president. I'm measuring up for one thing of justice after another today and I was measuring out for a lot of justice matters yesterday. I'll recommend four to five today. It's no wonder, because I don't expect government officials to sit there right now and watch out for the issues that the people's party is giving and making. I guess they have no idea what we're doing and what we're trying to achieve, unfortunately. In effect, it shows the willingness and hard work of these people to work for their people. I believed that, for example. not with such a simple thing that it could be possible for you to measure for it repeatedly, a language so long as it is so far from going to put a treasure on its side, though they will follow this justice. Before I completely release myself, a respectable president, I'm thinking of referring this fine matter to why. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u65	A respectable president. Costs of payment; pennies for the state; enormous sums of money for those to need. But consider what we're talking about: People who want to live abroad decide for some reason, perhaps because their children are there or they decide for some reason that they want to live abroad. Let's leave it between parts. Then there are others who are fleeing, just fleeing to a foreign land because they feel that they can be better there. But what does the social security system do then? Government by government has established this butt-scraped monster. What happened when the person makes that decision? Yes, he's getting reviews. It's taken from him his household chores, it's taken from him the strength of his car, it's taken from him a drug scholarship, if the person has received it, it's taken from him, a special mortgage. Then all that is possible should be done so that the person cannot in any way and would not dare to try to have a better life elsewhere. And this also comes on top of the cost. I ask myself, and I've been asking myself ever since I met this amazing system of social security: "How on earth did we ever start to invent it? Second, how could we possibly make it? And third, how can we maintain this system without blushing or blushing? What is it in government's soul by government? For some reason, we've been doing this system for decades. Why am I completely covered? In some strange way it is--if we look at who's in this system, who are they? Those are the worst, e.g. In the micropower system, that's the worst people in the world. I'm asking myself, " If you're sick and have access to this system because you're worth more than 75% an invalid, do you have to punish yourself for more? ' Is that not enough punishment for life? No, the government and the other government and the other government and the present government. No, no, no, we have to punish them more. You had the nerve to get sick, you had the nerve to get hurt, and if you're gonna have the nerve to go abroad, we'll punish you even more. The system of punishment. It's all been created. It's a terrible penalty system. A respectable president. I can't say anything else to people, if anyone's listening, but that the only way to change this, as I said before, is to change the government. Otherwise, all of this will remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u66	A respectable president. I'm a proud carrier of this bill to legalize social security legislation, no. 100/2007. This is, as we have seen with the first carrier, why. paritaprevir Inga Sæland, of small business. This is a law-change of one sentence: A insurance agency shall pay all the cost resulting from the implementation of payments. It is much more common now that pensioners move abroad, and they need to be paid in foreign bills. The payment on a foreign account may cost money and the payment of a pensioner, I'd like to say, a good example of the U.S. economy. It's so strange that pensioners should pay for these transactions. That's a pensioner paying for an insurance company, you could say that. When you take a closer look at this, you'll see that this is a change in the social security law of 53.3. g. The article is entitled Start and End of Laundromats and Substitutions. Since insurance agencies pay creditors or pensioners for foreign bank accounts, the Constitution's equal rule is being violated. It's perfectly set in my mind, and I can tell you why, why, why. Senators. The Constitution says, 65. G., that all are equal to law and have human rights without regard to sex, religion, beliefs, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal status, and otherwise. Whether a pensioner lives in Iceland or lives abroad should not matter about the payment of pensions. It is discrimination that if a pensioner lives in a foreign country, he has to pay for the payment into his foreign bank account but that he lives in Iceland doesn't have to pay for anything. This is discrimination based on their status. If any pensioner were to sue the courts, and I know it's very costly to put such a test into practice, I believe that he was obviously of more legitimate value. This bill simply goes on to correct discrimination as a pensioner living abroad, has moved abroad, and receives money abroad. I don't think it's the same in other countries. That would be at least It is a strong matter to refer to the Constitution and to say that it was a discriminatory pensioner living abroad that he must pay the cost of getting money into a foreign bank account. There's no grammatical evidence that the pensioner should pay the cost. Like I said, it's 53s. Act on social security Start and closure of reforms and payment arrangements. The discrimination of the payment arrangement for a foreign resident is different from that of the one living in Iceland. That's my opinion, and I think this little thing is a good example of what kind of system we live in. This is exactly the same as the above case, showing that there is nothing for reformers and pensioners, exactly nothing, if it is not completely clearly identified in a insurance agency as to how the arrangement should be done. For real, such a bill should be unnecessary. It's a good thing that if a pensioner wants a foreign bank account, they'll be paid in a foreign bank account. There is nothing in the law that says that the pensioner should pay for the money transfer or payment. There's nothing to say, and then it means that a insurance agency is supposed to carry the cost. I can't believe this case is being treated positively in the Senate committee. I know this is the fourth time the case has been delivered, so there is no reference to calm, but I am new to the council, and by nature a very optimistic man, and I have not yet had the experience of passing a little language four times. I just can't see, in the light of the laws and the position of the people, that it's precarious that a pensioner has to pay the cost. It's such a matter that it should flow through a Senate committee. But I don't know if there's any evidence to calm down, considering that this is the fourth time the case has been delivered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u67	President. This is an interesting subject that we're discussing here because for good reasons, but sometimes for very strange reasons, moving money between countries is quite complicated. When a pensioner gets a pension in this country, you can ask yourself: " Is he not getting paid in this country and then needs to get the money wherever he is? On the contrary, if there is something complicated, as this bill points out, why does it need to be complicated? That is exactly what happened when I moved from the United States to Iceland. That's the only time I've had to get in trouble moving money from country to country, where there had to be a small amount of money from abroad, and you came home, and then you had to move the rest that wasn't very much, something anyway. I have a debet card linked to my bank account in the United States and, of course, I'm just gonna empty it, and nothing was supposed to be too complicated. But it cost quite a bit of the money I was going to take out. I don't remember whether it was 2.5% or something that's just ridiculous. What difference does it make whether I'm taking out $100 or $200? Why does paying money have to be higher as I spend more money on account of my account? This is ridiculous. Then I go to the bank and ask cashiers: "How is this even possible? Then you can make some phone money, and it's an expensive amount. So if I'm going to deliver a small amount, it still costs $100, or whatever it was, but if I'm going to move $1,000, it's also only $100. All right, that's a big amount, but that sounds logical because the entry such as this costs, no matter how much money is being put between countries. Yeah, it's really weird. My bill wasn't set up so I couldn't use that way, unfortunately. I would have had to go to a branch and activate that it would be possible, and all manner of rightness is connected, and there are a lot of people who mismanage the way money is transferred from country to country, a variety of activities in which we would prefer not necessarily to be easy. But perhaps in some cases this should be more accessible. The most expensive solution after all - absolutely amazing, absolutely amazing - was to pick up the check I had left with the account. The paper, they still use it very much in the United States. Then you write a check for the rent and stuff like that. Then I'll write a check for the bank account, let my bank here in Iceland get that check, my bank here, he'll send it to his business bank - not my bank in the United States, but his business bank in the United States - which receives it. It's literally mailing and flying the check to the other bank, which then takes her to my business bank - just ◯fishine, exactly the check I wrote - and then gets the cash in cash that he'll send back to my bank right here in Iceland. That was the cheapest way. It's a completely ridiculous arrangement. You wondered about this computer age when you held the debet card in one hand and the checkbook in the other: Why would it be cheaper for me to send messages from abroad? That's why it could have gone on a ship, I don't know. There is a limited time for this transfer, up to one month, so if it doesn't run out in one month, it will zero out. It took one month, a month, with all the mail fees and I don't know how much trouble, human work to handle the check I just sent, because I could have stuck my debet card in the ATM and got exactly the same money for. I would have thought it was somehow cheaper. I would have thought so. This may be an introduction to the problem we have here. We have an Icelandic financial service now - something strange - and we have other types of payment opportunities, such as in electrical coins and the like, costing fractions of the cost of direct money shipments between banks. The risk of it is that you may buy the battery here in Iceland and maybe sell it in the country where you take over. This usually happens at about the same time, so you're not holding any money, and there's no collapse on the electrical coin. The fees in there are much lower. You see, there are other options than those offered. To have to use the cheapest transfer method, e.g. We're just having a little bit of a fluke in our time. But let's keep it behind our ear that there is a huge amount of money trucking between countries where money is placed in all kinds of tax documents, etc. But for normal people and the amount we're talking about here, it's not supposed to be a problem. It's no problem for a computer system to see when someone is sending a lot of small amounts of money to try to get under the radar or something like that. It's just gonna gather up and get attention right away. But when someone is sending thousands of people each month, it's not something to worry about. I suggest in this discussion that this is not a problem for anyone, either the pensioner or the insurance agency, because sending money from one country to another is not going to cost so much, and less it should be a problem to change it in a way that the insurance agency or the state simply take that cost and find out the cheapest way to get it to its place - hopefully not by having to send a check.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u68	A respectable president. It was an interesting flat as a dog. A senator came in. I've lived abroad, including. In the United States, and I know that they're still very busy there, or they were at least the last time I was there. It's amazing what the payment system is like there. But there is also a large percentage of poor people outside of banking services, very large things with so-called pelayday-ends, which are loans. I wouldn't compare us with the United States in this regard. I recently received money from the United States, and it was after a considerable back, finally succeeded, but today in Europe and also in the United States, it's not a problem. There are all banks with so-called SWIFT code, we can see it at the bottom of the bank website, the code of Aion banks is ESJISRE, the Bank of Iceland GLITISRE. SWIFT code is what's called Business Information Code, and then all people have a so-called IBAN number, i.e. Each bank account in Iceland has an IBAN number or part of it. There is an international bank number, International Bank Account Number, so moving money between countries is no problem, should not be a problem, and Iceland is unusually well located in terms of financial services and the North and Europe as well. In fact, banks profit from the transfer of Icelandic dollars that an insurance agency would pay, buy dollars on the way. I've moved money from Norway to Iceland and I've never thought about it. There's some expense in there and the fact that a insurance agency doesn't pay it is a complete scandal in my opinion. Transferring money into an Icelandic bank account and a foreign bank account is no different. It's really just the difference between the IBAN numbers and the real bank number. I'm asking why. A senator: Can he see any difference? Does he see any evidence, though there may be more of a problem in the United States, quite certainly in the light of history, but in the course of my last experience, that this cost should not be paid, and should only be paid as little as it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u69	President. I'd like a pensioner to just tell you which bank account to transfer. Such transfers often come at high costs, and in some respects it may be a choice to select a bank account with high costs of translocation or similar items that would not be desirable. What I'm trying to point out is that in the modern world, there should hardly be such a cost on transfer, and in this world it doesn't matter which account a pensioner chooses to transfer, because the cost is anyway. But we don't live with it right now, unfortunately. I don't see anything wrong with this being the amount of money a pensioner gets defined into his bank account regardless of other costs. But I also see a reasonable argument behind the fact that people are at least choosing an account that is not a problem. I don't know. But I'm just pointing out that we should do better in these transfers and use the access available in the world today to minimize the total cost to all these citizens, not just to bio-employers, but all of them. Then it's not a problem after all, you can move money back and forth and carry this money that might be counted by each entry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's just this. There should not be any difference in whether a pensioner has a foreign bank account or an Icelandic bank account, as seen from a insurance agency, is not to be any different. Hv. A senator mentioned money laundering and so on. I think if there's anything, there's only better money control around here than in this country. We were on the list of noncooperative states for a time, which is a black list in the world for that matter. There's another thing that matters for the pensioners. They can use Icelandic credit cards, they can use Icelandic bank cards, but they always trade currency when they pay, and it's much better if you live abroad, doing business with the local bank, using its credit card and using its currency. Using foreign bank accounts is a great advantage for a pensioner. That they're being charged with this money every time they're moving money from Iceland into a foreign bank account and they're drawn from the pension pay, I don't think I'm equal to the amount of money I've been living in. We are to have equal control over the internal market of the European Economic Area, and if anyone should benefit from voluntary transport, it is a pensioner. This is absolutely perfect. And it's so small that I think it's a complete scandal to be in this, the insurance department is just to take it away from herself. I hope the General will agree to this bill and give a message to the insurance agency on how to actually do this so that people can start foreign bank accounts. It's a small thing, it's not a foreign landmark like here, but there's something to prove that's true and that's not true. It's just a matter of course, people who want to live abroad are allowed to do it and enjoy the Icelandic pensions abroad without being taken away. I'd like to hear what you're thinking. A senator's opinion on whether this difference is not simply a complete scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u71	President. I wondered why a insurance agency is supposed to be involved in buying currency. Isn't it really just a transfer of Icelandic dollars to people with Icelandic pension rights? [[Up front.]] Yeah. Hv. A senator points out that sometimes this happens automatically, but the cost is at hand, where does it land? That's the key right here. I would think that on account of the U.S. Insurance Agency that is paying off in the United States, that is because it is what we approve here at the council, the legal rights of the Icelandic government, is what the insurance agency is paying off, and does not have to carry any other cost beyond that. It must be the person who accepts the Icelandic crowns who then decides what to do with them. At any rate, I feel equal to anyone with Icelandic pension rights, to get the Icelandic dollars they have rights, not the dollar or the euro, or whatever else it is, i.e. at the cost of the state and the cost of everyone else. So I don't see that we're agreeing to the budget or to legalize the cost of that account. However, the cost of transfer is quite different.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u72	A respectable president. Another fair and fair thing I say here today. This is the bill for changing social assistance laws, No. 99/2007, and it seems to be a domestic supplement. The movers with me are why. Councilmen Ásundur Loa Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Kristinsson Insson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. 1st par. The bill reads: ▪ After 1st mg. Section 8. The law has two new paragraphs, as follows: A pensioner who lives with an individual who has not reached 21 years of age is considered to have financial benefits from farms or housing opportunities or food expenses. The parent of an elderly person who is 213/425 years of age and who is in full - time education or training is not considered to have financial benefits from farms or housing repairs or food expenses. The requirement for the study and training to take at least six months each year. In case of an irregular course or course, study period should be calculated in the number of classes per year, which constitutes six months of study, corresponding to 624 lessons. A month-by-month fracture is considered as a whole month. 2.g. It reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. In a paper with the bill submitted to the 151th legislature - I'm measuring it for the second time, since it did not succeed in the last legislature, rather said at the last legislation of the last election, but here I am presenting it again. Shortly after this bill was submitted last spring, a minister at last made a long - awaited change in the Regulation on domestic chores that prevented home satisfaction from being impaired by students of the age of 183/425, who live in the same home as a pensioner. It should be celebrated, but there is good reason to walk all the way and to ensure this by parents'rights in the law itself. In addition, the bill goes beyond the current Regulation, as the exception of the bill also applies to individuals who are not in the study at the age of 18◯21. The Lawgiver is required to ensure immunity from family and household. They are forbidden to be restricted by law and only if it is clearly necessary because of the rights of others, as stated at 71 C.E. The constitution. It is unmistakably true that the legislation promotes family division and division in various ways. It's the reality that these pensions suffer from social security. Various rights fall down when children reach 18 years of age. At that time, pensioners will suffer significant loss of income. Like others, they lose the right to child reform, but they also lose other rights. Child support, pensions, mothers and fathers pay is lost. In addition, if a child stays in the home of a single parent, the right to household chores is lost. The wages of a single mother of two children, or father, is cut down by nearly 100,000 dollars. during a month when your older child reaches 18 years. Then children's pensions and mother's pay are reduced, but home remuneration is severely impaired. However, if a child is in the full - time service, he may obtain an extension of two more years, but this requires special application. It is obvious that current legislation breaks down families that do not make ends meet without this progress. To avoid losing the right to household satisfaction, many parents are forced to dismiss their children. In this way, legal registration in another household can often be assumed to be mere tokens. True, there is good reason to believe that benefits for single - parent families should fall when their children reach adulthood. However, they must be careful that the effects will not be too burdensome. The pressure needs to be better distributed, preventing all the payment groups from being affected at the same time. It is therefore suggested that household chores be not affected by a child living in a parent's home until he is 21 years old. It is already in the scope of Regulation, but it requires that a child be fully educated. By making room for a parent's domestic satisfaction until the person reaches 21 years of age, there is room for the person to find a proper study or job and seek suitable housing. Another suggestion is that a parent's full - time education should not suffer loss until he is 26 years old. Thus a person's freedom to live at home will be created until after high school. Then they have a real choice of living at home during high school or on their own and taking a student's loan. Children of wealthy parents can choose between them and benefit from having lived at home during study periods. This choice should be available regardless of the economy. The rules for dating children tend to increase even more inexorably, and the chances of children having single children having the opportunity to break out of their parents'poverty trap are little or no. If this bill is legalized, the worst effects of such impairment will be eliminated, and the individual will be able to break out of poverty. A respectable president. It is quite remarkable that you are reading this, that this is a real situation today, that we know that parents need to dismiss their children from their home, and that they have to register them somewhere else in a home to avoid more than 100,000 years of residence. in a month of pay they have so far could not survive. What kind of system is that? Would we call this a family - oriented system? A respectable president. Today, 11% of all individuals in the class of 19 this year were out of work and out of school. I say: It is only reasonable and reasonable to allow family members to allow themselves to be able to provide properly for their child, despite the fact that the individual has become legal, especially if we are looking at the situation in the community today with a call for improvement in housing conditions, but the issues are all in the trash, a respectable president, in the fullest sense. It is quite remarkable that people have to pay up to $1 million for one brick. That's what's going on in the market today, what abduction. This is so remarkable that even if property prices are inflated, there is a total of 10 to15% more in property, even bringing money in a bag to replace it. Such is the application for housing. How is that, Mr. Honorable President? How can it be justified by the fact that parents, much of the single parent, are in a position to call their friends and colleagues out of every country to try to get their child enrolled so that they do not lose what they have from the social security system? It's all about such remarkable things. As the chairman of the Corine Community, Þuríður Harpa Sigurðardóttir, points out, it is shameful that it is predominantly desperate, and those who are in the most desperate state who repeatedly find the need to throw their children out so that they can get along reasonably, which they don't, in fact, very well, very well do not. And now we're talking about a bill that will only deal with a person when he is over 18 years of age and until he is 26 years of age, if he is a full - time student, or until he is 21 years of age, even if he is not a student. This person does not contribute a cent to the home. He continues to communicate with the parent because he has no job or is not studying unless both are. He doesn't contribute to the house. Such a family is being cut off by more than 100,000 credits, a family with two children, or a single parent with two children, only because a person is not studying, is not learning and has reached 18 years of age. However, it is respectable to note that this Regulation has been presented here, that it will add a little bit better, but it will not go far enough. This bill goes much further, and it ensures in the legislation that children cannot be thrown out after they are 18 years of age, even though they are not fully educated. I was talking to a single mother with two children who are in temporary disability, a pensioner, and I remember that name, because of her serious illness. Her son's not a full-time student. In other words, he's not in the full study. He doesn't have the ability to do that at this very moment. And what will happen then? She's disabled, she's completely out of control. We in our people feel that such things are totally unacceptable, and we believe that this social group, which is clearly taking the lead in segregating families because of the economic situation, needs to be more determined that we create good rules that work well. These people need more than most of them and all the good senators who are willing to walk this street with us to make better homes and better families because we want to strengthen our families. We're a family-friendly group, we want to promote the family unit, we don't want to divide the families, ever. So I'm referring this case -- I hope I don't have to recommend it for the third time, a respectable president - to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u73	Madam President. I understand the point of this case, but I still scratch my head. Why is the person entitled to a pension so essential that a person living with whom he or she lives should be counted as some deduction from his rights, as it were? Can't the person decide who he lives with? That's the question I'd like to ask. Of course, this bill fixes a set number of years there, but the goal should be to allow people to live with whoever they want to achieve what they can, if they are interested in it. Or just live one of those, whatever it is. Our system, as it is, works in a way that, though, for quite a number of people, it divides people. It's very strange that the system will create such a possibility. I'd like to see something close to this, but just erase it out that it needs to stop at least 21 or 24, or whatever it is there, and just let people get the rights that they have as independent persons, regardless of who they choose to live.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The book of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, for good inquiry. Of course we should be allowed to determine who we live with. But a big brother says no. The State says no. You have to register all those who have your legal home so we can start cutting down payment on you. We live in one of the most powerful, weirdest, disgusting systems in the world. As soon as we see the person's potential because the government chooses to win, the person who sits at home and is an invalid may be able to do so badly all the time, the person's growth has had to rest all the time - no, you must not enter the home any more than you are taken in the bakery. It's like that, unfortunately. Worse yet, this also applies to those who are married to each other. This is also true in a couple's case, and one is invalid, and the other has a reasonable income. Then you, good invalid, realize that you will be entirely disabled and will not receive anything. You will be made entirely independent financially, from A to O, because your spouse is to take care of you. You have to beg of him in order to go to the movies and buy yourself a bra or a new pair of shoes. And can I, my dear mate, get a haircut? This is the life of the disabilityr. This is the system of social security we have prepared for today, unfortunately, and of all social security patients who have no other place to spend but blessed our social security, which we need to take to heart, preferably throw them into the trash. We need to light these guarantees now and start over completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u75	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with what I have to say. A senator in this regard, it's just to set this on fire and throw it at the dumpsite and use it as energy to do better. I worked on creating a system, a program like that, it's just a system, and when you get to something that's completely unusable and incomprehensible then a lot of work goes on trying to fix it, a lot more work than it takes to start over again. When we know what we want, how we want the systems, it's harder to squeeze it out of something that was based on a completely different reason to begin with, and then it was used over and over again in an effort to reach new criteria. But the underlying is the same faulty thinking that was present when the system was created. This does not necessarily mean that the system was defective when it was created but that circumstances have changed in a way that has become out - of - date. That's very normal. I get very often caught up in people's defenses because they made them, because some political parties created them. This is such a great system. You can't change that. It's just gonna have to hold on and stop it, and then it's gonna be great. Instead of acknowledging: Yes, it was wonderful when we made it, but the situation changed that destroyed it, and now all we have to do is make a new system. This may be the highest. Social Affairs is about to jump in, I have no idea. No clear answer has ever been made on how to revise the system, whether to fix it, or whether to resupply it. [[The president calls.]] I hope that something will soon come that is close to explaining what is behind it. In the meantime, though, let us try to do the best for what we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. Second and second man's answer. All I'm saying is this is a system that hasn't. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson has been calling it the but piecesy monster Frankenstein. That's right, it's so uptight that nobody understands it, not even the people at the insurance lab. It's hard to understand that they can't even get answers because the system is virtually incomprehensible. But whether these improvements in the system proclaimed by the current government, and maybe they get to look at the light, if the corpses give five minutes before the next election, I have little faith in--now I'm going to be a choice and a fortune-teller. They're not gonna build a system and dump it and start over. They're going to go through the social security for themselves and bring the famous performance assessment so that they can squeeze even more of the lowest paid, that it's their decision whether or not they have an X percent or not. That's exactly what this government has proclaimed, did it at least. in his picture during the last term. I don't know what she's been given to eat in the meantime if she's changed her mind. But I am quite 100 percent convinced that the only thing they're going to do is ride on this job estimate that is not good for anyone unless the invalid is given his own ability to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u77	A respectable president. Here is another bill from Floki, the people who are put forward to improve this frightening system that some geniuses in previous governments have invented, and geniuses in the governments that have followed have added to the curses. Home execution is one of the wonderful things in this system. I'd like to recall that a few years ago, I don't remember exactly when it was, there was a debate that there was a total fraud in the social security system. It would be a lot like traitors. The system would be losing, if I recall correctly, on a quarter billion on fraud. There was a huge investigation to find these dishonest sick people or older citizens in the system that are betraying so much money. This was linked to some foreign study that was not relevant to this matter, but somehow it was able to link all of it together and the search for fraud began. And, yes, they found a traitor. Not a great betrayal, but on a small scale. What traitors were there? Yes, there were people who had been living together but who enrolled in each other's home. Why did people do this? Yes, it was out of need. I think we've got an emergency. When people are so distressed that they can see neither how to support themselves nor their children on the emergency rights to be activated, and unfortunately, it was in this system that people were using their right to simply try to survive. For example, consider a family in a town with two children, two, three, that doesn't matter, and they are adults, age 18 or 20, or 21, that doesn't matter. The family decides to let the child stay at home. We know that as in Italy, they are at home up to 50 years of age, and they were actually making laws to force the children away from home, but they leave. We're not here yet. But that family would not be punished for having their children at home. There's nothing to be punished for just wanting the children at home. And think of the conditions that are now in the real estate, it's only natural that a large group of young people are still in their homes because they have no other potential. But if one member is in the social security system, you have to be punished. They need to be punished, so the child must be registered. The emergency court is activated, and I think it's only reasonable that the baby is registered elsewhere so that the family will not be subjected to a dramatic decline in the process. But in what ways are we also speaking in this context? For example, what I would call a couple tax, a clean, direct marital tax. If one mate is an invalid, and the other is not - let's say that the other is only at the minimum - that is because they live together - a married couple who lose 56,969 bucks, which is a home - to - day supplement. This tells us that it is being punished in several hundred thousand each year. If we move this over to something like that. Us senators, it would put on us a couple tax, take a share of income, and we'd figure out what we had to pay, i.e. One mate would have to lose his income to live up to it, and no one would think of it. But for some reason, they think of creating a system where this punishment is. But then there is something else that is still cruelly punished and that is kind of strange. It seems that the fears of the government after the government of two microchips are now intending to live together. I don't know what they're expecting to come out of it. But for some reason, they seem to be being plagued by this disease, and as a result, they placed a double tax on both sides. If they used to be in separate apartments and then decide to fold it together and have a better life then the state says, "No, it's not that easy for you. You should realize that you both lost 57,000 bucks. per month. Not enough. If they've been desperate since their 20's or 20's or even since they were only children, they've had a progressive supplement, and they're also dropping, about 15,000 bucks. Both dosing regimens. All of this means that one party loses 72,000, a total of 144,000. per month. Take a look at this. Look into what song system we've built, how inhuman evil system this is. The only chance these individuals have is somehow to get past this system. Sadly, though, this is not easy, but it should be a clean, bright emergency until governments see a little bit of light, and in some way they try to improve this system. We've been discussing this for a long time, this is the fifth year in a row we're trying to fight for small changes in this system, and considering how governments have handled the system, it would take a thousand years to get some changes. But as I've also said about all the bills we've recommended tonight, there's only one way in these matters. Let's get the government out of the way. Let's get to those trying to change the system. It's simple. This system can be changed, it can be done as soon as it does not have to cost anything, so government funds cannot handle it. To our shame, these three groups in power are to defend this system and maintain this system. They say time and again, before every election, that these groups can no longer wait for justice, but all these groups will still wait and will always have to wait while this government is in power.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u78	A respectable president. I'm proud of the importer of this bill to legalize the social security laws, in terms of domestic support. I said in a case that was moved here earlier that eight people were doing it. I mentioned, in the discussions about a case brought here yesterday, that the system was a human-friendly insurance agency. This is a matter of fighting against the system and of changing laws on social assistance that are directly hostile to the family, a fundamental unit of society. In this area, open - minded legislation breaks down families that do not make ends meet without the domestic support. Pensionists are the most troubled people in the country, and they are not active in the community; they live in isolation. The isolation is still enhanced when a child leaves the home. And the taking off of household chores when a child is away from home, and that is not done until now - this bill will lead to a failure until a child is 21 years old. How can you say that economic gain is because of having a child in your home, perhaps 18 years of age and at school? Everyone who lives in Iceland knows that family ties are strong in Iceland. Children are longer at home here than in other parts of the Western world, e.g. in Scandinavia, where I'm familiar. We may be much more like Italy in this regard. But it is a complete scandal that we have a system that leads to the death of many parents who are pensioners. The present system works against the families of pensioners, the cohesion of them, and it increases isolation in pensional patients that children have to leave home at 18 years of age. Loneliness is a major problem in the world and especially in the Western world. For example, in Britain there has been a special Ministry to Fight Loneliness. In fact, it can be said that the privacy of the family and the home, as shown in the bill, has to be directed from the home by a pensioner. The Lawgiver is certainly to ensure immunity from family and household. This is how it is being cut off, by segregating families in various ways. It simply doesn't work out that the families of pensioners have to expel their children from their home at 18 years of age because of losing income. It can also be noted that the bill suggests that household chores are not affected by a child living in a parent's home until he is 21 years old. It is already in the scope of Regulation, but it requires that a child be fully educated. Hence, this is merely a suggestion that household chores do not interfere until at least 21 years of age, regardless of whether a child is in school, so that it becomes clear. Rule number two. The bill suggests that parents of an individual aged 20How and who are in full - time education or training do not seem to have financial funds from a home or an arrangement for housing or food expenses. It's a rule of course. There are many individuals, probably most of those in Iceland, who live at home with their parents, and from house to house today, there is no chance that individuals of this age will be able to buy homes and get on their feet for themselves. This is usually the poorest social group, pensioners, and it simply does not work out that home satisfaction is limited when a child is nearly 18 years old and is not taken into consideration when children are studying. This would be easy, and it would show that governments, social security, well - being society, view strong family ties as something important, especially in pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u79	President. This case is one of many leading to the council that shows how faulty our system is in this category. There is nothing more complex than that. This plays straight into the top language. A secretary of finance who always tries to convince everyone that money needs to be cut down here and there until the money goes to the most needed. But these are literally separating people and families in order to get money to the most needed people, the same people, just the same people. To keep the money that is entitled to the person, he simply needs to throw other people out of the house; he needs to throw them out of the house to get the money to the highest level. A minister speaks of the need to get to the most needed, when he should simply let go of such confusion so that people can get exactly what they have to be entitled to as individuals because of the circumstances in which they live, regardless of whom they choose to live or live, simply because they are family members. There's nothing more complicated than that. I think we really ought to, all classes--it was too late for this in my opinion--to sit down and say, "It doesn't work to have it like this anymore, it's so fucked up. It just doesn't work any more. We've been informed for quite a few years that the 69th grade is being broken. Social security law, which is a very simple article on how pensions get up from year to year in order to keep up with inflation or pay. This article is not complicated. But for 20 years it has been interpreted as an interpreter that these pension rights should only be raised as the Ministry of finance predicts inflation or pay development in the coming year, not every pay development or inflation, but just as predicts. This projection has led to the conclusion that pensions are about 50 to 560% lower than he should be, i.e. This should increase it by 50 to 560 percent in order to achieve the level of pay that has been under the last two decades compared to what has been done. He has managed to follow inflation, and just a little more than that which is blessed. But there's a difference in salary development. This is one example of how the system, in spite of very clear legalities, is interpreted to avoid having to live up to the commitments we would expect as lawgivers to be calculated correctly. But the lyrics are simply taken, and they are turned out of it, so they don't have to pay that much money. There's not enough money to go along with pay development, it's impossible, says the Ministry of finance. What does the Ministry of Social Affairs say? Nothing. Despite the fact that these laws are under the custody of the Department of Social Affairs, it has nothing to say how these amounts are calculated, how the amount develops that falls under the law that the Minister of Social Affairs is responsible. Social Affairs receives that amount from the Ministry of finance, which is in charge of this interpretation. That's amazing, because we don't have what's called a multiorganized government. Rather, each minister is just a king of his kingdom, and we literally control everything in his own business - except this. When it comes to money. You see, it's very strange. While they are responsible for the implementation of legal laws made by law, the Minister of Ministers of Social Affairs, or Ministers of Health or Education is not economic independence. We receive bills at the General Assembly and discuss them here in a speech chair and read them out. These are the others and these rights we're giving people, and it's gonna cost them and that much as we plan. What, then, is the cost plan? The Ministry of Economics simply decides to interpret the law in the other way or in this way so that the amount is just somehow what they think it should be, especially in the example of 69 C.E. Social Security Act. It is not the Minister who is responsible for the law that interprets these laws and calculates the amount that lies behind them, but the minister of finance, the Ministry of finance. This is true despite the fact that each minister should be king of his kingdom. Of course, a social minister should be responsible for the interpretation of these laws, but he won't, will not. That's very spes. It's a passage in all these laws that has to do with all this system, as shown in the bill we're talking about here. There's that flaw in it. Because people are 18 years old, they're going to be a certain age, and all of a sudden they're becoming a financial sponsor to the pensioner, which is ridiculous. It is individuals who choose to share their lives or who have to do so. But no, if they have to, we decide to take that money because otherwise we're giving someone money that he doesn't need. Amazing, isn't it? This is one of the clearest problems in this system, the official literally disintegrating people who want and/or who need to live together because of family ties. That, in my opinion, is really bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He somehow put it in such a way that it was a hostile system and that the social security system did not serve its clients. I'd like to ask him a very simple question. Now, a group of people have contributed this bill to improve the welfare system. We had a case earlier, which allows us to fix a little noise on the social security system for payment on pensioners who live abroad. They're fragile, better off, and no big deal. This is a small matter in the context of the government and a large context of the budget and administration of the state. But this is a big deal for the pensioners. Has a what? A senator's opinion of this or an explanation of the fact that a case is being presented at the fourth and fifth times, two or three times in the same matter, which is a small improvement in the welfare system? There are members of Congress who are self-credulous, who have been reformed, and who have information about and knowledge about the system that other senators don't have, and who want to improve the system. How is it that these matters do not pass through committees and are not approved at the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an enormous question, for that is the great secret here at the council. The People's Council operates in such a way that the election is after the election. Some people decide that a rat will get together and take more parts - take more parts, I say this on purpose - and control the agenda from a to the next. There are consequences. It simply means that all non-employment issues, especially the executives - they have just decided that this will work -- that the council will not. They simply put them under the table and do not even look at them. No matter how good an idea it might be, it is not even an attempt to set matters straight. I made a case during the last assembly, which had members of all categories. This was a very simple change that allows young men to practice archery because it is strictly under law now, at least in general, using an arc. All classes agreed that this was an obvious flaw, but the bill did not go further because, after all, the government is often trying to set up very controversial issues and to set them up, the people who take more part simply to negotiate with some minor change that people would accept to release some members of the council. [[The president calls.]] It does not matter whether they are good or not, nor does it matter just what people choose. [[The president calls.]] Then it's usually one, two cases at the council, good-bye. [[The president calls.]] We've got a code system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Is it that way if it happened? A senator would have set up his archery case if he had received credit for it and could win the next election and the more Congress would fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u83	Something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u84	Is it really best for us in the Gang of the People, who want to repay our social security system, to beat them to a greater extent so that he can take credit? Would it be our case, regarding the transfer of foreign-country pensioners in the world, better come from some chair or government so that the people's party would not be able to say to their next campaign: Hey, we made you think you don't have to pay for a foreign transfer? Could the grand privilege of this matter lead to the collapse of the government issue? But couldn't the handler part simply say, "We supported that good thing, please continue? " Is this the mattress, so I get it right? I haven't studied the archery language yet. A senator, but I never know unless I supported it. [[Up front.]] But I'm just trying to figure out as a new senator that it doesn't matter how good the Senate business is, as long as they don't come from the right person, i.e. The administrative part, the majority of the council, will not get them started. In my earlier discussion, I noticed that a case was now presented in a government contract, whether it was about a human rights institution or something. In other words, the next election needs to take place, the matter could come into the next constitution, i.e. That insurance agencies should pay for foreign payment, which is a fundamental and landmark matter in the history of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-02-45.u85	A respectable president. It's pretty exactly like this. Hv. paritaprevir Tómas A. Tómasson is in the archery business with me, which is a great honor to me. I was, for example. with three cases at the last council, and, in fact, more. I had a case that suggested that there is no need for electronic access to annual accounts at the highest level. Tourism, industrial and innovation ministers came through the council. I had a case on the death of empty laws, which some ministers took into their own cause and came through. I also had a case of accepting a third optional United Nations Children's Convention, which was included in the successful bill of Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. These are all the cases that I had been in for quite some time, and the government took in the bills and that's how they went through. We have repeatedly made adjustments in budgets and so on. It is very memorable for me to remember that when you dropped clearance for high school to take money from students, and then they get less money. They forgot to come across to make up for that. Except, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson had seen this, and he drove in an adjustment proposal for the amount that the Ministry had already said would cost. There was foot and footwork at the council, where the administrative body could not agree to vote for this 300 billion. K. The money the Ministry said was missing. It had to create a new arrangement that could not be equal to 250 million, which we have no idea whether it was working or not, this decrease in education budget, very remarkable. [[The president calls.]] It's all like this and it sucks. It doesn't have to be this way. It's the decision of those who take over to do it this way.
