ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u1	A respectable president. I come up here this third time, unfortunately, to call attention to the serious situation that exists, which is that governments refuse to comply with the law and provide information to the council that the Senate has requested. I wished that this was the last time I wanted a president to intervene in order to ensure the respect of the council, and I claimed that he would. The situation today is that governments still refuse to hand over their citizenship applications to the council, along with the data they are required to follow. They refuse, and ministers appear in the media, repeatedly confirming their refusal. So I direct that question to the highest level. President: What's the news?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u2	Madam President. I want to come up here and make sure this is a very serious situation. Let us consider matters that are important, though they may be important, and we realize that here we are faced with the fact that one of the State's institutions is violating the law, defending that the Council can fulfill its legal duties. For this reason, it seems that this subsidiary has the support of its own ministers, but here other ministers have flocked to the platform and have declared this unacceptable. I wondered what position we have in the High General if we are now in a position on this matter. Laws are broken. We, the General, do not seem to have options. The government's leader seems to have no alternative but to come up here in a speech chair and express his disapproval of the situation. This, Madam President, is an unacceptable situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u3	A respectable president. I might mention in this context that the General and Education Committee agreed to ask the Minister for his appointment to discuss this matter, to explain the government's conduct on the council. The minister will not be able to appear before the committee for less than two weeks. Meanwhile, tens of the individuals in absolute uncertainty about their future, about permission to stay on the land in safety and on the rest of the world. There's an absolute standoff here. The government will answer no further, for these data will be received when they are suitable according to their ideas and ministers, and they will not have time to address their attitude toward the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u4	A respectable president. Not all nonsense is the same. When I first heard that the council was being denied their right to get answers, I thought it was false news, I didn't believe it. I just couldn't believe it was like that. Perhaps the explanation for the government and the need to be modern - day. They may not know that it is for the mail service. Of course, a minister might also send the secretary's car to get this information. If this information is available then it must be possible to get it here. The question is, doesn't the government want it? And then you ask, "Why not? " What is it that the government is hiding over there? There must be something very serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u5	A respectable president. I think there's good reason to come up here and mention this, too, and agree with it as a matter of course. Senators have been talking about. It's not just the government side that calls for some kind of information. Here, the prime minister has clearly expressed himself that the council is entitled to information and that the authority must be carried out on request. Secretary of finance has. The president of the Council has agreed that the matter needs to be settled. The head of the General and Education Committee is also of the opinion that this must be done, simply because it takes a ministry and an institution, or a minister, and an institution, has authority that it doesn't have. You may wonder: " What can I say of Aldulis's strategy at the time of this situation? I think it's very strange that it's like this day after day. There are no answers to what to take. We're still stuck in some massage here in this room with the executives when the law is completely clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u6	A respectable president. First, I'd like to agree with the members of the council who have called themselves silent. I'm on the General and Education Committee, Vice President 1 and I have to say I'm completely speechless over this. What seems to be going on here is that an agent went to the Ministry on behalf of a hearing on a payment of civil rights at the U.S. National Institute, a government therapy agency, and it's not for the General. It seems that the Ministry of Justice and the Foreign Institute are confusing administrative procedures with the preparation of a case under the administration and the preparation of a case for the General Assembly. It seems that the Ministry of Justice does not understand the difference. You're reading a newspaper secretary about some VIP therapy for the Generals and he's comparing it to the management of the National Institute of Iceland. It's just a completely different thing. We need these applications by two reviews, from a police officer in the district where the person is staying, as well as a review from the Foreign Institute. [[The president calls.]] That's enough. It's a matter of Miss United States respect and nothing else.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u7	Madam President. During the last few weeks, we have actually witnessed the coup of an institution that receives an invitation from a minister to shun the Allied Council and Law. A council is prevented from carrying out what the law says must be done by the Council. I've previously come up here and challenged the General and Education Committee to advertise the applications, to advertise and encourage those candidates who returned their applications in the autumn to send all the information directly to the General Assembly. Of course, the U.S. National Institutes of Foreign Affairs should legally submit a review and report from the police offices in the vicinity of the applicant's area. That's under the law. At the very least, it is not possible to prevent the need for information directly from the candidates. [[The president calls.]] I got it. I got it. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u8	Madam President. Hv. All council members. It's all about a lot more than just citizenship applications. It's become a matter of breaking laws. They're disrespecting the General Assembly. They're disrespecting over a century old traditions and laws about what we can do. I'm afraid that if we let this go on, for example, it could. Secretary of finance began talking to the tax and saying, "Ah no, we only have 5% tax on this for a year, although the law says something else. It's nothing different. If such disrespect continues to exist in regard to the General Assembly and what we are doing here and the law we put in, I think there's nothing more to it than to express distrust of the local minister. It's the illusion we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u9	Madam President. Because it's important how we say things, I just want to mention the slight that involves that the Minister of Justice, or the Minister of Justice, as he is certain to be today, call it a course of VIP therapy that the General of the Council take a part of the Civil Rights application. It may be this way in the independent world that this is a quick treatment for a free friend, but, in fact, the hosting of civil rights by law from the World Council of Gravitation for people who do not meet the strict conditions of the law and yet are required for civil rights. We are talking in vastly much about refugees who are unable to demonstrate birth certificates or other documents necessary under the law, which have had to rely on community financial support or anything else, resulting in the administration of the Foreign Institute for Human Rights. [[The president calls.]] This is not a VIP treatment. [[The president calls.]] This is a treatment for humanity. And that the Minister is holding his applications and refusing to hand over to the council is wickedness. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u10	A respectable president. I'd like to state as to what the Minister calls the VIP Route at the General Assembly that it may well be that there's a faster trial here, but it just doesn't matter. This has no effect on the treatment of the Foreign Institute. The thing that's under here is that the Minister and Foreign Institute want to force a change in the law. We can talk about it. There's a double system going on, one on the other hand, a citizen's right to the Foreign Institute and the other at the General Assembly. The Ministers and Foreign Institutes clearly want to force a change in the law, and this is their methodology for doing so, not turning in the data requested by the General Assembly, according to 51 st. Act of Congress. The U.S. National Institute is breaking Congress, to be absolutely clear, and this methodology used is a complete scandal. There's been talk here about the grammatical discussion, I'm challenging the highest. Minister of Justice, or is it Minister of Internal Affairs now? "to consider this matter before the committee or here in the Hall of Congress, let's see who has the prize there and what to do in this matter. What to do is return these references right away, these data with references and applications already. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u11	A respectable president. I would like to make the nation's health my speech today. Health is not only physical but also spiritual and social. The pandemic has opened the eyes of all of us to the importance of human health, but studies clearly show that those in good health are far less likely to develop serious epidemics as well as major social factors in the community that are closely related to our health outcomes. The reason I mention it here is about the importance of maintaining healthy people. Our health - care system is with the best in the world, but it is primarily from dealing with problems when the damage is done and from the lack of health - related measures in society. Our main experts agree on this. Our competitiveness and well - being are based on our ability to change the system, to increase health and prevention, thus creating a basis for healthy society. Strive in the government Treaty to the very area of human health, which says, by permission of the president: It is a common nation's interests, economics and social interests that put an extra emphasis on human health, prevention, and mental health. Madam President. Let's put Iceland's health first. Let us secure the objective of public health policy that Iceland will become one of the most healthy people in the world. Let us do this with cooperation and begin for the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u12	A respectable president. The weekend's news discussed the use of antihyperglycaemic medicinal products and continued to increase. More people in this country are diagnosed with diabetes 2 and are also used to treat overweight. Anti-hyperglycaemic medicinal products are increased for the treatment of diabetes 2 and have almost doubled in number of users since 2015. By then, nearly 9,000 had become more than 16,000 in 2021. The discussion of overweight is difficult. Of course, health cannot be measured merely by looking at pounds and numbers in weight. A person may be in good health despite a few extra pounds. We know that there are other factors, but the inevitable fact is that overweight can contribute to diabetes. All too often, instead of focusing further on prevention, we are responding to consequences. Research shows that the growth in diabetics in this country is comparable to that of the United States 20 years ago. International studies have also shown that the increase in diabetes is distributed over the entire age of adults and is increased in both genders. People suffering from addiction to food and need help to solve their problems. We need to build a powerful system in which the goal is to help people in a real way. Medicinal products and surgical intervention must not be the first choice. We need to treat people with respect and unprejudicedness and give them the services and support they need in order to reach their goals. As a nation, we need to examine ourselves. What causes the people to gain weight with associated complications? It is important that health supplies and improved public health are supported by governments and health care, especially health care, continue to be an active part of that work. We're doing well in the system, but we need to do better. We need to focus more on prevention, which is the most important factor. Only in this way can we expect results.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u13	A respectable president. In 2019, a 49 - year - old man suffered a stroke in 2019, a fully functioning man with family and children. Today, he has spent more than a year in a wheelchair and has had three operations. Everywhere, he comes to a closed door. He hasn't had any farm planning yet. He's brought in with his father, an elderly man who can't care for him. This is Iceland today, a respectable president, completely shut down on him, everywhere run on walls. He doesn't score high enough for the social system. He only gets six points out of ten and that's the minimum. I wondered, " How many points do you score when you're in trouble and in a wheelchair and can't save yourself? ' And another thing, he had less than 7 million. K. ... ingraduated. He is also overheat hair to be disabled, to be in a wheelchair, and to obtain normal household planning. The good news is, a respectable president, that later today we will speak for the bill for the legalization of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. If that contract had been established earlier, as it has been called repeatedly, it would be impossible for any government, whether social or government, here at the High General Assembly, to throw down the prayer of disabled individuals asking us for help. We must be glad that this case, on the legal basis of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, is scheduled today and that I am measuring it today because the government has said that it is indeed going to embrace this contract during the season. Well, it's 4 years, actually, and that's a respectable president, not waiting for anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u14	Madam President. Despite my considerable concern, on the one hand by the inability of the government to suppress our old enemy, the inflation, the cow, and the other by the unsurpassed position of what the cold areas of the country are in order of energy in this same government, which in four and a half years has not been able to decide for a joint whether to come or go, and then to go where, in the course of this seminary group, I decided to use this minute of mine to discuss sports. For example, during the past decade, Icelandic athletes have regularly called attention to their poor economic and rights status. So I was happy when the General agreed during the last few days of my concierge to hide the minister of the seminar to shape a comprehensive focal point for athletes. The course is to be timed together with what will be guaranteed financial support for dignitaries. The secretary received a message from the General's Council to submit the policy on June 1 of this year. Today, we have four months to go. That's not a long time. So I was pleased to hear Daðason Ejadsson, director of sports, declared on Channel 2 during the days that he had started his work assigned to him by the General Assembly. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest power. To the honor of a cabinet minister so that the Council of the Council shall have the desired policy, the ambitious course for the summer, for our dignitaries, for the children and young people of this country who are involved in sports, and for the Icelandic national soul.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u15	Madam President. The Secret Bank is now 2%. If the interest on the bank's mortgage was proportionate to control growth, for example. In May 2019, they should now be 2.7% but are about 4.2% and will likely go up. Haven't the banks had enough from the homes of the country? Is there no requirement for community responsibility for bank owners and rulers? Are they just completely free of charge and always able to carry out the sacred interest demand of investors? Who decided that home was a resource they could abuse? When was the people asked if they were content to be the source of wealth for a select group of investors? Of course not! We're all here at the Council and we're all going to work for the people. But what is the government doing for the people and for the homes in today's condition? Nothing, exactly nothing. She's sitting by and acting like it's none of her business. As if their homes were nothing more than banks' hunters, there they had an unlimited greeting to be overfished already to increase their astronomy profits. Two of the three banks are still in the majority estate of the state. The government is responsible and cannot hide it. How can a ten - million - dollar business generally be justified? It is the government's right to defend the legal rights of their homes against this persecution. But no, she's decided to stand by and sacrifice them again. At least 15,000 families lost their homes after the last collapse. Is that supposed to happen again? The people's party requires that the government defends homes against rising housing costs and uses owners' authority on the banks, that they take hold of the defenseless homes of the land, which in no way can be justified. Her responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u16	President. Given reasons: One of the main characteristics of the Icelandic government is the so - called trigraphy of the state's competent authority, execution and judicial authority. According to point two. The Constitution of Iceland's Parliament and President shall take legal authority together, the president and other governments will submit to the execution and the legal court. The idea of trilocation of the State has often been attributed to the French 18th - century statesman Montesquieu, writing of ways to control government in order to reduce the risk of violence and emotional government. Various exports exist on this concept, including the directive that we live in, often called Congress, which is the rule that the government can only support the Council's legislation. It's the lawgiver's job to make songs. The executives of the European Commission oversee the implementation of the project, but their authority is governed by the law. This is important. On the responsibility of a minister of the administrations, N.P., N.P., N.P., N.P., N.P., N., N. 4 of 1963, on ministerial responsibility. According to point two. The law of the minister's responsibility may be required by a minister, as it is further recommended in the law for any work he has been guilty of if the matter has grown to such an extent that he has either deliberately or is a major incompetently opposed to the republic's constitution, other laws, or otherwise put the interests of the State at risk. According to Article 9. The law of Ministers matters the responsibility of the Minister of the Law if he causes any violation against laws other than its laws by performing or causing any action against the law or by leaving any action required by law or by causing such action to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u17	A respectable president. The index price for consumption is now 5.7%. I have repeatedly expressed my concern about inflation development and increasing inflation in unsubstantiated queries to the highest degree. Secretary of finance last year, but the highest. As for the financial minister, I now share my concern that the inflation monster has woken up and started with the related increases on the banks of people's apartment loans. It seems that he and the government are not threatened by inflation. Annual prices have been measured 5.7% and appears to be increasing and stable. It's 3.7% without housing teams. A group of people have provided a bill that recommends decommissioning of the price-proof housing bar once and for all. Those who have insurance mortgages are the ones who have the worst in our society. They have these loans because of a good price. It's the people who take these loans and have to take them because that's all there is to it. No, the government puts its head into the trap of inflation, saying that it does not see or worry about inflation. There's a clear message to people about the government that won't do anything for their homes. No, all for the good companies, but nothing for the homes or young people who are looking forward to financial failure and losing their homes and eventually ending up in a check - market and health - related facility, as happened after the collapse of the bank. Since insurance is not physical law but human work, it is not a matter of the government to freeze it or to take the mortgage out of the index. No, the family who sees that there is no way to pay a huge amount of money from their loans is not at the same service as the companies. No, they will have some to pay, and if they escape from the pledge and in their own housing, they will also pay the rising prices they cannot control or eat what is out of the government's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u18	Madam President. A new Ministry today, February 1st, and a new board of directors. The cable and the two new departments are a means of careful, extensive assistance of employees, delays, and costs. That's what it said. Secretary of finance recently at the council, by permission of the President: It's clear that by starting a new Ministry, more than one, the cost will be at hand and it can run at hundreds of millions. His own answer is now available; the cost will be at least 1.8 billion. Not a few hundred million, but about 2 billion, and that cost can be even higher. 2 billion cables are spinning, as we all know in this room, not about investing in people, and not based on analyses of needs or investments in infrastructure. He's about investing in progress. Sometimes it helps to put these numbers in context, and I'm gonna put the palaces the government's building itself in relation to the halls now spoken of a little about in connection with the success of Iceland's handball. No Icelandic gymnasium meets today the criteria set out in international contests. The handball and basketball have been on the other hand, even before playing national games in foreign lands. The report by the National Stadium for Sports, dated September 2020, contains a cost analysis showing that a palace for 5,000 audiences would cost about 6.3 billion, a palace for 8,600 audiences about 7 billion. After the amazing success of the boys in handball, the dream of going even further to a big tournament in front of them. A new palace should be like that, but it is not. In the meantime, we may have to be content that we are likely world champions of a number of advisers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u19	A respectable president. Tonight's program will feature the television news program Hick, but the program's subject to the introduction of sexual misconduct, especially sexual offenses. In it, Dr. Fjóla Antonsdóttir notes that the peripheral rights that the Icelandic justice system offers have a very bad effect on people. It's time to change this and give them more rights in their own business. You see, as soon as a sexual transgression occurs, the rights of the guilty witness is not really granted to any rights in the process that begins at that time. This even hides. in particular that the subject is not able to get any information on the progress of the study or the development of the challenge procedure. The survival of broken resistance is that nothing is going on and that it is completely kept out of its own matters. As a parent who was a minor when she accused of sexual misconduct, I can truly agree that the present system made us lose all religion in Icelandic legal systems. The program points out that the legal rights of a nation's nation are far weaker than in most parts of the North and that they are calling for us in here to do much better. So it is my strong hope that we, who are sitting here at the council, and particularly those members of the Parliament who sit on the General and Education Committee, will join together on the opposite side to ensure increased failures in their affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u20	A respectable president. Somebody's going to the top. The government of Iceland taking responsibility for the economic situation today? Is there any ability? Do people trust to recognize economic error? 400 billion dollars, that is the amount of money the home in the country has owed for the economic benefits of this government, which waited too long to take decisive action when Covid struck. She trusted officials in the Secret Bank to save her cases and to step in with a general stimulus during a time of specific offenses, measures that have expanded property markets, and markets for people's homes. This development was anticipated, but now it is time to meet the highest respondents. Governments in the media, claiming to be powerless to the inflation, to do little. Take responsibility for the situation. These are the consequences of action, or rather, the lack of work. Minister. In becoming a decade, the economy in this country has been controlled by more and less of the same categories. They have failed the people of the country at a housing market, and the crisis has deteriorated quite seriously because of the fear of these governments during the first - century serious operation of government funds. This Creole bitch now bites pretty hard on the people of the country. There are interest increases, with a rate of 6% inflation, but this is an inflation of the government. It is not justified that her economic failures cause distress among vulnerable groups. V.E.G. The government needs to see, rid itself of charges, and engage in emergency operations in the form of interest reforms, child repairs, and rent payments. There are people out there who don't have time to wait for the vague promises of future reforms that have been cast aside for a decade.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u21	Madam President. The government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, does not support the ban on nuclear weapons. Surprisingly, that is the answer I received from the minister of foreign affairs earlier this winter. I asked: Is plans for the government to sign Iceland and validate a ban on nuclear weapons? The answer was unusual on the part of a minister: No. No, there is no such plan for the government. This contract for which the ICAN was fought and won the Nobel Peace Nóbel is probably one of the most important steps toward the world's nuclear disarmament today. 86 states have signed it, 56 states have validated it. Iceland isn't gonna be part of that group because we're in NATO. Instead, the government points to a so - called NPT deal, which is from 1968, about not distributing nuclear weapons and is all on the basis of nuclear powers. They sent out a declaration about recent years in which they urged that we would not let everything into cold charcoal and end up in a nuclear war, an empty blade from countries that want to continue to destroy billions in their own nuclear weapons and not dream of putting them down. At the same time as in the same answer from the Secretary of State, it was stated that the government is not even going to attend the Member States meeting of the Treaty on the ban on nuclear weapons. Although not signing, the secretary - general of the United Nations has encouraged all the kingdoms of the world to arrive at least. This morning we received an e-mail for this contract where we were told that a member of the treaty meeting would be postponed. It was meant to be in March, but it will be in May or June because of Covid. I encourage the government to revise their position at this meeting because this attitude is based on the reasons for nuclear powers, not on peace. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u22	. A respectable president. Why don't we just talk about the Versailles store? Complete brilliant factors that place us so thoroughly in the past that we are even looking at a linear routine again. It is good to review the spirit of today and to see how much our community has developed. We took the important step of allowing the beer, not because we want everyone to wear beer all the time, but because the government has to trust its citizens more for its own well - being than it did. No longer do we spread cigarette smoke on our children, and drinking teenagers is much less a problem today. There have been more radical public health advances, since the ragged hair is history, and the wrinkles have almost disappeared and hopefully never come back. We smile at foolish dresss, laugh at harsh characteres, throw the spirits lightly at being no longer so bursy and lummos, and at the same time, we are full of nostia and past desires for the programs, for it is part of our history. However, the factors also show an unhealthy relationship between politics and commerce, with the interests of few people more prominent than the interests of the common people. So as soon as we smile and miss, let's bear in mind that the environment they show is not just past but present. The frequent trend is indeed gone, but the political trend and reality are still there. Decades later, the government groups still hold a fierce stand for privileges and enormous gains, which, in the fullest sense, are caught in troll and countries in their bank accounts without the payment of the nation's normal market fees. It is no less a defense when it comes to the constitution of a proper resource policy that ensures that not just a few of us but our own interests. The tabernacle shows the birth of this injustice. It's for us in this room to destroy it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u23	A respectable president. Last week, a young woman described her heartbreaking experience in a 65 - week waiting for a sexual correction procedure. Worse yet, there was no indication of when the procedure will take place and therefore no way to predict the end of the wait. This story is not unique. As the situation is now, 20 people are waiting for a sexual correctional action at a land hospital, and little movement has been in the waiting lists for the past two years. We are to listen to a series of people who have experienced peripherality and neglect in the health system and who are experiencing impaired service in a pandemic situation today. Madam President. Of course, we know that the epidemic has affected the work of the Land Hospital, and many are in the position of waiting for action beyond the norm. Still, this is an unacceptable situation, for these measures are vital, and they should be prioritised accordingly. The Chairman of Trans Iceland has proposed to the Land Hospital and the government to revise the priorities of sexual correction because these unpredictable waits prevent people from living fully and feel safe in their own bodies. Having to wait in uncertainty for years has serious consequences to people's mental well - being and quality of life, and we need to work this out. In view of this discussion, I sent the highest. The health minister's request for a written reply about waiting for sex correction procedures and is sincerely hoping that the priorities of these vital measures will be reviewed promptly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u24	President. The ability to have a baby is not a self - righteous thing. This is difficult for many, and technology often needs assistance. The system around technology is much improved, and I think with great sympathy for all those who were once in a painful struggle to have a child without the knowledge and technology we now enjoy. But there is still need to reevaluate this system so that the government is more helpful than a stumbling block to people who simply want to nurture their lives. For bad reasons, for example, the law forbids the administration of artificial embryos, although both sperm and eggs are permitted. In addition, persons wishing to have assisted reproductive techniques should be enrolled in confirmed or married couples. At separation, the same people are forbidden to use their developing embryo, even if they still want to have the baby or are agreed to have either one of them use the embryo. President. I disagree that these rules need to be held. The government is not to use this central control but to trust people in making a family their own way. Rules are primarily meant for people and must be considered in the rhythm of a new era. For a long time, it was forbidden that a woman's sister could give her eggs, and homosexuals had limited rights to have children. Both of us probably feel blessed today, but that was not the case. So I've started work here at the council to review the points I've mentioned and other aspects of this link and will look to the U.S. Congress on conversation and support the changes in progress, to take further steps in increasing freedom and support for people who want to have children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u25	Madam President. Recently, we were informed by members of the Parliament that the president of the United States agreed to a request. The minister of culture to transfer a government accountant to a new Ministry and Ministry Department office. This is done, according to a general report, on the basis of Article 36. the law on the rights and duties of the officers of the state. Under the Mosaic Law, a government appointed by an official may agree that he will move to another government, where he would wish it to be ruled. If we look at the report from the appointment of the staff law, it makes it clear that it is a matter of permission to transfer a person from one office to another, even if the office has two ministers. Two Ministers - This matters. Let's be absolutely clear that Government Accounting is not part of the executive and a state accountant is not a minister. It is an independent surveillance agency that operates in the hands of the Generals, such as the emissary of the Generals. I'm going to allow myself to argue that this act is being abused by the 36th par. The staff song. No one would think a minister could, for example. Reaching to the realm of the judiciary, a judge picked himself up there and transferred to his Ministry, but the law also does not assume that a minister would stretch out to the realm of the legislature and its surveillance agencies and pick himself up there as an official. It is harmful to use the law in this way, and it is unannounced to pretend that the president of the Generals has some mastership over a government accountant, that the president agrees to transfer him to the Ministry. A state accountant is independent of his work, he is a confidence worker of the Generals, the whole of the Generals. He is elected by the General Assembly and will be removed only with the approval of the Generals. There's been a very dangerous example here, and I object to it. It's against a tributary state power. This is disrespectful of the General Assembly, and for the surveillance agencies of the Generals, and we in this hall can't be silent about this. [[The president calls.]] We can't. [[The president calls.]] This needs to be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u26	Madam President. It may be after the point that we're starting about 20 minutes later because in climate, we're behind schedule, whether in Iceland or in the whole world. No state of the world has done enough. No state of the world has taken action early enough. Not all of them, however, are lost. And so I don't just start off with the negatives, I may at least commend the highest. Minister here at the beginning. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - This is what happens. It is so, as it often happens by a declaration of policy, that the government's partnership is a little too vague, with only overtime action in many places. I was, for example. I was happy to see that the government was not going to issue any license for oil in the economic history, under the Treaty, but it gave me a little scratch on how it was going to do so, whether it was going to contribute a bill or not. Then a minister would just answer by enforcing the puzzle that he was going to present a bill. Well done, more like this. Yet, the big questions remain unsolved. What the overall policy of this government is on climate issues is not completely clear in this collaborative agreement between the classes. Yes, it is said that setting the independent national goal of emissions is 55% reduction, which is actually a little too small if we are to draw back the negative hat, it needs to be done better, but how exactly to do this is less vague. That's why I'd like to ask the Minister just a little bit of a little bit more about what's ahead. The first question is that of dealing with the United Nations organization because of the United Nations Climate Convention. Iceland, like the whole world, was spanked in Glasgow in the fall, we all spanked ourselves in that every state agreed that it had not been gone far enough in the upcoming national goals. That is why they would have to arrive, not five years later, as is customary according to the Paris convention, but immediately next year with new goals and better actions. You see, the Paris Convention assumes that such updates take place nine months before a meeting of the Member States. The next meeting will be in Smam El-Shikh 7 November, so the nine-month delay set by the United Nations will be due Monday. That is why the first question is: When will the government introduce an updated climate objective, as we were told to do, as we told ourselves to do in Glasgow in the fall? And what will that involve? Not only with the climate agreements but also with the European Union with which we are engaged. I hope the answer to the last part of this team is yes, whether the updated objective will be consistent with what is necessary to meet the Paris Convention's objective of maintaining warming within 1.5°C because 55% of the contraction is just not, it needs to be done better. To find out that the year 2040, which the government has set as a year of noncarbonization, although we still lack a definition of what it means, was very desirable, and this also appeared in Glasgow, to have some goal in the process of making sure that today's government would take action. Hence, the question is, Will a minister intend to legalize such a goal? We set up, for example. ... toin my climate bill to establish a 70% recession target in 2030, so people have something to focus on. But if not, how will the government ensure that these goals will be achieved? Then there are all the tools needed to achieve this; climate change, climate assessment of other policies, such as financial and transport investments, and so on. These are all purses that have already passed through the hands of some of us senators without being measured by new climate goals. When can we expect this to be revised? And this is the right thing about the sausage end: won't the Minister be sure to secure the arrival of young people on all these policies? [[The president calls.]] It is also key, especially in such a country as ours, where the society of young people has drawn the wagon in this discussion over the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u27	A respectable president. The climate is our greatest challenge today, so it is fitting to discuss it frequently and long at the General Assembly. As soon as I'm grateful for the voter, I'm sorry. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, for the initiative to attend, I want to state that I will approach the discussion in such a way that before turning to answering the questions that are especially addressed to me, I feel that a brief discussion of the bigger picture is necessary. The government focuses on climate, as is reflected in the government covenant. The climate management programme is in effect and is being prepared to ensure the implementation of the measures set out there to ensure that governments achieve their objectives in this major project. Despite the very good and noble objectives of climate, today we live in an environment where electricity is flying. It even appeared. in that because of the bad water years, producers cannot deliver the sources of electricity to those who have purchased less energy than they need. As a result, in the case of a fish - producing factory, 20,000,300,000 tons of oil must be burned to drive them. If we put this into context, there are 30,000 tons of oil by 20% of all the oil vessels used in 2020 and about 11.5% of all the oil use by automobiles in Iceland 2020. It has been suggested that this is equivalent because the results of reducing emissions from automobiles through the electrical vehicles of the Icelanders between 2010 and today are disappearing because of these circumstances. At the end of the month, there is a decline in telecommunications, which are the buyers of limited energy. This important service uses 1% of Iceland's electricity. If we take the Power Company of the West, for example, it will be necessary to burn oil in order to burn up houses on the West. Air emissions are multiplied by switching to oil, while the head of Powerburg Westfjorded in a news report in RUS today estimated that emissions will be about 9,800 tons in the next few months, usually 800 tons. The same is true of other people who have bought less energy. So I think our main mission today is not to talk about what we're going to do in climate but to do what needs to be done to achieve our goals. There, my emphasis is on actions that make sure that the foundation that all our actions and plans rest on is strong. If the energy exchange is to produce the desired results, green energy must be available. That is a fact that cannot be overlooked. There's no time to waste. In this context, it should be noted that during the next few weeks, I intend to provide two prime products that are aimed at improving the efficiency of the activation and the resulting energy saving. But that's what they're talking about. In the leading of COP26, Member States were encouraged to introduce up-to-date climate goals and announced to Iceland about the updated objective of the contract in February 2021. The aim was 55% total reductions in emissions of greenhouse gas in 2030 compared to 1990 by EU and Norway. In the Treaty of the New Government, Iceland produced an independent target of 55% reduction in emissions of Iceland's direct responsibility in 2005. Today, there is an upbuilding and adapting of climate practices to this new goal. The work will be done in good collaboration with rural society, employment and economics, and I have submitted to my Ministry to map and set out a consultation plan for the next month. The Icelandic government is not about to make a decision regarding further update on the climate target. A further analysis of potential new and updated measures must be made in such a announcement how the countries will achieve this result. In terms of the common objective of EU and Norway, Iceland does not promote the one-sided objective of the agreement, but the countries share responsibility for contracting in accordance with the rules and agreements. It is evident that Iceland's aims will be about 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and noncarbon share anyway, and that Iceland will be independent of fossil fuels in 2040 if national goals are ambitious. Iceland, on the other hand, is one of the countries that are planning to drag the bus into the battle against climate addiction, but it is clear that the cooperation of all the countries depends on making sure that global warming is maintained within 1.5°C. In June of last year, the aim of a non-carbon object was no later than that of 2040 at the General Assembly. It puts Iceland in a group of few countries that have legalized such goals. As we have seen, the development of action plans in climate change to the objective of the government is under way. This work hides even in terms of improving the effectiveness of measures as well as the target for emission contractions. Work is not too far off that it has been discussed with the legalization of destination goals. However, I can remind you that the common objective of Iceland with EU and Norway is due to participation in the country's joint contract targets has been legalized in climate-based legislation, No. 70/2012. In this target and rules, annual recessive targets are set for the direct responsibility of each State, where the maximum annual emissions clearances are set for every state over 2021/2030 and will take place, for the first time in 2020 because of 2021. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm sorry, but I don't get over answering these questions, which is just telling us we have to talk about this again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u28	Madam President. 90% of total emissions in the Icelandic economy are derived from a fifth industry of less than one quarter of production. The missions are the big projects. For example, they are in transportation, they are in land use, and they are involved in waste. Although 55% of the national target for emissions is a fine pay, there is much to suggest that this is not enough for us to fulfill our commitments and to do our part so that global warming will not exceed 1.5 °C in this century. You see, in recent years, in the last decade, under the government of Iceland, we have missed marvelous opportunities to implement a greenhouse gas emissions mitigation programme and we are now standing in 2022, 15 years after the definitive scientific evidence of the impact of greenhouse gas emissions and are considering the upcoming No. 2. We need to do so much better. Where is the government's investment plan? I ask. All investments, all public investments need to be green. They all need to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We also need to keep in mind this spring that all climate activities need to be work market operations. We need to maintain righteous transitions, ensure survival, new, good and green jobs, and counterwelvement measures so that the taxation of remuneration is not the primary burden to be carried in this country as a result of a reduction in emissions. Let's put the responsibility where she belongs. Let's stop the beantin and go to the big projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for the verbal vendetta and the highest. Minister for the discussion on this matter, which is very needed. In the Treaty of the present government, the most important objective of climate change is the ideologies of sustainable and righteous transitions and increased competitiveness as a result of the climate change. Government reports that its aims will be followed by an action plan on climate change. Iceland is to be at the head of international environmental policies, and we all have ambitions to achieve that goal, from classing garbage so as to be able to trust that when we light our ovens, we're not creating more carbon tracks than we want to leave behind in this life. We often boast that the electricity produced in this country comes almost exclusively from renewable energy sources. But is it certain that we can say the same thing after five years? Among the most important things in our struggle against climate is to keep us on the goal of electricity production that we drive only on renewable energy sources, both for jobs and for homes. There is reason to fear that we will now begin to bring back what we must do. The country's water supply is now such that land induction is not able to supply it with energy as necessary for companies and energy companies in the country. The situation today is that in the coming months, an energy farm of the West must burn thousands of gallons of oil for house - to - house heating. This is after Landactivation announced that it did not deliver electricity to buyers of less energy due to energy shortages. Do we want to be there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u30	A respectable president. The EEA's annual report on the EU due to the Kyoto Convention and the Paris Convention says: The Kyoto period ended 2020, it will be settled in the next year, in 2023. The Paris Convention began last year, 2021, and until 2030. In 1990, Iceland increased total greenhouse gas emissions by more than 30%. According to the Kyoto Treaty, Icelanders promised to reduce emissions by 20% in 2020 two years ago, compared with 1990. They increased by 30%. There's no chance of meeting Iceland's commitment to the Kyoto Convention, so we'll be clear on that. With regard to the Paris Treaty, we may have to buy billions of dollars of carbon emissions. And another thing about climate. Iceland's electricity production is green almost completely, 100%, but we're selling cultural certificates and 87% of Iceland's electricity are not green. It is made up of nuclear and carbon elements in accordance with EU regulations. This has an effect in Europe, resulting in producing carbon dioxide, which produces electricity, with Icelandic feathers. It increases greenhouse gas emissions in Europe, to be totally clear. Iceland is directly contributing to this and contributing to the European Union's mobilizing and working against climate targets. We can get this problem out. It is done even. this way. Iceland can do a lot of things in climates. That's where the energy exchange comes at at the top, and that's the generator. Iceland is incredibly late when it comes, far behind the Norwegians, far behind. [[The president calls.]] With the boat fleet, it's very limited that Iceland can do. [[The president calls.]] I've done my own research on the small boats, and it's simply very limited, and it's mainly on ferry cruises that something can be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u31	A respectable president. Young people's voices have rarely been as prominent as those associated with the climate crisis. I would still like to wonder here, though, if young people really get enough weight to participate in decision-making and policy development for their future. Most of us are familiar with the term green - washing, but in the context of climate operations, I wondered if we could talk about child washing, for although we've all heard the pleas for action, they haven't made up for the system changes that young people call for. Madam President. I'm not saying this country is in absolute station in climate. The aims of the national government's noncarbonization and aims for Iceland's independent emissions are certainly a major step, but now we start working to define what is involved in these objectives and which guard we put toward the future low-carbon society. These definitions will be the key to our real success in extracting emissions, as there is a large difference between non-carbonization, e.g. Considerations for land use or not. V.E.G. Ministers have placed much emphasis on energy exchanges, but these are just one area of the fight against climate. That fight is happening in every aspect of society. Madam President. The United Nations Climate Summit at Glasgow makes it clear that the active participation of young people in all areas of decision-making and climate policies is under way. It is important that we make sure that this participation is on the basis of young people's specific knowledge and not figuratively or passively. You see, we need to do more than just listen. We need to give young people a real place at the table because their future depends on the policies we conventions today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u32	A respectable president. Our differences between the government and the climate are that sometimes you feel that there is a lack of the connection between words and actions. I also miss the fact that the government deals with the entire context, for it is the most important thing to watch the big movie rather than be in that position to shape a point position each time. Energy exchange promise needs to be followed, e.g. how to ensure availability and how to contribute to the delivery of electricity. In this regard, it is necessary to strengthen the transport system itself. All the last terms, the Minister of Energy and Environment Ministers were held in hand. I don't think this position was due to lack of preparation or because there was no information about the situation. It was political. The arrangement of the administrations was simply a minor matter. For nine consecutive years, the independent party has controlled the energy issues. Nevertheless, today the government seems to be surprised at how the situation is on the transport system of electricity. An enterprise in the country has been living for a long time because of lack of adequate, reliable energy and the need to rely on oil. Whole areas have had the experience of not having secure access to electricity that meets the needs of households and businesses. Nevertheless, homes in the country use only about 5% of the electricity. The goal of the next 18 years is that we will first become nations to be completely rid of fossil fuels. This is a bold goal, a good goal, and can be achieved by clear ideologies, by explaining the responsibility of the parties, by implementing the marketing game, and by ensuring that the system works independently of the year. I think we can achieve these goals, but here would certainly help if the government could unite in the common ideologies, because that is the greatest weakness of this government, it can unfounded policy. But we are going to stay awake, support the government in good works, and give vigorous support when necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u33	Madam President. I'd like to thank you for the discussion here, but I think it's necessary that we nose in the context that we Icelanders have been doing a lot of things for a very long time, longer than most other countries, and especially so, The thermal industry was a natural change that occurred in these chemicals decades ago, and here we produced the highest energy share of renewable energy on groundwater. We produce here the greenest aluminum produced anywhere in the world. We must, I think, somehow get this discussion over to the fact that we're trying to solve the problems that must be solved by progress and development instead of looking forward to a more advanced plan and forced action. This will never be successful in the long run, for in times of trial the climate will be solved with progress and technology, not tax recovery and pressure. I just want to encourage the highest. Environment Minister and to give special commendation that the supreme case is already under way. Minister for the better use of the old inducers. I think it's extremely important, and it's simply amazing that the program was in such a way that speed limitation was in regard to such an update. I come up with further details in my second speech, but, as I say, we must try to bring this discussion closer to the real world. We'll see, for example. Just a front - page report this morning that says that climate anxiety has become an epidemic for young people. The epidemic of climate anxiety among young people is not likely to improve these issues, but not at all, on the contrary. [[The president calls.]] If so, we are not likely to find solutions and tools that will benefit us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u34	President. The propaganda has begun, the preparation for the country's bottom working is in full effect, starting with a fear - inspiring year for energy shortages. This is despite a reduction in energy consumption in recent years. In 2019 the use was reduced by 1.7%, 0.7% in large energy use and 4.7% in systemic use. Let us consider this in context when it comes to saying that there is a lack of energy here. I'm not minimizing the lack of energy in certain areas, but it's a distribution problem, not a manufacturing problem. It comes, for example. A third supply of energy to help or should make it secure and to ensure that governments provide security to homes and small companies of electricity, not big users. But is that what they're doing? No. It is not that even if oil is present, we should use it, or even if the river flows past it, we should activate it. It's not like that. We need to think about this in a larger context. In the context of the climate crisis, we in human society have never lived in temperatures other than what we know today, the 11,000 years since we started farming. At this temperature, we built cities, roads, practiced agriculture, built enormous monuments, a vast, vast community, a society that cannot stand the rise of the sea level in this century without costing us very much. It's easy to deny the problem. Change is so slow in our standards that temporary fluctuations can be blamed. The problem is, we got off late, and we don't see that the temporary fluctuations are wrong until it's too late. The solution is a sustainable cycle community. Even if the whole climate problem was fake, it would be good to create a sustainable society. The cost of doing so will always be high - paying as everything else literally pales in comparison. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then we're just talking hard money. However, the reason we should adopt sustainableness is so much better than just being moneylike. [[The president calls.]] A truly peaceful society is priceless.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u35	The President would like to remind the senators to stay on time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for opening up this discussion. As shown in the answer to the highest. The Environment, Energy and Climate Minister is already beginning to achieve the high targets of Iceland in the fight against climate. The new Environment, Energy, and Climate Ministry is an enormous step in raising and maintaining climate issues. However, climate is not a personal matter, but it takes all the community to control the impacts of climate change. The energy issues are climate issues. You could hear the discussion earlier, and it was time for others to view them that way. Not only are we in a position to use green energy within the country but we can also put up an international fight against the climate problem by producing electricity for export. The energy exchange will be one of our main contributions to climate, and we need to face the fact that it requires more energy. The government has proclaimed that the energy exchange will be completed by 2040, and this calls for effort on energy issues. As a result, reports on the rise in fossil fuel combustion caused by a lot of fear and loss of energy. The electricity deficiency could result in 3.4% higher emissions, according to economics Efla. This means that the results resulting from less emissions from the electrical vehicle could be wiped out in the months to come. V.E.G. A climate minister has proclaimed measures to respond to this situation, and I would like to encourage him. With the young people suffering from climate anxiety, I'd like to say that governments are listening, and it's a supernatural goal to follow science. It is our job to raise your anxiety, and we will do so by taking real steps to counteract further climate change. It is also our responsibility never to be content, so we must always take more and larger steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u37	Madam President. After listening to the highest. Minister, both today and yesterday, I get a little bit of the feeling that he looks at himself and his Ministry more like an observer than a doer when it comes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is best that Ministers burn for more and larger activations, but, as the energy manager has noted, the energy flows directly into the energy exchange. It takes a very clear policy, but it needs a whole plan to make sure it does. That's why it hurts to the top. Ministers will not give us very clear answers on how Iceland's national target of climate change will be updated, when it will happen, and whether the government's climate programme of action will be reviewed and how these updated targets will appear in government policy and measures at all times. But I hope it reaches the highest. Minister to review it better afterwards. Last night we talked about the bus and the electric car truck. It turned out that the government still assumes that fossil fuels are being brought into the country until 2030. In the year 2040, there are still cars that remain undiscovered, yet the government's treaties show that by the year 2040 Iceland is to be free of fossil fuels. It just doesn't work. I'm going to quote the highest. Minister, with permission of presidents: If the government's current objective is to achieve better results, I would be the first to celebrate it, and then we can reevaluate our plans. Are these the words of a politician burning for bringing Iceland into the green future by a revolution in public transport and a massive plan for the recovery of wetlands? No, these are the words of someone who's going to sit there hoping things would get tough, following the line of events, as the government's policy on climate change has been. What we need in the climate Ministry is a fighter or fighter for radical climate operations, which can activate the solidarity of young people and older ones in real action in behalf of climate, earth, and all of us and future generations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u38	A respectable president. I thank the prime speaker for this discussion, which is important for our regularity here at the Hall of Congress. As mentioned in the case of the highest. Minister is an independent target of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions set out in the Treaty of a new government, and in this spring we legalize the objectives of Iceland's noncarbonization in the year 2040. So now there is work to update and adapt climate planning to these goals. I'd like to emphasize consultation and cooperation to plan and lead to the goal. We have real opportunities to achieve these objectives in the cooperation of government and professional life, in the cooperation of different industrys, in the cooperation of professional life, and in the university of innovation, cooperation of home and employment, and thus to continue. There is great ambition in society that can give us far. It plays a key role in cooperation with the laws and motivations established by the government. Hv. paritaprevir Signý Kristjánsdóttir and others have considered the importance of energy and distribution in this context. But there are so many other areas in which working on climates is part of a successful business. The process is full of reducing emissions and has set goals to do even better. Large companies are working with forests for the binding of carbon. The evolution of so - called inactive electrodes can lead to mutations in reducing carbon output from aluminium. All cultures bind carbon in vegetation and to achieve the best results in this area, it is important that farmers can use their knowledge to the carbon binding of land and energy plants. [[The president calls.]] Vidar activities create opportunities to promote the sustainability of individual settlements and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u39	A respectable president. The national objective of Iceland's climate-related issues, as assessed by me, should be to fulfill the international commitments of Iceland, mainly the Kyoto Convention, its period, and the Paris Convention. That's basic. It's a global catastrophe and it's supposed to be solved in a international level. If you read and cross the Treaty, there seems to be something very different. It is to be the best in the world, to be outstanding in all things. That's not gonna happen. A complete book on this, or a small brochure, as done in the government covenant, can be written that we will never be the best in the world of all worlds when we do not live up to international commitments, to be absolutely clear. We're supposed to focus on this objective, and we're going to need to make a good review of where we're going to screw up and where we can do better. Regarding the energy exchange, the main thing is the electrical vehicle. As mentioned earlier in my short case, I don't think it's a very high ground for the miniboat fleet, ferrys are a self-recognizable option, i.e. That they're being driven by electricity, but I've been studying it only with the miniboat and there's no basis for it today, the speed and energy of the boats. This is a huge cost. The Norwegians are sponsoring this party only, and I don't think the Icelanders are going to do anything that matters. I believe the main point is, and the direction of the Stockholm people is, that Iceland's activities in climate are not allowed to affect poor people in the country or the public in the country. That's basic. That people will not be cursed, either. We're supposed to do what we can do, fulfill international commitments, and start with electrical vehicles, using that power source, the huge energy of cheap electricity, which is pure electricity, not selling the origin of land, and using it to make Iceland green, and to start transport entirely. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u40	The president wants to reiterate it to the council to keep the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u41	Madam President. The Icelandic government has set ambitious goals on climate and the follow - up plan, as it has been carefully reminded. The VG was the first political force to set up climate issues, and gradually more people have followed or taken up more. In order to cope with the climate and prevent natural disasters, effective measures are needed. The increased awareness of Iceland's commitment to climate and ambition to do more is both important and enjoyable, and it is indeed looked to by international leadership. Many people tend to forget, as this discussion indicates, that we have accepted not only international commitments in climate but also the protection of biodiversity. These assignments are closely connected and interwoven. Biodiversity is often used as a measure of ecosystems health, structure and interaction within ecosystems and their capacity for continued development and existence. It is important to realize that biodiversity involves not only a number of species but also a variety of species, abilities, and abilities within them to adapt to new circumstances and to form new species. Iceland's special position is that the island is young and isolated from volcanoes with diverse and ever-changing habitats, which have been studied in relatively few species of organisms, which appear in vast variety and variations within species and species at a slow rate. In this situation, the formation of new species and ecosystems is denying. Iceland is actually the Galapagos Islands of the future if these evolutionary squares are allowed to shape it unreachable and our global obligation is to protect them. We are part of life, of nature, and it has its right to develop on its own terms. I'd like to say in particular: We need to ensure that together we will take targeted and effective action on climate issues and protection of habitats, biodiversity and nature protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u42	Madam President. I want to talk here about words, expectations, things. The government's contract has clear aims for the completion of a third stage of the provision and use programme and for the increasing number of waiting options. A few days ago, I asked the head of the Superficial Programme to meet the major challenges facing energy issues, on the other hand, to ensure national security, which has simply been a fairyly ill use by time in the last four and a half years, and to meet the ambitious, energy exchange goals of the government in terms of climate. The conversation was fine, and much interesting work was made clear to a minister when he said that there was no energy and that he was preaching construction projects. Part of the approach delay is made in extending the waiting order of a frame plan and taking specific energy options now in the activating and protection categories and moving to a waiting party; response in accordance with the administration of the Treaty. But earlier that day had the highest. However, the Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister, the God-given Þór Þórðarson, presented his Constitution to the World Transport Committee of Environment and Transport, which made it clear that the third stage of the Framework Programme will still remain unchanged, for the fourth time, after four and a half years of the same administrative work. According to this, the government will not try to establish common conclusions. Rather, the problem will be dropped to the council, where members of the council will not know which way to go, they may step on each foot. Madam President. The answer to the challenges we face involves changing these practices, both energy and climate. We need consultation and cooperation rather than conflict and divisions. Our country and nation owe it to us to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u43	Madam President. This second talk, I would like to introduce energy exchanges in transportation. We're a little bit, I think, in the role of the ant that wants to lead the herd in the direction it's going anyway, when it comes to energy exchange in terms of the mob. This is happening. Of course, this depends on the development of the major producers and we're just supposed to install the system here so that we can accept this trend. This is going to happen on its own, this problem will just be solved. But then we shouldn't get in the way we did. During the last December of some amazing operation that turned out to be a minivan that had been sent from below 100% electric cars, it was by no means. I mention it here, and have often come into it from this pontte during the past term, that I think we often get stuck in secondary details, details, in this case, in this case, the most important factor that will depend on evolution from the outside of the world and that we should welcome it. But there are other factors that we can have a real impact on. We can push very thoroughly to develop increased forestry by changing land use. We can continue to promote production of the greenest product if compared with, for example. Similar products produced in China or in other countries where coal burns, energy production continues. So I'm the highest. Environment, energy, and climate minister to keep their eyes on the balls that can actually return to the target, instead of the focus being completely energy-divided in the bus truck. [[The president calls.]] It's a thing that's going to happen to most of it by itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u44	Madam President. Now, first of all, I just want to remember that there was an organization on the women's list that first introduced the political scene here on the land with the climate. Perhaps it is true to remind us that this is another aspect of the matter, since we would have listened to it better. [[Strike out: Hallelujah.]] Sounds like we all agree that this is an important discussion, and I think it would be good for us to have regular discussions on climate issues here at a council like the highest level. A minister knows his former work as Minister of Foreign Affairs, where it is very positive to have this discussion once, twice a year, to keep us busy. I recall that a year ago, I was just motivated by a special discussion about Iceland's national goals, which were now over a year's due. In fact, the discussion even caused a minister to dust from his suggestions and send to the United Nations on that very day, allowing him to come to a house with success. I wish I hadn't done the same now. V.E.G. Ministers say Iceland wants to join the countries that drag the bus on climate issues. Denmark has established a 70% reduction target. Norway has its own national objective of 50-5555%, Sweden 63%, Finland is going to be non-carbon five years before Iceland. Iceland runs the train in the North. I asked the highest. A minister in the direction he was going to expand the 55% objective of the Treaty two months ago in a discussion of financial matters, and he answered that he was not going to make any comments about it at that point. It would require consultations and all kinds of things. Now the minister says that he has not yet decided how he will do this - or if I understand the minister correctly. [[The president calls.]] The deadline is, as I mentioned earlier, February 7, so I would like to ask: Isn't the government really going to update its national objective to the UN climate agreement as all the countries of the world have to do before the fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and a advocate for taking up these matters, and I hope we have more opportunities to do so, and certainly, to discuss these matters both in the councilroom and elsewhere because it is very important. Of course, I can't correct all the things that came out here, but just to be clear, because there was nothing here to try to make energy go to the public in energy exchange, I would like to say that one of the first things I did was set in motion an electrical security team to handle that issue precisely. If you need more than this group or any other suggestions there, it will be done. Here, a lot of things appeared, and even though it might be said. However, not everyone agreed, I feel that this is a definite tone, which is, " Everybody scurry. ' Senators agree that we are going to reach these goals, we are going to do better, we want to be with the best of them, and that is certainly my will. But we must start to get to that place to discuss how we will do so. How will we do so? The reason, a respectable president, I brought up certain facts at the outset is because we must also discuss how we will arrive at our destination because what will arise is what we do, not what we say. Hv. Senators can scold me for looking at things the way they are, but I'm just gonna do it. Does this mean that they lacked ambition? No, nothing's missing on ambition, but I see what the situation is. I know what the projects are, and it won't be up to me to be as successful as possible, but I won't do anything on my own. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I appreciate it so much. Every member of the council showed up here, saying in different words that they are ready for this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u46	Madam President. I bring here an opinion about the bill to legalize the state account. It tells us that we were contacted by a representative of the Department of Economics and Economics. Similarly, in 2020, we received an introduction from the government accountant and his staff who presented us with a reexamination report on the state account, and we received an introduction from the state's financial district on the basis of the financial account. The bill is simple, and it means that the Council confirmed the kingship account in 2020. The bill is based on 58th par. track No. 123/2015, on official financial matters, which states that the Minister should submit a bill at the General Parliament to confirm a financial account. The bill's report will discuss the results of the account and will explain the deviations of income revenues, expenditures and loans from UNECE approved sources. Official review has revised the account according to the law, on the state accountant and review of state accounts, and in accordance with international government revision standards. A national accountant has signed the bill without warning but with the indication of the position of international accounting standards for public authorities (IPSAS). Induction of five standards is delayed. This is the IPSAS standard for: contracts, complex accounts, investments in partner organisations and joint tasks, partnerships and information sources of interest in other units. The law on public financial matters made extensive changes in the terms of government funds. Part A of the State Fund has been created on the basis of international accounting standards for public authorities on the basis of the management board. The induction of modified accounts is a vast project that began before 2017 and is therefore not completed with a version of the circulation by 2020. Calculations for 2020 are based on the IPSAS standards, with the abnormalities in which the Council of Remuneration has authorized a delay in the introduction of some standards mentioned earlier. An article with the bill and in an explanation 2 with a bill will discuss permission to postpone the introduction of certain standards and discuss the standards where the induction is being delayed. Abnormal standards are also discussed. The presentation and classification according to the international economy report standard (GFS) is the classification and format of Article 1. The budget for 2020 points to that. Both GFS and IPSAS are designed to ensure consistency and international control capacity, but they have different emphasis. IPSAS complies the bill with emphasis on economic management and state, allows us to assess financial resources, enhance management responsibilities, and increase the transparency of business decision-making. GFS assesses the economic impact of public financial policies, distinguishes its impact on the economy and on decision making in public finance. The primary focus for GFS is for overall recovery as a economic benefit scale and is therefore an economic objective. 1st par. The budget for 2020 was set out by the GFS standard. Disturbings in the survival of these two standards are stated in a table that is included in the title sheet of the greater part. It shows that the yield according to the state bill (IPSAS) is negative at about 144.5 billion k. but, according to national interest (GFS standard), the recovery is negative by 217.5 billion k. As mentioned earlier, the total recovery according to the state account was negative by some 144.5 billion dollars. Compared to 42.3 billion dollars. Positive status the previous year. This adds up to 186.8 billion. between. The income was 801.8 billion. and budget 99.3 billion. Growth equations were negative by 46.1 billion. But by the way, sharing in the survival of our companions was positive by some 09.1 billion dollars. So, all told, the recovery is negative about 144.5 billion years. The main explanation of the far less efficient recovery of the year 2020 compared to the previous year is the effects of the pandemic crown virus. The stable financial status of the epidemic was used to reduce economic and social damage and to lay the groundwork for the economic resistance. The government introduced in 2020 measures designed directly to support economic protection, protection and resistance of households and companies. These provisions included direct expenses for government funds, less tax returns, the sources to postpone tax payments from year to year, and the responsibilities that may later be experienced as a cost for state funds. Specific economic measures designed to counteract the effects of the epidemic were developed. The effect of these measures was about 80 billion. in 2020. In addition, postponing tax pay amounted to 20.5 billion dollars. and the responsibilities of a government budget of 31 billion. In addition, there is an automatic response to the tax and unemployment reforming system at more than 92 billion dollars. An investment campaign took about 15 billion dollars. During the year, but starting new investments or hurrying up previously planned investments was meant to improve economic activities and to create jobs. During the year, five additional funds were adopted, four of them in the early year to provide and finance various measures under the pandemic, and the last ones at the end of the year. The report reviews key factors in the balance of accounts, the development of debt, funds, income and the expenditure of causes of climate change. There is also information on the transfer of budgets between the year and the published table in which the topic areas of pay are presented, which have more than one billion share. A variation from the entire budget of the year. The SmPC 16 then presents all the positions by the end of 2020 that are transferred to 2021. The special statements are not revised. The transport is based on clearance at 30 st. a law on public finances, further implemented in Regulation 566/021 for transport of Part A from year to year. The principle is that management positions and investment contributions move from year to year to meet certain criteria, while strategists and some calculated factors, depending on economic factors and other factors beyond the decision of a secretary not to move from year to year. This is true for most of the people in your social security, pension commitments, and financial expenses. In the conclusion of a financial bill on the signing of a government accountant, it is stated that a state accountant further explains the results of a special report. He has presented the report at a meeting of the Committee. Signing of the state-reviewer's signature is without notice by reference to law No. 123/2015, official financial status, and with a tip about the introduction to IPSAS accounts, as I crossed the previous page. The result of this review is that despite the events caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, the government's budget has been successful in all the main points in 2020. The financial standing of the state's funds is good, and they are committed to property. However, the value of property is lower than it was at the end of the next year and is the result of the crown virus. The results of this report include a number of aspects of the majority of the committee that especially focus on. It has to do with the results and comments of the State Review for the past year; repeatedly, the results of 2019 remain unchanged at the end of 2020, are discussed in general; the indication in State accountants' signing, public financial legislation, property assessments and information on holdings, internal monitoring and procedure of accounting, internal review and classification of the State's activities. Suggested improvements are provided in four categories and are as follows: 1st Follow-up of annual accounts by state. a. The Ministry of Economics and Economics needs to follow the submission of Member States in annual accounts, cr. of regulations of 54th pars. it's a government law. b. For financial support of government, it is necessary to comply with legal requirements based on accounting and making a bill of government. The procedure of regulations must be followed as permitted in the 67th streme. The law. c. The government's budget needs clear rules and guidelines to eliminate possible uncertainty about the accounting of individual business practices. 2. Critic view of practices in the preparation of government bills. a. The government's financial management reviews and reevaluates all government accounts in order to ensure that accounting and accounting arrangements do not delay the publication of the annual accounts by the citizens. b. It is essential that the preparation for the preparation of the total State's data set up so that no further delay in the implementation of the State's accounting laws will be met by the full implementation of IPSAS. 3. The result of the official financial law and the desirable review of the law. Government reviews suggest that financial and economic ministers may be evaluated for the effectiveness of the law and that legal goals have been met. - I'd also like to say that we've talked a little bit about it on a budget board, both now and before, that it's being brought along and that we're going to emphasize it. As director, I have told the Committee that we are going to do this work together so that we can see the establishment of a government bill in a certain way and how the law has worked. We're going to have a full share in that work. It's not just supposed to come from the Ministry. 4. Internal review will be carried out by Member States in Period A. In order to promote financial internal monitoring and to support government monitoring, an internal review in Part A is required in accordance with Article 65 of each Member State. The law. Over the past few years, a number of indications of the greater part have been addressed as a result of a confirmation of state balance, as well as a whole of financial committees. However, the point remains that there is a need for a bill, a bill for his confirmation, and the review report to be published at the same time as before. In addition, more than a part of the Committee believes that there is a full reason to follow up on some of the State Accounting proposals. These are especially: * The sentence of the regulations listed in Article 67 must be followed. the law on government finance, not only because of internal review, but also all the rest of the regulations to be set. * It is important to reevaluate all work in the preparation of the account, not only to delay the publication of the Member State's annual accounts, but also to speed up the version of the total accounts. - We're certainly talking about what happened in 2020 and perhaps in some way understandable that it's late again. But it's been accepted a process that we're always doing too late on credit. * Induction of the enforcing bill for the entire state. The majority agree with the National Reconclusion of the Necessary Need for the Final Induction Program as soon as possible. The review report points out that by the permission of the Commission to postpone the final implementation of the IPSAS standards by 5 years it will be 10 years from the approved government legislation until the sites are fully introduced. It's a long induction time. * In connection with comments on promoting state monitoring, a greater proportion of the committee points out that the Landst Hospital, the Longest National Institute of State, does not have an internal accountant. It suggests that things will be improved as soon as possible and that the accountant will be directly addressed to the hospital's future management. The review report contains many indications and comments that are not discussed in the section on improvement recommendations. The majority will follow up with many of them, both for State Review, for the Ministry of Economics and for the State's Economics. These comments, e.g. In the opinion of property and possession information. Under the committee's opinion, write the one here and why. Councilmen of Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Ingibjörg Isakssen, Vilhjálmur the Árnason of Arnam, Vagn the son of Stefánsson, and Brichdidi, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. There are many things that have been published in this report, and in the case of the bill, that we need to consider more closely with a financial committee. We need to shape questions and ask these individuals to answer. We may be discussing an account as transparent as possible, but it certainly cannot be said that it is the same today. Here's the smaller part of the committee party, and it seems to me that we're walking in a rhythm by requiring more detailed explanations and more accurate accounting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u47	A respectable president. I thank the Chairman what. The legal committee for this review and the cooperation in this case. I wanted to bring in just a few numbers that made us aware of the review of a bill, if I look past these technical issues, which, of course, are plenty of. It shows that the 2020 investment of the year was about 50 billion dollars. but there were 40 billion of the approved funds left. That's a huge amount. Before that, nearly 20 billion had been present since the previous year. Today, we talk about these blessed investments. It is extremely difficult to see when it is coming, and these transfers from year to year make it very difficult to recognize the underlying prowess of investments. That's why the Committee has been consulted, including of the people standing here, and more members of the committees, whether there is a head of the government to stand in such a conflict, whether it can be done on such a large, massive project with little notice, and whether we should look a little different on public investments, they should be more independent of the economy. So I would like to direct that question to why. In view of the fact that we may now be seeing high amounts of money falling in after the economy has started, the chairman of each of its visions is learned from the government's investments and how it has been successful to get this funding done. What adjustments need to be made? Is it possible to engage in these extreme investments?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u48	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is exactly one of the things we've seen right now, it's safe to say, how much has been left behind, and how little else we got into real work, especially in what we were going to put money on, in our roads, and in other places. We've had the road model come to visit, and we're following it up with inquiries, including i.e. ... fromwhat. A senator, that there will be a further explanation of a little over time how this has been. I think that when those figures get into the house, we can talk more about this because there's been a couple of fights, but, of course, it's a little bit of a business that has been involved in that big project that only on the basis of budgets can it be done with a small amount, as it was shown in our meeting. Of course, whether this should be independent of the economy is also a question that we need to consider as we continue this work, whether it should be out of our account or not. I have not, as it were, formed an opinion of whether it should be, but it is a matter of concern when we are putting so much money into it, whether society has the capacity to implement in a single sector as much as it was. proposed here, or should there have been a greater number of projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u49	Madam President. I thank the Chairman what. The legal committee for the answer. Now that we're in this direction, maybe I'm just going to walk on the song about the future mouse, because now we're looking at the state bill to learn from the past and what we can do in the future, and hopefully soon we'll begin our financial conference here at the council. There is now the possibility that the rules and debt rules taken in this situation will fall with total weight on public farming. It may be a measure of wrath that we need to put on the public in this regard. We know from the past that investments have often given in such situations. Today, the European Union is looking at the so - called Golden Rule in its review of government finances, where the idea is to eliminate investments from income and debt. This is a serious consideration of the locals because for years there has been underinvestment, such as here in the United States. The idea is that we won't always get into it when we're about to get started again that we're going to stop on an investment. I would like to direct that question in answer to a second question. The chairman of the budget board whether it's an interest to consider this seriously, that a financial committee was wondering what the European Union is doing, and that these changes were not just taken into consideration but that we would seriously consider changing the financial policy now for the coming re-organization of the rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u50	Madam President. It's true about the principle of decomposition and debt, because it's actually put in at the end of the period, that we've discussed it on the committee, and it's also established by the secretary of finance and economics whether it's desirable to consider that once it draws closer to whether it needs to come into any step. I think we should be very alert and open to see that this may have to happen. I don't think that it's possible for the other to happen in such a way without any consideration for consequences. I didn't agree, either, when this rule was set in its own time, and I've been worried about it, and I feel that there's been something that's proved to be true right now. So I think we should think about it. With the Golden Rule and what's going on with the European Union, I think this is one of the things we'll expect to face when we go to a mental conference about a legal review. Of course, this is one of the things we can discuss there. Whether we come to some conclusion about it, whether it's a joint result or something, we'll just have to come up with something. But I think we're definitely supposed to roll it up like each other. There's nothing I feel against it. There is just a number of things that we need to consider, considering the experiences we've had here at the council on public financial matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u51	Madam President. For old information systems, the revision report by the State accountant on the accounts of 2020 specifically discusses the technical debt. Here's the word, Mr. President's permission: ▪ The information systems of many member countries in a part of their age, are being run in an old technology environment and are written in the prevention systems that younger programmers have limited knowledge about as programs become older, grow heavier and more expensive in reform and maintenance. It is called particularly after a return to ◯ so that technology debt will not be increased with significant costs and risks for the state's funds. Here at the General Assembly, a number of talks have been held on the coordination of government software solutions and on Digital Iceland, which may appear to be the crown jewel of the highest order. Secretary of finance. Yet, it is now that in 2022, after all these years and all these press conferences and news bulletins of Digital Iceland, a government accountant is moved to warn us that the software of the public and information systems is not maintained, not only speaks of technical debt, but of technical debt that will be increased if no further renewal is made. I want to ask this question. Chairman of the budget board: What exactly is being done wrong? Why is it so much after all these investments in public software solutions? Why is this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u52	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Yeah, I think this is something we need the Ministry of finance to evaluate. It doesn't make me feel that I'm in the middle of the fact that this is one of the things we're supposed to want from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the cost-and-risk assessment of this debt, because it's certainly, as it's said here, to the system. Despite the fact that Digital Iceland is where it is now, of course, it will continue to grow. In itself, though, this may be what you can do for the time being so that you can plan it for the future and that you would like those answers. This is one of the things I'd put my eyes on, too, that I think we need to have questions for the Ministry. The committee will discuss some questions that we clearly need to send following the work that we have now acquired and that we have obtained in an consideration of this balance of government. There's a lot under there that's not clear. Not only is it not clear on the State Reconnaissance, not even on certain factors in my opinion, but also on the part of Financial Affairs, and also on the basis of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So I believe this is one of the really important questions because, yes, this is what our whole system is doing. It's digital.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u53	Madam President. We find it very tangible in the committee I sit in at the General Assembly that it takes weeks, even months, to set, e.g. An application procedure with the Théoden for the state support of the pandemic and for the cross-examination criteria. And when there's an idea of changing the primarys that come from the Ministry, it's a little bit this way: then it's gonna be even more complicated, and then it'll take more months. It's just that I think that this is too much to think about. Now we've been playing with this pandemic for two years. We first saw how long it took for the epidemic to drive out both the state - of - duty loans and the sponsorship of an enterprise. All I'm worried about is the digital infrastructure of the government, and I'd love to hear it. The chairman of the budget board doesn't agree with me on the need to do better when it comes to investments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u54	Madam President. Yes, I agree that there is a need to be done much better in there. I remember this discussion when we were shutting down the law about a insurance institution, for example, that it took days. Now I don't know if it's because the computer system is bad or if it's because of something else. Clearly, though, it was something that would take many days to work. I wouldn't be surprised if part of it was at least one of them. because the interiors are quite old or do not communicate well enough. I think it's like this all over the system. But it's gotten better, it's really gotten better in many places, and let's not belittle it. But this tip from a public accountant gives us reason to follow this along, which we will do on a budget committee, and I trust my associates will be on my side of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u55	President. It's a fairly unconventional case in this councilroom, a government bill. It's done. It's done. We're looking at how funds were destroyed, and this is the endpoint in the long process that, in fact, government financial policy, begins a little on the basis of long-term policy or a long-term report. The financial policy then includes the box for the term period and just over a financial program to which the government's policy is to take place, then as an amendment of policy development, the annual report that explains how this was done in the past and finally the financial bill. In this context, it is interesting that we would like to get the state account for a discussion at a council but not, for example. the year report, for it is a matter of government policy. Therefore, I find it interesting, as it stands in the opinion of the greater section, that the result of this review is that government funds have been successful in all major issues in 2020 despite the traumatic events caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the cost of property is lower than that of the virus. I just can't quite believe it, I have to say, because I've been asking what legal jobs are, the projects we're making the law to work for, and they don't know how much it takes. If we don't know what it takes to meet certain rights we're agreeing with here according to the law, how do we know the business was good?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u56	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is certainly true that here we are setting the final point for the year 1920 C.E. A senator went over before, i.e. The policies, plans, and budgets, and then closed with a government account, and then these annual reports are as good as any. A senator mentioned, in fact, who has been down for some time now, unfortunately. That is exactly what we need to do. So I think it's a good job to push the company and its institutions in my opinion. You're doing great. Of course, hairpieces may be fine, but they are successful because there is an abundance of assets in debt, in the opinion of a government accountant. That's how he puts it up. Likely, then, he is walking out of the numbers presented in the account. Of course, he can do nothing more than do that because institutions render their accounts based on their original plans, and on that, he makes his conclusions. There is nothing else to do. The fact that we senators don't think something is properly run or enough money is so just another thing. This is what the budget allows for at any time, and it builds the government account. It can never be based on anything other than the laws of the law, taking into account when these accounts have been made and examined. But then I just want to say, because this is where we were talking about our internal accountants and our major institutions, that I think we have to come on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u57	A respectable president. That's exactly why we put all this, long-term prospects, policy plans, budgets, annual reports and all of this in order to figure out the scope of the projects. This should include cost assessment and non-fiction analysis. This should include priorities, etc. which is the foundation for the really success of business, according to plan. We don't have a plan. We just have a bullet in the air about how much bread is worth. Then we eat all the bread and say: " Woe! The famine is lifted! But how many of us were giving birth to the loaf of bread? Were there many others who needed much more than one loaf of bread? Whether the loaf of bread has gone out well does not mean that it has been successful. The requirement to reevaluate all work procedures in the preparation of the bill is in the indication of a greater proportion of legal committees. I think this is a bit of a tip for me to say right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u58	Madam President. The political is faced with answering the questions as well as the answers. A senator brought, not a state accountant. Of course, the scope of the budget, the scope of each organisation as we know it, and that is what the account is based on. Whether members of Congress feel that there is not enough, or the whole world has not yet been eaten, as well. A senator mentioned earlier, or those needed, is something we need to answer. A member of the government surveys the account just from the budget we put each year. I don't think I can be any clearer about examining all procedures. Yeah, I think it's fine if we cross it. Perhaps just a small amount or a few things need to be changed. I think there may still be some points that suggest that it is a good thing to go through the work process and these tips and other things that we see in the writings of a government accountant in this report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u59	President. A little context to start with official financial laws. Previously, there was a law on income that always looked so narrow on government business, one year at a time, that it was put in a second gear to try to rid politics and other members of a particular moral problem that is experienced when a short period of time is observed. Public financial laws were set up to encourage policy development, encourage professional work on how government funds were put forward to promote a particular approach and compromise in the management of public resources. The foundation is a long - term report on the economic outlook that shows us the development of crowds and electricity and various economics and how they will develop in the years ahead and how politics will have to decide what to do. This, in turn, has won financial policy and, in particular, a financial agenda. There's a little bit of confusion there, but financialism is one thing and financial plans are another. In a financial program, government policy, not financial policy, is revealed. It's confusing. The financial program shows that governments will take action to solve problems. To solve that problem, governments should provide evidence that there is a problem at first and what possible means to solve it. Then we choose the solutions, or governments, and put them before the council and say that the solution we have chosen most effectively and effectively. There, political decisions may be about what is practical and what is not. This, in turn, provides support for budgets each year according to cost-and-resurrection analysis of this choice by the government in their policy-making. It explains the effectiveness of government policies in the annual reports of Ministers, which somehow will not be discussed further in the conference hall. Surely we can demand, that would not be so much of a subject and indeed interesting. At the moment, none of this is done. Secretary's annual reports are completely useless papers. They are really self - esteem, for the standards are so inaccurate. You can just say, "We did it really well, and we didn't really do it. " We have no idea because it's just a guess. I feel a bit like that with my government bill, because even though it is, as indicated in the answers to the above, we have no idea if any financial rights will fulfill the laws that we have given to the Commission to follow, e.g. Social Security Act and Health Care Act. We have no idea who the cost of the rights of that law really is. Still, we get - now there is always a legal adjustment on public financial laws - the cost of all legal adjustments. But we do not have the information on the total cost of each law. There is something that we should have and should be the basis for the budgets that are placed at the top of this basic government business, and then a government policy that has something to do with legal changes to do something more efficient or to get an investment from a financial crisis or something like that. The foundation is mainly examined in the accounts, and we have really little idea of how it is built up, since it is completely lacking something called a reassessment of this system. Here I present my opinion of a section of the legal committee, which is prepared by me. Councilmen Kristrún Frostadóttir and Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son. A member of the Committee, Einarsson, signes that agrees with this opinion. According to the government's law on government finance, the secretary's office should submit a bill at the General Assembly to confirm a financial account. The bill shall discuss the results of the bill and explain the variation of income, spending, and loans with the approval of the Generals' sources. The bill reviews these issues, but the discussion takes into account some of the special statements that the lesser part will account for. This is the case by GFS bases which are based on national income, but this is not revised by Government Accounting or by other accountants. So the minority feels the need to work out an accounting road as it is required in terms of government accounts to ensure its quality. The law on government finance, 56. g., shows what state account should contain. In addition, instructions are given in so-called IPSAS accounts, which are also to be followed. That, in fact, is what the Bible says. that within six months after the end of the year, the minister should issue a bill covering the budget of the state funds of the A, B, and C. The bill was signed by the secretary of finance and district manager 29 June 2021 as well as by the state accountant. In other words, delay in publishing the bill has been completed for six months, as has been the custom since the period of legalization. The smaller section considers it important to make progress from time to time so that the account will be done at the same time as the annual accounts of the main companies in the Sale Hall. So it would be possible for the General to finish a discussion about him in the spring council instead of moving forward after the year, let alone to the next year, as the situation continues. Then, in September 2021, a review report by the State Review Report was published, but the smaller portion feels that it will be done at about the same time as the State bill -- things can be done at the same time here - so that coverage can also be completed during the spring Summit, preferably for financial management of the next year, in order to make certain agreements in how the numbers fit in here. State account should be set in two parts. The previous section of the government accounts includes the interest of the A-part of the state, and it should contain -- and then there's some list, which is directly from the law on public finances: The first is an accounting for the last year of financial gain, made on the basis of international government accounting standards. The introduction standard has the authority to introduce all standards in three years. In addition, financial and economic secretary has been authorized and authorized by the State Department of accounting in accordance with Article 52 of the Treaty on Public Financial Affairs to postpone full production for up to five years starting in 2021. So, since new laws on government finance were passed, it may have lasted as many as ten years before a federal account will be fully in accordance with international government accounting standards. The smaller section considers this to be all too long, and encourages the secretary of finance and economics to make this right now, end up following the law as it has stressed the last few days. The non-supposed standards are five contracts, complex accounts of investments in partnerships and joint tasks, partnerships, and information sources of interest in other units. On page 18. 30 in credit account shows its effect on the account of state that the establishment of the above standards has been suspended. It also shows that a public accountant's signing of his effects on the state account and the reasons for the postponement of induction is made subject to a material explanation. The smaller section does not consider the above explanations accurate, since there is an absolute lack of value in the explanations. The general wording is used that does not provide a clear, clear picture of the effects, as shown by the following explanation in a perpetuation. The leases. Pronunciation of this status has negligible impact on accounts now, but a new standard is expected to result in substantial changes in the handling of contracts, as has occurred at the introduction of the corresponding IFRS status. In the IPSAS standard for shared accounts: The effects of this delay should not be largely on the survival of a government fund, but will become significant in property and debt, where property and debt of B- and C-part parties are fully entered into the solidarity of state funds as a whole. In terms of investments in partnerships and joint projects, there is no known effect on government accounting, but it is not expected to be significant. This is interesting. -Simmunications. There is no effect on government interpretation, but it is not expected to be significant. This is the same thing as before, and as with information on interest in other units, the impact of education is not on the economy or on business, it affects the information supply in the balance of government, which you would think would be a little important. This is interesting, especially because we asked a Public Review of this, e.g. ... aboutthespecialsthat are not revised either. In response to the Constitution of the Council of Justice, it is stated that there is a violation of a specialty on lawsuits and legislators and that their review would be very time - consuming, but it did not change the basic results of a state account. I think it's a little strangely said, that it's time-consuming and changing little when it's supposed to do this, very spade all of it. According to a government accountant's signature, the reference to the approved accounting Council on evaporation and visas is given to a state-referer that the bill gives a clear picture of the financial status of the 31st December 2020, the survival of the state's budget in 2020, and the change of hand-made funds in 2020, according to law No. 123/2015 on public financial matters. In addition to this, the state account follows the specification of nr. 1616, but they are not revised. As the lesser part will account, he believes a review should have occurred at least Part of the special statements where the information contained in them is part of the State account as defined in the 56th paragraph. The law. Another factor to be stated in the financial balance is the format and classification according to the international economic reporting standard on public finances. The review report shows that there is a potential for failure in the category of activities and tasks between the 50th paragraphs. track No. 123/2015 and IPSAS rules. A regional review shows that there must be a discrepancies to make it clear that the principles set out in international economic and accounting agencies are being followed. The lesser part agrees with Government Accounting. The third thing to show in terms of government accounts is the provision of the account year, budget, and account number for the next year. On page 18. 9 in the account says: "In terms of official financial law, it is assumed that accounts are published in comparison with the account accounts of the year's account, the budget, and the account number of the next year. This account presents comparisons with previous years, but financial and financial laws do not provide financial resources on the same basis as the accounting standards. Remuneration in budgets is not published and therefore controls cannot be published at this time. In addition to budgets, an overview of the damage done by the General and the budgets of 2020 is presented in the review of acidification of acidification, as well as in the budgets of the year 2020. Also included in special statements is the comparison between Member States in Part A and budgets. The minority feels that the comparison should have been published in a balance sheet, and this information can be prepared so that the comparison can be made. This reminds us that the special summary is not revised that is unfortunate, since it is published as part of a government account, as indicated by his above - mentioned explanation. The fourth point to appear in the bill of government is the classification and provision of documents according to their origin. Also mentioned on page 24. 9 in the accounts that the classification and provision of documents by their origin are published in Article 5 of the latter part of the accounts. It's a strategized by stateholders in Period A, which are the ideals on which the government account is based. The special statement is made in four sections, divided by topic areas, and discussed into business and investment, and then down on the A-part State by business and investment. The minority points out that the index is unresearched. The fifth point to be published is the transfer of funds within a category approved and published. On page 18. 10 says, "Hey, that's 10," that's what I'm talking about.: ◯Multigraphies within the seminaries are identified in a special review of 6 in the latter part of the Court's Calculus. The minority points out that the index is unresearched. The sixth thing to show up in a government account is a disassembled overview of key holdings and the total economy of the A State Fund. A disintegrated overview of the main classes of property and total economic debt is found in the accounts of the annual accounts disassembled property and debt that are fundamentally large in the balance of accounts. There's everything that's supposed to be according to the book. The seventh point to be published is an overview that shows the revenue of state funds from the use of resources in the state market and due to the limited rights of the government. On page 18. 10 says, "Hey, that's 10," that's what I'm talking about.: ▪ Overseems showing the income of the state's resource use in the state market and due to the limited rights not published by the government. It is designed to define what should fall below and gather the relevant information. The minority points out that there has been some since public financial law went into effect, so the chart should be in his opinion. Here it would be very interesting to have a little chat about the fishing system, the cooling system, and the using of resources on it, where government funds get enough to cover 500 million a year after the cost of hunting costs, of that resource, a remarkable amount of anything compared to all the other money in the world system. The eighth point is that an overview of non-payable tax will be shown separately in a credit sheet. On page 18. 10 says, "Hey, that's 10," that's what I'm talking about.: ▪ The overview of non-payable tax returns as a separately listed 10 in the latter part of the State account. This is similar to an overview published in each year's budget. The minority points out that the overview is unreexamined, as previously observed. Other comments made by the lesser part are that the latter part of the terms shall contain sum up financial information on the Member State and key figures from the annual accounts of the Member States in Part A, B, and C. At the same time as the release of a government account at any time, the Commission shall publicly publish annual accounts of the individual Member States in Part A, B, and C. The minority points out that consultations have not been made as to what information is useful to the budget for the implementation of its surveillance role. In this way, only the information that the Commission believes is clearly a picture of the financial stakeholders. Such a self-assessment of what constitutes helpful information is not adequate. Finally, it is only a matter of perspective on the state of performance, the use of financial resources in connection with investments, Land Hospitals, and Vega's work. In view of the scope of the work, it is stated by the Government polls that there is no internal accountant at the National Hospital. In the same way, the rate of the roadmaking on the annual bill has been impaired. This is of interest in the fact that more than a portion of approved investments flows to the land hospital on the one hand, in connection with the construction of a new hospital, and the road structure, on the other hand, due to transportation, and the lack of success in using such sources. Tafin has been on a project, and it seems that it is difficult to accomplish something. So the smaller part has expressed interest in obtaining analysis of public capital abilities at the time of ◯phagac investments. Clearly, the process needs to be corrected and the smaller part requires that the road account be given at the right time and that internal revision in the Land hospital is not appropriate. As a result, my share of legal committees ends. It is interesting to examine the Land Hospital in this context and now this new project that has been going on at the Ring Road. When the economy began to reach the so - called soft landing, as some executives then put it, action was interrupted by the hole that may have passed - perhaps - because there was much else to be done on the same property. There were other things that could be done at the same time, but it was simply not done. In any case, all the information I have considered suggests that the project was simply postponed and found a reason, that there was a delay, rather than actually a decision to postpone it. I find it serious when governments act that way and think it is somehow impossible, unfortunately, to find out how that decision was actually made. Based on what I've been getting into conversation with an agent just by walking into the area and asking: 'What's going on here? It's like all the authority I have on this. I have no reason to question those people who said this to me, none. I cannot help but ask the government why they put Popsa on the construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Road. I think it was in 2020, if not 2019 too, following a slight impact on the economy, and a new financial policy had to be agreed on by the fall of one airline and a failed catchup on the fur. This is the position we have in the balance sheet. This is, of course, an opinion of the funds approved by the Council, but the problem we have is that we don't know what these resources mean. Although a State Accounting Accounting came to say that there were 50 billion approved and there were 50 billion or 40 or whatever it is, that doesn't really mean anything to us except that the budget was used. The question we should always ask is, Why did these means of living, no less than that? That's never the answer. According to the government laws on public finances, this is to be answered by government policies that are to be set up for cost, profit analysis, choice - making, and priorities. It's all there is to it. We'll never get it. Only by having it in hand, under government laws, can we determine whether government policy is turning us in a more favorable direction than other ideas offered. Only in this way can we find out that if our staging was simply wrong - that happens, that's fine. The bosses didn't make it, and then we'll have time to say, "Hey, this isn't good enough, jump it up before we get sunken costs and change, make it different, 'cause it's more economical for a long time. You can see that, for example. With the land hospital building, its location is amazingly strange. It was never explained why this was an acceptable location, because there was no option analysis, a real option analysis. The first choice analysis was performed at the turn of the century. Then a choice was to be made between three places; by Ring Road, in Fos Sow, or somewhere else. The conclusion was: If not somewhere else, then in Fos Cove. Then a new decision had to be made, for it was clearly not what the government wanted. It was then to add to the analysis positive motivation to keep the hospital near downtown and near the university. Then, the Ring Course suddenly got enough weight to be a good location for the hospital. It was a designer, ordered report, as it has often been called. These are the only reasons you can see that the Ringway has been a perfect location for access to anyone who wants to take advantage of the Land Hospital. They're talking about the neighborhood of the airport. That is not sound reasoning, it would be far away even if the hospital was up in Reykjavík or in the capital area. And if it were right up above the capital area, then access to nearby rural areas, Southes would be up to the city's fun, and Ac Arane, much better, and shorter distances. There would be no need to slide through the flounder that is down in a town that has been designed to produce a bottleneck because it is so hard to deal with the road construction, a vast highway, a Bove Road, that controls all this traffic, and other factors. You know, it's a good point to discuss your credit, but I think that the larger questions about why these are the ones that we need to focus more on and answer more. We'll also be able to do more research on the balance of state accounts when it comes to all things, because we know what resources we're talking about in connection with the laws and services and rights we're accepting here in a larger context of law for the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u60	A respectable president. I'm not going back in a natural sense, but I'd like to thank you. A senator for the excellent history of minor opinion on the confirmation of a state account. I heard he mentioned Reykjavíkur Airport at the end and the new construction of the Land Hospital. I'm not going to talk about it, but I really want to talk about it. But it is obvious, and I read the reports at the time, that there was supposed to be a new Landfield hospital built on the property of the City Hospital, where there is room from New York Road to the radio house, a vast flood of land, and an awesome location, but there were other views behind it. I've read the reports, they've been a real mess, and I never had any comment, but I know it was out of Reykjavík. I'm a great fan of the Reykjavík airport, but you can hardly mention it inaccessible. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who is tried on a budget board for a time to make contributions on the validation of a federal account. Now we're dealing with government bills by 2020, and I think it's a huge history. Hv. A senator mentioned that this should be done in the spring as well as other annual accounts. First, how easy it is to do so, to point to experience! Second, should we not simply have legal requirements? Third, I believe the smaller part should at least require confirmation of the budget for 2021 to be submitted to this spring. I'll tell you why. The signing of a government accountant's bank account is about our now drawing a picture of the financial status of the state's budget by 2020. We haven't had any evidence of the financial status of a state fund in the past year. I just want to reiterate how important it would be to talk about the money. I believe that we should unite in that, in cooperation with most of the body and a financial committee as a whole, that the government account will be submitted at the proper time, and then in the spring of the following year, and hopefully we'll see our last year's bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u61	President. I feel like this 30-year-old is way too long. We talked about this, though, quite often, that it would be too late to do something about this. But nothing has happened yet. I don't know what they're trying to do. At any rate, the result is not according to the calling. This bill and a review report come naturally at the time that we would have discussed it in the fall if the election had not been at such a strange time. There is something else that we need to consider, if this is to be the permanent election date, it does not work that the budget is submitted and adopted in the autumn. Then it's crazy. Then we have to do what other northern nations do, I think, and accept the next year's budget in the spring. It's an election in the fall. It's the timing I see in this. We'll have to put together and we'll be able to finish the previous year before we start to see how the next year is going. Is there anything you should be sure of? And we will begin to examine how the frame for the next year is in a financial program designed to be set out in the beginning of April and will be provided in May or June or so. Then we should have a bill of government to see on what basis next year's budgets come to build, e.g. On the implementation of documents due to a number of factors, as has been entered earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u62	A respectable president. There's a lot to learn when you get new into the council. For me, as an executive of the Economic and Business Committee and as an officer of the budget board, time to adapt has been short and quick. We had to agree with the budget on very short notice. Since then, labour market support initiatives have introduced companies into the economic and business committees for processing. Getting a so-called government bill for 2020 at this point, I find that I'm a client. It's as if it doesn't have the same rules for state power as it does for locals. Farmers need to take their budget for discussion and payment at the specified time, and the revised annual bill should have been submitted, revised, and prepared to be paid no later than April 15th of each year. A rural management shall have completed the annual accounts of rural, rural, and corporate institutions no later than May 15 per year, as stated in the County Government Act. The same rules do not seem to apply to societies. State account should be published within six months of the end of the year, but there is no limit to when it should be confirmed. Only it is required that a minister submit a bill of validation. Today, in February 2022, it is, prior to the 2020 account year. In addition, certain shares of government account are not revised. Hence, it is not possible to say with full certainty that the account is just set. Organizations, organisations and various operators are proposed for the implementation of revised annual accounts, according to international accounts, but the types of persons responsible for the law do not seem to apply the same rules. A respectable president. I would like to take part in presenting a committee opinion on this matter. But since I am only an officer of the budget board, I agree to declare the support of the committee's opinion expressed by the representatives of Pirata, the United States of Groups, and the Gangs of the People. There's some good tips for improvement that I don't seem to be unnecessary. It is remarkable to put this account forward a year after the end of an accounting year so that words are not made strong. It is hoped that a person can be optimistic about the future changes in his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u63	A respectable president. I'm not going to go over what my item has sent away and thank you. A senator for reviewing our priorities here. In view of the fact that we are now only going through the story, I would like to address a few things. The account and the passage he made may sound like an incredibly dry phenomenon, and there certainly are many things very dry in this case. But there are also things that make you think about how things happen. What may have stood next to me was the fact that the two organizations, such as fraught. A member of the U.S. Senate conducted a minority study, which provided the biggest investments in 2020, the Landsports, and the Vegas, will receive comments from a public accountant, on the other hand, that the National Hospital does not have an internal accountant and, if it is possible, a decision has been made, made on the accounts of Vega. Certain figures do not seem to match what a government accountant would want to see. I'm not going to go into the technical aspects of it, but it's supposed to make us think about it because it's the big amount. Like what? The head of the legal committee has reviewed them as members of the Committee now discussing these issues, investment conflicts, and the like, and we know for sure, we have been told by the Ministry of finance that there is a group at work that is going over investments and investments. You wonder, " Is this a temporary job or something that should be going on at a time because it is an incredibly high figure? ' I especially call attention to this because there are a lot of things that are being done in government today that were done before, and that is why there are things here to improve, to form an increased awareness of the importance and nature of investments. It is now, for example. Starting to settle into the balance sheet and register state property. In the past, we were always talking about money out of a government fund. Money is, in effect, put the same symbol between investment spending and business spending when it is approved. It was that way in an earlier balance account, although we quite know that government is not comparable to corporate business, it is, of course, completely different. A company that doesn't invest for years but gives up the rest, all investors know that there is no future for that company. There have been some problems, especially when it comes to investments, which have been revised over the years. That's why this situation was a bit in my head about these investment privileges, which have been ruined but are somehow falling back in now. I also mention this in the context that we are discussing the future in terms of public financial laws and that there is some kind of forethought. It is one thing to contribute long - term financial plans on the business side because, in some respects, a large part of the management spending is relatively predictable. Our system is heavy and large, it is calculated in terms of prices, and there are some things that are really possible there. The use of funds is so self - thought - provoking because it is a payment. Investments are not of that nature. They can be intertwining, things can happen. What may be worst of the traditional scheme under the budget is the fear of engaging in a major investment project. It is anxious that one year, crazy palaces will come upon a treasure, and the result will be far worse than previously thought. It has, for example. According to historical evidence, it was the practice to store up an investment at a government fund so that there could be an effort to cover over significant changes in expenses. This is a problem because we do not live in a system where investments can always be equal in nature. There are things to come up, but then, of course, we should keep up - to - date. What I take away, and I think it's a thought for us on the committee, about how we work out not only this year but also the ideal period, how we generally look at investments and how they are handled in business. Is there any more reason to reduce, as I mentioned here in answer to why? The head of a budget committee, investments when it comes to expenses and debts, but also only in terms of budgets? Do we have a different view of investments than business spending? We know that e.g. Of course, the collection of money that comes with investments is completely different from the gross expenses. I mention in the context of what has also attracted my attention, that, as much as I put on transparency and forethought and the like in the law on public finances, committees have also been made available after asking questions such as this. analysis of expenses and such, that there appears to be no sensitive analysis of the financial expenses. I'm especially saying this because there's a lot of talk about filing and inflation and what has a positive or negative effect on the economy. What really matters in government business and about activity is expansion, it's inflation, it affects each other. It is not necessarily just a year and a year. This is something that I would like to see change into the law on public finances. That year, it would have been interesting to see certain sensitivity analyses on this subject. These are the points that were sitting in my head after reading government accounts, these large amounts of money in my investment, and the way budgets go from year to year. Despite our being here to make political decisions, of course, it is not possible to channel everything - public financial laws try to make it up to some extent - they also need to make political decisions and often be marked, when it comes to investments, with very large amounts of money. I think it is important that at this time of the election, a financial committee considers how we can only change our work's arrangement and possible laws on public finances to take into account this natural reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u64	A respectable president. I want to say something. A senator in front of me. In terms of the government bill, I find the timing strange, laying the bill to legalize the validation of the state bill by 2020 this January, and the discussion takes place on February 1, 2022, is just too late. I believe this is a history that has simply become very old regarding all economic discussions. Of course it has to be done and it's better late than never, but it can't happen again. I believe that the objective of the secretary of finance should be to contribute this in every spring after the following year. Let's hope we see now the bill to legalize the state account by 2021. Why do I say that? For example, this has been shown during the discussion. This year's budget, 2022 C.E., was submitted without confirmation of a government account prior to the preceding year. The first part of the financial bill is usually about delivery, balance, cash flows, overview of the change of money, overview of the management of causes, etc. In the latter part, there are special statements and divisions, which provide further information on the terms of the money. It is very important that we illustrate the state of the State Fund in the preceding year when next year's budget is being provided. That's basic. It's just gonna have to be like that. When a bill is submitted before the next year, we must have a valid account confirmed by the previous year. It wasn't the last time. This wasn't done in December, then he wasn't in the room, so we're in the discussion right now. The timing is absolutely essential. It's a combination. We have a financial plan, we have financial policy, we have government bills, and then we have budgets. Everything needs to talk. The financial account is on the facts, these are facts, and then it is signed by a government accountant. There are some tips that have been cited, related to the visa, and I think it is unnecessary to discuss it further. It was also shown in the history of the chairman of the legal committee that there are many things that are not clear, if I understand them correctly. There are things I would like to discuss, e.g. about an internal accountant. There is no internal accountant at a hospital, and everyone agrees that there should be an internal accountant, and there will be an internal accountant. I think it's very important that this arrangement establishes all the major institutions. I think that should put an internal accountant on as most of the state's institutions that are on the larger side. Then there is no need to be one employee, one internal accountant, at each institution. It may well be possible to have an internal accountant serving several smaller institutions, perhaps serving five or six institutions, and then we have an internal accountant in many institutions. Such an internal accountant could give many institutions a very important advice on the development of quality processes, and he could give very great tips to the management institutions to improve the work of accounting and other such. It can also be about the overall business. So I think we should unite that it is not just the Landsspians and the world's largest institutions who have such services but as most institutions. This is done in connection with many other laws. I can take the protection law as an example. There's a personal protective agent in all major institutions, but there's also a law that a personal agent can serve many companies. It is an enormously united force in similar institutions. This is something I believe is very important to improve government business and improve the internal accounting of the institutions of the state. I'm just going to do a little more research on this with the timing, and it should be easy work and lazy to submit another bill to legalize the validation of a previous year, i.e. in 2021. Why do I say that? Because, as well as you can see on the bill, there is talk of government income development during a pandemic. We were in a pandemic in 2020. We were also in the pandemic last year, 2021. The circumstances are very similar. For the same reason, tax collectors likely grew less, and for the same reason, income grew more. I can do a bill example, with the permission of a president: At the same time, there was an increase in income tax consumption due to the individual authority to take out the special property savings. This is probably the same thing last year, so it's a very similar year, 2000 and 2021, on the government law. At least it would be very informative to find out what the difference is, he's very small to me. We were in a pandemic both these years, this is the highlight of the pandemic we are about to sail out of. Clearly, the beginning of the end has begun, and hopefully we'll finish this before the summer. There's also one important thing to do, and I want to come in. It's about the investments. Because of Covid, vast sums of money were put into investments. Iceland is a small community that does not have a strong government, and it is not our strongest aspect of making large plans or molding policies that are then technically introduced. But I believe there can be much to learn from the investment campaign being carried out by Covid. When it comes to investments, a great deal of preparation is needed. It takes time. Not even a few years later, putting tens of millions of dollars into a particular investment may be involved in the economy. The planning is very important, it's the planning, it's a environmental assessment law. The project needs to be designed, and it needs to be asked out. Then there's another, especially on a normal year's trip, and there's a shortage of labor. So I think we're gonna have to take this over and over. If there's a huge project going into Iceland, you have to import workers. We can take Krumbling as a classic example, there were very few Icelanders who were working on that project. In terms of preparation, investment policies must be developed in an investment plan. Preparation is key. I was able to give an example of a project done for several decades, and a report on the performance of the past week, a social and economic report on the Sunway, was published. Yes, the mayor and secretary of the wood came into hand, and it was all in the media. However, the decision has not yet been made whether a tunnel or a bridge is needed. The preparation is complete, starting 2026 and ending 2031, but the design of a tunnel or a bridge has not been determined. This is fundamental. You need to know what the money's going to go to, what to invest. You need to know exactly how the function is supposed to be. All the preparations in my mind are not started on this project, but there are already some topics, and there are reports on the project, including A road type report showing that there are 14 billion different bridges and tunnels. But decisions haven't been made. When such an investment project, put a coin in it, you also need to decide what to do. It must be done accurately. It takes e.g. To decide whether to build a bridge or a tunnel. The road must have a vision of the future, and the Allied Council of Iceland needs an extended view of the future in planning for infrastructure and other projects. Transporting plans are good, but there must also be a second plan, which has an even longer period, which is a kind of vision. Thus, we can have a transport plan and, on the other hand, a vision of transport, which has an even longer lengthy period of time that can be exported on a much wider scale than technical development to either build a bridge here or there or a tunnel or something like that. I'll stop for now and thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u65	President. I'm going to come in for a moment. At the end of the talk, a senator mentioned the vision of the future. The long - term economic outlook is fundamental to the way we organize government affairs and achieve the fundamental changes we will see to come, e.g. to plan how many nurses need and so many nurses. Now we have a five - year transport program, followed by a 15 - year transport program. Like what? A senator rightly points out that 15 - year - old transport program is not really enough. In view of our present situation, we would need to keep in front of ourselves what the transportation system would be like if it were simply perfect. How would it be if it were just ready and only had to be done? Of course, the demographic changes, the development of crowds, and the like would influence the image of the perfect transport system and technology and, of course, other things that are being worked on in the future. But if we don't have anything to say: This is the way we want it to be when it's done, then we don't have enough goals to plan a five - or 15 - year - old transportation program. That's the problem here. I found out during the last term, when I asked about road species in Iceland, that there is a type of C7 or C8 recommended between two places off traffic levels, etc. So this is where the road is based, and it is in the road file of the desired type. Then I asked the Roadmaker, "What is a real type of road? " The answer was: We do not know. The road does not know which road it has built and cannot show us what conditions are now. It's the big craze.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What's a plan? We have two plans, a five-year plan and a 15-year plan, on transportation. Plan is a plan, you're going to do something, you're going to achieve some goal, plan is a way to aim, in everything. If you're going to college, you're going to make a plan on how you're going to get to college. And I agree completely with what. Senator, we need to clarify our objective. What kind of transport do we want in Iceland? What kind of transportation do we want? That goal is decades, decades. I watched a lot of politics up to 2000. It was the goal of drawing up a tunnel in Iceland, and it was just laughing at it, working on two tunnels at once, working at two places at once. Today we have 10 tunnels. In Norway, there are fewer than 1,200 of them. It is fundamental to have a clear objective, to draw it up. That's the future. That's the perfect road transport system for Iceland. It's a vision we have in front of us, and then we have a plan to approach it. There is another thing that I think is very important in transportation, that transportation will be used to meet the conditions for living. It will only be defined as being equal to the residence conditions. If I live in the country, I'd like to have the conditions of the capital area. What does that mean? What's the theme of it, what kind of road transport is it? Should my child have to cross the third world road to school every morning, as if you've seen pictures of them on community media, holes that you don't almost believe are there? [[The president calls.]] I agree with this, it's important to have the sample, and you could have a discussion about it here in such a policy agency as the World Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u67	President. This is the very essence of the law on public finances that we are discussing here, one of the ones in the state account. Perhaps some Spanish person can see why we are talking about long - term vision in transport discussions about government bills, but that is because we are also a surveillance agency. We're in charge of the budget procedure. At least it's my opinion that in a federal account, there's something being considered on the basis of financial contributions. If anything, this is the biggest operation we're going to take on review of how financial resources are being used. They're always in relation to plans. What's the overall plan? What are the budgets for the next five years, as it is in financial planning? How does it resist the laws of the land, and how was this applied according to a government account? We can see just how much money money on investment projects was not used. We see this in official innovation projects, technology funds and research funds, etc., far beyond the financial resources available. You wonder if we should agree to the more open resources for such projects, as is the case with Dr. ... withemployment. If people get out of work, they get unemployment insurance no matter what the budget is. [[The president calls.]] If there are extremely good applications in Technical Development Funds, should we not just give their financial resources? [[The president calls.]] These are questions that we sometimes need to answer in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I look at our discussions, transportation and transport plans, as part of a discussion under the state's past investments. I believe the funds put into investments by the land of Covid, the pandemic, the huge sum of money - that was a good thing to do behind it. There was nothing wrong with doing that, but it turned out that investment ability was not there. There was no way to get the money to work. These are two things. First of all, about your investment ability, it just needs to be examined carefully. What is needed? A balanced view of transport needs to be given. It's all necessary. We can't just be going over the plans and plan, we need to know where to go and what to do. We need to draw a larger view of transportation on the map so that it is in place and out of residence conditions and all of them, a small nation in a large country and everything. For other factors, first, I feel that it is important to have discipline in terms of government matters and that the soil needs to be prepared better. In this case, an analysis of the CV and also of the investments needs to be made. We need to learn a lesson from this. If money is first pumped out, then there must be a very clear goal, too, a real vision at hand. In terms of the current global financial situation, this should be taken up in a report by the Allied Research Committee, a council panel should be set up to investigate the effect of the pandemic and the government's response to it. There's Norse already done. That's what the British have done. I believe it is very important that such a report be made on the basis of the council and it will be the General Assembly of the Icelanders as a ship on the committee as after the collapse. [[The president calls.]] And that's not what I'm talking about to find fault. It's to learn from it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u69	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on the affairs of immigrants. Is this the third time this bill is submitted here, though in a slightly different picture now. On November 28, 2012, the law on immigrants'affairs went into effect, but their goal is to promote a community where all can be active participants regardless of nationality or background. This aim is achieved by integrating the best interests of immigrants in all policies, administration and public services, promoting wide cooperation, promoting education and sharing of information, and supporting the research and development projects on the affairs of immigrants. The bill suggests two changes in the law, one of the changes to the role of a multicultural site in the concert of refugees and the change in the commission to the embargo council. In recent years, there have been significant changes in the number of people who come to the country on their own and who receive international protection or housing on the basis of their rich humanitarian views. In the past two years, more than 1,200 individuals have been recognized as refugees or are granted permanent clearances on the basis of rich humanitarian views. These subjects have arrived with rights which include: is specified in law on local social services and health insurance laws but it is not specifically discussed with refugees on the legal matters of immigrants. Until 2021, there was not a formal welcome system for refugees who came to the country on their own but only for refugees who came here by government to cooperate with the United Nations Refugee Organization. The explanation is that until recently, there was a relatively small group. There has been a well - received welcome by people in the government, but there is a greater need for those who come here on their own to take their first steps in society through increased social counseling, social instruction, and Icelandic education. Then the composition of the group has become ever more diverse than in recent years, not only those two previously mentioned groups but also individuals who received special invitations from the Icelandic government because of the emergency of the Taliban's takeover of the Taliban in Afghanistan. In accordance with the government's last government contract and the synopsis of a move-in plan on the affairs of immigrants, they were working to reconcile the welcome of refugees regardless of how they get to the country. In fact, all refugees need additional support to take their first steps in a new society. A report on the concerted welcome of refugees was published in January 2019. This report suggested an integrated welcome system for refugees and provides the development of this bill. The Commission's proposal for the concerted reception of refugees can be divided into three main places. First, the Department of Social Affairs negotiates contracts with reception companies for increased assistance and services with refugees, including those involved. to appoint managers in case matters of individuals in order to ensure intertwinment in a service based on an individual plan. Now there have been a contract with five companies and a trial project has begun. Second, it was suggested that the Work Programme receives additional roles, caring for community education and Icelandic training for refugees, providing study and employment advice, as well as help with job search and other activities. A financial agency is now offering extensive community education for refugees and Icelandic students. A total of 597 individuals had a national protection program at the labour oce last year. Of these, 513 were looking for a job, nearly half started work that year. Third, the Commission's suggestions are that the Multi-Screets get additional roles in linking refugees and welcome groups who have made a deal with the Ministry of Social Affairs. This bill takes on this latter point. A respectable president. By bill this, the Multicultural Network is entrusted with additional roles in harmony with the Commission's proposal for the concerted welcome of refugees. A multicultural site is assigned to give professional advice to local communities regarding the acceptance of refugees and the education of professionals. The new role of the Agency must be maintained on the invitation of welcome organisations, housing and services, based on the available information and on specific factors, such as the possibility of study, access to necessary health care, employment opportunities and transportation. For this reason, it is necessary to have access to needed information, on the other hand, on the welcome of the companies and on the other hand, on the members of the U.S. National Institutes. and on the other hand, as appropriate. It is important that the authority of the Multi-Creation Centre on Information and Media is clearly stated so that the Agency can perform this new role. Examples of such information are basic information about individuals with education, family interests, previous employment, future expectations, and health information. As mentioned earlier, experience is the sea, and five societies are involved. Societyal communities provide protection to those who have been protected for the first steps in society and to all who have been protected since March 1, 2021. The individuals who were protected after March 1, 2020, and who were included in the rural areas involved in the project were also invited to participate in the trial program. Although most of the project is successful, the results of the addition of a multicultural site have not yet been given the necessary authority to process personal information. As a result, the reception will not be as specific as it would otherwise have been. It is important, then, that this bill be accepted so that the Multicultural Network can play the role of connecting individuals and group members to adjust the course to the best possible outcome. The bill also suggests a change in Article 4. The law is about immigrants'Council. By displacing the Ministry of Health at the end of 2018, at the Department of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs on the other hand, a representative of the Department of Health at the council fell. Since the role of the Council is to promote coordination and coordination between recruitment, rural society and the management board, it is important that the health secretary's representative be in charge, and it is proposed to correct matters. The bill was presented by government consultations and received two reviews. Then the bill received extensive and good coverage on a welfare committee when it was submitted to the last council and offered thanks to the Committee for a careful discussion. As a result, changes were made to the bill presented so that the role of a multicultural site was cut off and better defined which party falls under a consistent reception. In view of the trial project, changes in the cost estimates of the bill have been made. At the beginning, two employees were expected to care for a consistent reception at the MultiSpecies site, but it has been found that three employees are needed, as well as what has now been expected for interpretation and education costs. It may be that from the beginning of this project, over 1,000 people have been involved in the project on the concerted reception of refugees. The trial project has shown the importance of being well received by individuals who are protected in the country and underlining the new political treaty of this government that a united group of refugees will be strengthened further. The bill suggests that a multicultural facility will provide professional counseling and counseling in connection with the reception of protective individuals, but to ensure a successful adjustment, there must also be good cooperation between state and rural society in the ministry. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u70	President. I just wanted to come up here and discuss only the excellent bill that is being presented here, and to encourage the Senate to promote it in the council because of the very important issues involved. The bill is really very simple, and it is about providing the Media site with the authority it needs to do its job, i.e. Be a contact between immigrants and rurals. It's just that it's very important. This united convention is at the highest level. A minister came in earlier, and now in a probationary process, has given way to great success and is a very positive change. In order for that assignment to be carried out in a legal way, this change is needed, and I am delighted with it deeply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u71	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Vagn the son of Stefánsson's chariot for this matter. I agree with him that the matter is important. It's as simple as a whale. A senator came in. It is simply being measured to allow for greater authority to better pair the individuals through protection and the communities most capable of fulfilling the services needed for that individual. I agree with that. A senator about what he came in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u72	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. As I said before, it is a very simple matter, and I really hope that in this room we don't get involved or stretch it out of what it's about. It is simply a matter of granting a multicultural permission to represent the personal information of the individuals in question, simply to facilitate the coming, whether by their own means or by the government, through the anxiety system, the way through our system. It's important that the people who come here get as good a service as possible. This concerted reception, as well as strengthening the multicultural status of the tasks listed here to carry out that assignment, is a very positive step, an important and positive change in this system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u73	A respectable president. I think the step we can take is that we accept this bill, perhaps most important, in order to accept even more fully the people who have been protected here. I'll be back with what. A senator, it is important to gain this point so that we can strengthen a place in the role it has to play. I think we are simply trying to coordinate more fully and to accept more fully those who have been given protection, better care for the needs of each individual. This project, this research project, with a consistent welcome from the rural community, has been successful but we need this authority for the Agency to call for personal information.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u74	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. There are some things that need to be considered in this context. I would like to be clear, to ask: To this bill to agree, as it is available, then, are the rights of individuals protected in all the rights of individuals who come here under the cryonics system? This is the first question. The second question is: I can't see that the Ministry of Justice, or the Department of Internal Affairs as it is known today, has been specifically included in the advice on possible impacts and assessments whether the change in the bill could affect what is called the qualification of factor and the willingness to apply for asylum in Iceland as compared to other countries. Was this examined to some extent by the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u75	V.E.G. President. To answer the previous question, why? The senator, then, is the answer: Yes, it is in line with the rights that are enjoyed on the other hand by the greeting and by those who are protected in a different way. For example, there are certain rights involved in this consistent welcome - i.e. the opportunity to bring together the right individuals and the right societies - the same as protection. I'll come to the second question why. A senator will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u76	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for. He may later give up the second question, for I'm more interested in asking the highest. A minister of something else, in view of the considerable increase in their rights as an additional member of this bill. Chapter 6 of the report on impact assessment, says, by permission of the president: ▪ It is assumed that the new projects of the Multicultural Network will require three additional positions as well as a work-related cost of about 40.8 billion each year. K. as well as the cost of single - trade money to $1 billion. K.◯ Tells you the highest. Minister indeed that there will be no secondary effect of this bill approved? Tells you the highest. Minister that there is no puglefactor in this? And what does that count? So, then, the minister to explain the vast number of shelters, proportionately, in this country compared to the northern countries, for example? That's definitely not the weather.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u77	V.E.G. President. About a question why. A senator's assessment of impact is the cost assessment of the Ministry and the changes being proposed in the bill, i.e. that there is an increased role for counselling, for the service of trustees and rural groups. I believe that the Ministry assessment is realistic, especially since the project has now been continued for a considerable period of time as a trial project. Experience shows that it is necessary to have three standards plus any cost of induction. I think I have to let go of the other question. A senator hoping that he will agree with that because he actually asked for it himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u78	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of the speech. I don't make comments about the change in the role of a multicultural site, that's doing good things. But I'd like to know what this added service is, which is to be given to those who take refuge and those who do so in comparison with the eaters. The bill involves a fundamental change. In other words, there is no variation in hostilities and trustees who are granted leaves when it comes to service. I think the highest. Minister hasn't answered a question yet. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son asked how this would affect candidates for global protection. At least I didn't think it was clear. Has there been a plan for that? It is improving the ministry, and is it not to conclude that this includes increasing the interest of refugees in coming here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u79	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Here, the senator asks what was commonly discussed at the previous council, i.e.: Will candidates increase their number? In my opinion and in the opinion of the Ministry it should not happen from this bill. The unit with the bill is simply giving the Multicultural Sources to review information, on the other hand, about a local society and about a person who has been protected, and a pairing together so that the services of a rural society can be most useful to the individual's needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u80	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister will answer, but I don't think he's brought up any of this service. What is being added to those taking refuge? I feel very vague in this bill what its real effect is, and I think it is very important to get answers to it. It must also cost something to expand this ministry. It can't be that it costs just the standards mentioned here, any three standards, I think, something must cost the ministry more. There must be some plan on the amount, and predicting that the number of applications will double over the next three to four years. So there must be some cost and need to be in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u81	V.E.G. President. Just to make it perfectly clear, the service that is added by this uniform welcome, as we are giving greetings and those who come on their own from a similar service, to social counseling. This is community education, Icelandic instruction, but we don't think it's going to increase the number of candidates. In terms of the costs listed here, we feel that this is a realistic assessment of what the bill has to say. But, of course, the services being performed on the basis of agreements with rural society are based on the local community service legislation. The system will probably be more efficient at this and the system will be better, and we will be better serving the people who come here, no matter how they get here, and they are human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u82	A respectable president. According to the latest figures of the United Nations Refugee Organization, 82.4 million people have fled their homes. Under that number, some 20.7 million are identified as refugees, as well as 5.7 million Palestinians who have lived in refugee camps for decades. Some 48 million people are on the run in their own land, but most of them are fleeing from war or natural disasters. Added to this is 4.1 million who have defined the position of the trustees and 3.9 million people of Venezuela who have visited other countries of South America. Some 86% of these individuals are still in developing countries, but only about 14% have fled to rich countries. Some 73% are in the neighboring countries of their country. It is also interesting to note that about 68% of refugees are from five countries: Syria, Venezuela, Afghanistan, South Sudan, Myanmar. It is also interesting that although about 30% of the world's population are children, 42% of the refugees are children and youths. Fleeing from their homeland, whether because of conflict, climate change, inequities, hate crimes, or for any other reason, is never an easy decision. A few days ago, in a symposium about Sara's life, an 18 - year - old girl who fled from sexual violence and mutilation in her homeland, I was raped every day for a year after being imprisoned for no reason in Libya. Today, I'd like to tell the story of a 14-year-old named Omar. On December 31, 2000, Omar, his mother, Hysia, and his younger brother Mohamet, who was nine years old, tried to cross the Mediterranean. They set out in a small boat from the city of Oran on the coast of Algeria, along with 13 other refugees. In the beginning, the trip went well, but as the coast of Spain approached, the weather conditions deteriorated. There was a great fog, and the slides were greatly reduced. Suddenly, there was a big wave. Probably a large ship was sailing near them. Their boat turned down about two o'clock in the morning on New Year's Day off the coast of Andalusia. All aboard were in the water. Hysia tried everything to save her two children. She got hold of an empty gas can, and they used it to stay in the water. But it was not long before the younger son lost his grip, and Hysia swam after him. Omar held onto his gas can and saw them disappear into the mist. The next morning, Omari was rescued aboard a freighter passing by. He had then stayed in the gas can for over seven hours. When Omar was saved aboard the freighter, he was closer to death than to life, but they succeeded in warming him and feeding him. The freighter called up a protective ship from Algeria, and they took it back to Oran. Omar was saved, but Hysia and her younger son returned to the sea. Sadly, Omars, Hysiu, and Mohamets's story is not unique. Hundreds of prostitutes die each year in the Mediterranean Sea. Only a small fraction of the refugees will come here to the end of the world and seek asylum. It is really heroic to look all the way north to the Arctic Circle for a better life, but to these people, Iceland is an equalized country, human kindness, and opportunities; a country where they can provide their family with a secure future and again become citizens in society. The truth is, however, that the way we Icelanders take on and support the trustees is a disgrace. Despite the endless numbers of people in many classes, we row on the human rights of the trustees and kick them out of the country, only because they were born in a less developed country, but we feel that people who come from this country can be separated. Opponents of taking in the human touch of trust always blow up that if we welcome people, or as I would like to call them, in a decent way, they'll come here to put a hole in the shelterers. The truth is, when the EU Convention was made, similar reasons were given to warn of all the terrible foreigners who could come to the country from southern and Eastern Europe. This hole was not at all as large as these parties warned, and it can be said only that the group that came from southern and Eastern Europe up to the country has truly improved and enjoyed our society's well - being, as if they could get the restitutants and refugees who were allowed to settle here. One of the reasons why I decided to change the field of activity and be heard in the political field is the inhuman and direct illegal treatment that we have brought upon the trustees of this country. They are treated in such a terrible way that every time we discuss it, we who feel humane are struck at the heart. Human rights are ruined, and governments do not hold back from throwing people into the sea without any support. All reasons are used to treat these people in an inhuman way. Yes, they are people like us, and I am convinced that no one here would accept such inhuman behaviour as these people have had to experience from the government of this country. This group includes numerous persons from sensitive perimeters, individuals who have suffered violence, whether because of their sex, sex, or sexual expression, borderline groups that have fled their homeland to the Promised Land of Iceland, in which the rights of queer people and sexes are respected. But the rights seem to have not penetrated the walls of the National Institute of Iceland, which brings all of them into question, using the same abuse of power that these people fled in their homeland. There are also over 200 children in this group of trustees in this country that I brought to the attention of the General Assembly before the celebrations, children who have all in common to have applied for protection in Iceland. Many of these are between zero and two years of age, some of whom date an unborn sibling. Many of these children are on their own, and rather than welcome them, we look for the first opportunity to get them out of the country. A respectable president. What kind of society is it that sends people out to the sea, treads on the course of people's rights only because of where they were born, and then does not receive children in distress? That's at least Not a society I want to see here in Iceland, and therefore I will do everything in my power to stop the racist and hate that is part of the nobility that the Government of Katrín the Jacobs Jakobsdóttir has put forth in a confidentiality about the affairs of foreigners.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u83	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I know he's an experienced football when it comes to dealing with refugees in a foreign field, and he's got a lot of good work in that field. I have to say, though, that I thought it was a question. The senator was very interesting, especially the language he used when he said that we were known for our terrible conduct in the welcome of the inmates. I cannot agree with that because it is widely accepted, and has been made clear by the Ministry of Justice, that Iceland provides one of the best services in Europe when it comes to the welcome of refugees and inmates. I don't quite understand this statement. Senator. Besides, he came into queer individuals, that they would get a very bad welcome here. It's so wrong. Senator. This has especially been the case when it comes to the greeting, people who have just been persecuted in their homeland for sexual relations. So I can't see how this claim works. Senator. Furthermore, he says that Rasism and cannibalism are characteristic of the bills presented here. I have to say, Hv. When a senator claims to absorb it, he takes on quite a bit. In the past two years, some 1,200 inmates have come down here, and have been granted a permit, and I don't know any better than they have been given a good service. I have to say, what? A senator, though I don't have a direct question--yes, I think that perhaps. A senator must back up better because I don't think he's up to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u84	A respectable president. Yes, I've seen what these people are running to, and I've seen the situation with them while they're running and coming to this country. That's why I talk about their experiences. I would also like to make a distinction between how we deal with the most successful refugees and how we receive the refugees, especially before they are given protection in this country. Although we have done great things, e.g. to queer and sexy refugees, I know that it has really been violated by the rights of inmates. Yes, I use strong words. I use strong words here in a speech chair, giddy. A senator, because it does not seem to be listened when an international nation is being criticized for the treatment of people who are applying for asylum here. It is not humane when a bill is introduced year after year, which, fortunately, has been controlled by the government, makes it possible for people to be thrown out on the deck 30 days after the decision is issued. That's a violation of human rights to me. That's what I'm critical of. I am criticizing, not how we treat those who have been protected, but how we treat people until that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u85	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I only want to come to the bill for a second. A senator has been mentioned and submitted. That bill includes increased efficiency in this class of good things. I think we can totally agree on that. It is not good when an individual is applying for asylum and needs to wait for months, even for a year, until he is granted a release, and in some cases it becomes apparent that the person does not meet the legal requirements needed to get a permit here. There are some people here who are looking for a better standard of living. Of course, you have respect for it, but that is not a legitimate reason to get a living permit here. There are also people in the country who are looking for work, and there is no legitimate reason to get a living permit here. That bill alone is one way to enhance our efficiency so that we do not share individuals with taxpayers for months until the result is realized that the individual is not entitled to get an asylum here, just for example. I won't slow it down as a boy. A senator said about the circumstances of refugees abroad. I've been working in this sector myself, and I've seen it myself. But there's a time like that, anyway. A senator, that we can't help everyone. There are tens of millions of individuals, refugees, and those who are looking for better living, all over Europe, than those who have come here have had a very good service, and it has been done by the Ministry of Justice, as mentioned earlier, that the service is one of the best services given in Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u86	A respectable president. It was nice to hear. A senator should be effective within the National Institute of Iceland, an institution which since the fall has known that it should submit citizenship applications to the General Assembly, which it even could not have done during this brief period of time that has passed; an institution that does not even look at applications that go through the general procedure until 18 months after being sent in. I think there's something other to fix than the law to correct efficiency in this institution. Yes, people are fleeing for various reasons, but many of those coming here are coming from war - torn lands; Afghanistan, Syria, but we throw them back, Greece, or other countries where they have stopped on our way, because we can. Not because we want to respond in a decent, humanitarian way. No, we'll send them out of the country because we can. These aren't the people who had it. A senator was talking about coming here looking for a job search or looking for a better situation in this regard, economic situation. These are people who come here because they're running from war. They are fleeing from hatred in their homeland. We are responsible for what is going on in Afghanistan, so we should welcome back people who flee from that area, not excuse us each time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u87	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. Now I want to say the word with what. paritaprevir The daughter of Birgir's Þórarinsson when he speaks of his speech. I thought they took a little big into themselves, but all right with it, I'm not going to make any comments about it. On the other hand, I'd like to get to it only, because I now come to these other matters, in the meantime. A senator speaks of an inhumane welcome to refugees. I'll show it to the Fathers. I've worked as chairman of a refugee committee since 2018, and I just don't know that the work that has been done there is in no way inhumane. I wish to have an explanation for this from what happened. A senator whether he is referring to the work of a refugee committee, I would like to be completely clear if not, but especially if so. I agree completely with what. A senator when he speaks of the need to welcome people. Hv. A senator spoke of him contrary to matters coming from the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. However, the matter that we present at the council Hall today is a matter of consistent reception, not to tell whether people come here on their own or through the quatane. I'd like to hear the Senator's opinion of the bill discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u88	A respectable president. If I have said that it was inhumane how to receive refugees, I have resented it. It is inhumane how you respond to those who are taking refuge. I have absolutely nothing to put on a refugee committee, unless more refugees could be received but not the way people have been treated. I agree with you, too. It is important that we welcome those who come here, and it is important that we be in agreement with the way we welcome the refugees and the refugees because we have received very well the refugees. Farmers really deserve to be thanked for the role they have played in welcoming refugees, and they have really accepted people into society. It's really important. It's more than just coming here to the end of the world. And, yes, I agree that this is to be harmonized, but what I'm critical is how we treat those taking refuge before they get consent, and before they fall into this process, which is after they've been given leaveovers. That's what happens before the permit is granted, that's where I believe the government has shown an inhuman attitude toward people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u89	Madam President. First, I want to thank the senator for the answer. I thank him for explaining what he was saying in his speech earlier and thanking him for the fine words he had heard to the refugee committee. I agree with him that she did very well. Because he spoke here, including of queer refugees it was part of our greeting at the time, and has been, taking just queer refugees to the country and having gone very well. I came up here earlier in answer to the highest. One minister who was talking about the importance of discussing this matter was that it would be important for us not to miss the discussion too far away. That's why I called for answers. The senator's attention to the bill discussed here. The language of immigrants is a huge group of paintings, and we could be here all day, discussing the various forms of friendship and the many smells of the big things that are spreading everywhere. What we are here for today is whether we should simply hide the Multicultural site the authority to perform personal information in order to simplify the work of our rural society and the people coming here at this consistent reception that has proved to be extremely effective in the current experience. I reiterate that I find it important, though I know that there are differing opinions and perspectives in the affairs of immigrants, that we are able to make our views quite clear regarding the issues discussed in the meeting today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u90	A respectable president. I think me and what. A senator would agree on a lot of things about this. I know I'm burning for this thing because there are people out there who don't have the opportunity to be heard and who don't have the opportunity to say how badly they're being treated. I'm afraid that the good work we do in behalf of people who are in portents, the good image that it has given, will be destroyed by the bad image we receive of being received in return. I don't want that to happen. Hv. The senator discussed this particular bill. Yes, I can understand that there is a need for a chance that personal information can be obtained from there in order to provide better service. But that's just a violation of everything that needs to be dealt with in all this process. I feel like I'm starting my ass a little bit instead of fixing the system itself when it comes to this. Finally, it is also of vital importance that these issues remain to this day. In fact, when the person is moving between recruitments is still unclear. When to complain about it at the highest. Social and workforce minister and when to the highest level. Minister of Justice? We don't know yet, but hopefully we'll learn, because the list of council and Minister's names is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u91	Madam President. A bill of what we're discussing here involves changing the role of a Multihuman Park centre and is intended to make the Agency a contact between refugees, rural partners and the labour oce. In other words, there is to be increased perspective on the group and, in the same way, a decision-making campaign for services to become more efficient. In addition, the advisory role of the Agency is more important to rural society. I don't make comments about the change in the role of a multicultural facility, that's doing good things today. But in a paper with the bill, it says: A consistent welcome system is involved in ensuring equal services, regardless of how protected individuals arrived in the country... And the primary objective of the bill is to balance the status of refugees, whether in the case of a group of refugees, in the government or in the absence of their own roads or through the family unit of refugees. Hence, the bill does not distinguish between the food force and the trustees who are granted leave to the ministry. This is, Madam President, a fundamental change. What is lacking in my bill is an accurate interpretation of how much this will cost. There is an increase in standard values at the National Institute of Culture, but there is no comment on how much it costs to expand this service. V.E.G. Minister here mentioned Icelandic education and more. There's got to be something to add, and I feel like there's something I don't know about it on the bill. What it takes to expand the ministry is lacking information. In addition, what this additional service consists of in its entirety may be clearer. It is very important to find answers to that question. One of my concerns about the bill is whether this change, this increased service to the temporary residents, could result in the rapid increase in the number of applications here. This means an increase in costs and pressures, requiring the growth of workers in Foreign Institutes, etc. It is very important to find answers to this question. Bear in mind that in neighboring countries, such as Denmark and now the last one in Sweden, there is a targeted policy that fewer inmates will come to these countries. I've said it here, and said it in opposition to earlier, that Iceland has a very good service to those who come here and seek international protection, the only best service in Europe. This is not to say that we are rendering poor service to those seeking refuge, as it were. Madam President. I specifically met with the Foreign Institute recently on this particular point, whether the bill implies that there are more applications here, whether an improved service to the trustees will lead to an increase in international protection applications. The Agency does not think that it is and that other factors, such as the long payoff period, contribute to the increase in the number of applications. I think it's odd to transfer the rights of the hostpower people to the trustees. We are referring, on the one hand, to people whom we agree to agree with the United Nations Refugee Fund and to care for and, on the other, people who come here on their own, who are not aware whether they meet the international conditions of refugees. I'm a spokesman for the fact that we're choosing our own number-of-the-art party here and that it should be the basic element in our policy when it comes to the capture of refugees. Dan's goal has been that no one come there to take refuge, but Dan's men will continue to welcome refugees. I believe we should choose those who are most in need, women and children and families who live in a war - torn environment. To this country, there are a lot of people looking for a better standard of living and looking for a job. I respect it, I respect those who are looking for a better standard of living. But this is once so that there is no legitimate reason for getting a home here, and often in times of need, these individuals do not report it when they come here, that is well known. They then enter the system, and it takes months for them to be confirmed that they are not entitled to a home. This long pay period attracts candidates for international protection to the country. That's the conclusion of the Foreign Institute. This needs to be taken. During this long period of payment, it is a government fund, the taxpayers that pay, housing, money, health care, etc. In my opinion, money could be made much better for those who are truly in need. It is therefore very important to have a higher effectiveness of a country on application process, and it is necessary to shorten this time of payment, which is way too long. We often discuss it here at the council Hall what could be done better for the government. We'll talk, for example. how much better you could go in your medical system, which requires a lot of money. However, when we mention that much better is involved in the security system, there is nothing to be done about it. The search system in Iceland is a man's job and it has to be fixed, right? A foreign agency has predicted a number of candidates for international protection in the coming years, and this means that in a few years the number of applications will be substantially increasing, they will double. Similarly, the cost will vary from 3 billion today to 7 billion. We cannot ignore such predictions and when it becomes clear where we are heading. I certainly believe that, Madam President, we are helping those living under a miserable situation in war - torn areas. However, we cannot help everyone, and we know that well. We must make the best use of the limited resources we have. We do not do this by keeping people alive for months while they wait for their release, and it turns out that the person may not be entitled to an asylum. This needs to be changed. We can help as many people as possible by working with international institutions in this area. More and more people are benefiting from sending money to institutions helping people in war - torn areas. For each of the inmates here, it is possible to help up to 12 members of the international community. These figures come from the United Nations Refugee Fund. Icelanders have responded to the hosting of comets. They come frequently from war - torn lands, and we continue to care for that group and help with its adjustment in Icelandic society. But a man asks himself, Madam President: Are the governments prepared to predict the Foreign Institute, the significant increase in the number of trustees, to follow? A few years ago, some 6,000 refugees came to the border between Russia and Norway over several weeks and followed by their rules. It is quite possible that we could be in the same situation compared to the U.S. National Institute for International Protection. The Ministry of Justice has published that the number of candidates for international protection in Iceland has become one of the largest in Europe, the largest in the north, on the appeal number. In Iceland the applications have become about 24 per 10,000 people, in the north, from four to six. Everyone sees it doesn't work out to the length. I think we're supposed to follow these North countries, and we've got a problem to deal with. The management board is unable to provide applications within adequate time, and direct costs for the forward of trust seekers are increasing rapidly. It is urgent to simplify and speed the application procedure so that the efficiency and shortening of the treatment period can be enhanced and the unnecessary expenses for the state funds. There is an enormous cost to lawyers, rents, security, and so forth while people are waiting for a decision, and people who in many cases have no right to get a living permit because they came on false grounds. We are under obligation to assist the needy with prisoners in view of the small nation, and we are also required to make sure that the system is not abused. As I mentioned earlier, there are better things to go to our security system, and we should not be afraid to discuss it. We'll discuss what could be done better in the health system, etc., but members of Congress are very sensitive to the possibility of taking advantage of the security system in some way, are presenting false information, etc. It's just something we have to look at. After all, all systems are human work, and they can be fixed. If we look e.g. to Norway in 2004, a so - called 48 - hour rule was taken in order to desecrate applications just to reduce unprovoked applications and make the system more efficient. These countries, e.g. Norway, advertise specifically, on community media and on the Internet, the regular work in their countries. I caught, for example. down to one advertisement that I saw saying: Are you leaving your country looking for a better standard of living? You're leaving your country for work? These are not legal reasons for getting international protection in Norway. You will be referred back. - People are being informed of the rule in these countries. This text is from an advertisement published by the Norwegian government, and Danir has published similar advertisements. We haven't published any such advertisements. I've been asking about this on the Department of Justice. If we look e.g. To Sweden there has become a change in the affairs of foreigners. In the Swedish council, more is involved in tightening the language requirements, limiting the transfer of relatives, and making it harder to obtain leaves on welfare grounds. These countries speak from experience that I find normal for us to look to when it comes to this series of issues. I just want to say in the end, Madam President, that I believe that we should follow this category of languages, when it comes to order, and learn from their experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u92	Madam President. It's interesting to hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson speaking here in opposition to government bill. I thought he was in the board, not in the government side, or whatever the board is doing. But I wanted to correct something as bad. A senator said that there would be a lot of people here looking for work or something like that. When you look at the figures published by the Foreign Institute, it turns out that more than half of those coming here, well over half, come from war - torn countries, such as Palestine, Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq, and Somalia. There is one other country that may be noted about the fact that people are looking for a better job, that is, those who are running from Venezuela, who are nearly more than from all the other countries combined. There's a good reason, there's no visa to get to Iceland if you're a citizen in Venezuela. It could be simplified and stopped very easily. It is also of great interest to note that there is a large majority of the population of residents in the country who receive a permit. That's a very good explanation, because the Dublin Protocol cannot be used to expel the person from the country. So I ask. A senator: Where are all those people looking for work to come from?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u93	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. It's now, for one time, if we could find those who are working with this group, e.g. The police at Keflavík Airport will be able to inform us about many and varied cases of abuse of this system. We should listen to it because we need to fix what can be done better in this system. Hv. A senator specifically asked where they were from looking for work. After all, when individuals arrive in the country, they are looking for work. It is therefore very difficult to keep track of these numbers, but experience has shown this. Hv. A senator here spoke of the refugees who come from war - torn lands, such as Syria, and that is true. But the situation in Syria has improved much, and people living there are moving back there. There must be a reason why so many apply to Iceland, far more than anywhere else in the North. There must be some reason. The standard of living is the same here as in other northern countries. The only thing that should scare people from coming here is the weather, as mentioned. This shows that the system has to be fixed and I've talked about it and will continue to speak for it. I've always spoken to you about the need to fix this system. It is clear that the number of applications will not be cut out of the North countries, and it is going to increase significantly, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u94	Madam President. I tried to point him. A senator comes from war - torn lands, according to the numbers of the Foreign Institute, most of the people. I don't know what media you're talking about. A senator is watching when he says that the war in Syria is over. It's a long way from here. Yes, there are areas where some have been coming back, but there are still areas where there are great conflicts and people running away from conflict. People are running from conflict in Afghanistan. People are fleeing Iraq. People are running from conflict in Somalia. These are people who are running from conflict and they are not abusing the system by coming here because they're running from conflict and they're not trying to lie to get a job here. These are indignities. A senator has no evidence, except for the fact that he has heard something. There are no data that can be taken valid, not at all. There is no limit to the claim that the system is being abused when a lot of people here are fleeing from war and conflict. And, yes, we have a higher proportion of inmates than the rest of the North countries. But we have a higher proportion than any other member of so many countries if it is based on an oscillary number, probably a higher rate of generalists, a higher proportion of ministers. We can count forever, that's not a standard. It came in last year, 871 individuals. That's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u95	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. In fact, I never said that the war in Syria was over, but I sure wish. It is now, and I have repeated it here, that there must be some reason why Iceland is on the map when it comes to applying for international protection. At the same time, the North countries are changing their policies to this class, learning from their experience, and hard - pressed rules. It is my personal opinion that we should follow this category of languages in the North. There's something wrong here when we find that there are many times the number of people in this area, proportional to what happens in other parts of the North. We give the best service, what. A senator, in Europe. I've been meeting with those who are working on this case and they've told me that this system is being abused. You can't say, boy. Senator, I'm just talking. I have received this information from those who work in this category. There are individuals who may apply about four or five times but who always get no. Is it normal for a person to enter this system four to five times, to spend months at the taxpayer's expense, and to have a fourth exposure? No, that's not normal. And why can't we discuss these things? Senator? Why be upset when you want your system to be efficient, that your money is the best of it? We'll talk about the health system, what better can be done, where to save, where to lack money. But when it comes to the hospice - no, it must not be taken into account that the system may be misused, that it may be possible to fix. I don't understand. I've been on a budget board, I know exactly where the money goes, but I'd like to make the most of it too. There are other ways in which you can do this, such as. to assist with international institutions in helping refugees, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u96	A respectable president. Hv. A senator named here in his case earlier figures and forecasts that the Foreign Institute has lax about the expected number of people who are looking to this country. I'm not gonna be good at it. A senator to throw some numbers into the air where the numbers come from sources who are supposed to know what they're talking about. I do not believe, however, that their numbers and theories may be based on research or other ideas that you might expect. But let's do it anyway, let's say it's right. Then I'd like to take an example for a moment. One member noted that the long duration of taking refuge draws people to him. It's a theory upstairs. It is not based on any research or such. This may just be something people think that could be the explanation for the growth of applications, and there is a consistent correlation between a long treatment period and a number of candidates. I'm going to start by saying that I agree. A senator that we spend too much money in the treatment of domestic trusts, way too much money, and what makes it even more shameful is that part of them is classified as financial support. The reason I think it is shameful is that the vastest part of these funds is not to help people in need but to find ways to get them out of the country. But I'm just going to step in and say that people are drawn to the length of the treatment. Why is that? Why do people want to be here? That is because there is no other way to be safe. They may have received a revelation in all European countries, or they may live under unannounced circumstances. It is not the great service performed during the treatment of asylum applications, it is quite clear. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to direct that question to why. A senator who is a member of exactly the government forces, such as the dog. paritaprevir The Gísli Ólafsson mentioned earlier, whether he would want to make his suggestion to shorten the treatment period to 48 hours simply by allowing people to stay on the land and work and get on with their feet. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We could certainly cut the cost of taking refuge by doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u97	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are required to watch their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u98	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I support the 48-hour Order. I came into it in my speech earlier. It's been a great experience in Norway, and I've said in the past that we should look to the experience of the northern nations when it comes to this series of issues. These countries, both Sweden and Denmark, now have much more experience than we do. It is not long since Denmark's government declared that the policy was that no one seeking refuge came there. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator I know knows very well that it is not acceptable that applying should take months to complete. It is not acceptable for the person applying, nor for the person paying for support, the taxpayers, the individuals in those months, up to the year when the application is due. Everybody sees it. Therefore, it is very important that this is changed and the system is made more efficient. I believe that. A senator completely agrees with me in that. There are many things to be fixed in this system, and we should agree on it here, my dear. Councilmen, amending the necessary repairs. We are also considering the interests of taxpayers when it comes to this. It is now a matter of thinking about what the public tax will go to and can be used in a much more efficient and efficient way than is done today when it comes to this system. I'm a spokesman to fix and modify it, and I'm a spokesman for following the course of other northern countries in these waters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u99	Thank you. A senator for the answer. I suspected that we could agree on this, although there is a possibility that we could discern the method, the way to do so. The best way to increase the rate in the management of applications, especially in this country where a large part of the candidates will receive proof of material treatment, which is dismissed by their applications - these are people we know are refugees, their applications have been completed. We don't even have to do that. We could simply take the matter into account for the material treatment and the use of foreigners. In fact, there is a law of foreigners that says that if another state has recognized the status of the fugitive, we should accept that too. For no provision has been made. Therefore, we could take these applications for the material treatment and right the living permit card. This might take ten minutes. I support my heart to significantly shorten the treatment period in these matters by allowing people to go to society rather than spend months eating them and then trying to get them out of the country. The bill we are discussing today is primarily about serving people who have already received the status of a fugitive. I noticed why. A senator talked about the cost of this service, and he seems to be concerned that this will help to attract more candidates. In fact, I often wondered, about the fact that people are not to be drawn here to the country. In another discussion, we are always trying to do our country good so that people will want to come and live here. So there's a bit of boring talk that we want situations so bad that people don't want to come here. I'd like to remind the senator that people are not a burden on communities, that communities are people. Larger society is stronger society. I'd like to mention that I'm not sure that a service such as improved Icelandic education is necessarily something that will increasingly drag people to this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u100	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. That's exactly what I thought was not clear to me at the highest. Minister of this increased service. I agree with what. A senator in that I think Icelandic school alone doesn't especially attract people to the country, I agree. That's what a senator does. But there are other factors. Somehow, I feel that there has never been a clear explanation in the bill of service. It'd be nice to get it out. That's what I did here last year. A member of the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland specifically mentioned the increase in the number of years, just a few years, up to half. Within a few years, it is being said to be 1,200,500,000 candidates. Somehow, I felt like it was there. A senator was ratherlittled by that prediction. Such predictions must be possible by a foreign agency. She's working on these matters. She will handle these applications and must base her predictions on tangible things. Who else should do such predictions than the Foreign Institute? I'm just asking. I take these predictions seriously, and I think they're a worry. There is concern when the cost may double over the next three years, ranging from 3 billion to 7 billion. It's a lot of money. We must realize that we cannot accept everyone, unfortunately. It's just that way. All the countries look to this level of cost. It's just normal. Just as we look at the health - care cost, we must also look at the cost of this system. It's just that way. I say again and again that it is obvious that there is an application to come here because there are a lot more applications to Iceland than there are. To Norway or Denmark. There must be some reason why, and we should go into the stitches and see what we can do better. I believe we're supposed to be on a pair with other North countries, Denmark and Sweden, in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u101	Madam President. Here we are in 1st. the bill to correct a law on the affairs of immigrants, the reception of individuals with protection, the emigrant council, as it is called on this trip. There was a change from the fact that the matter was presented to the last assembly, which gave the subject a bill to correct a change in the law on the affairs of immigrants, the assembly of refugees, and the council of immigrants. This article discusses individuals with protection rather than using the term refugees. Under the circumstances, we answer at the highest. A minister who spoke to the bill earlier at this meeting asked some questions at the highest level. A minister did not have time to comment, and there are, of course, factors that need special attention. The welfare committee, when the case has been sent over. I remember from last year's discussion that it was held by the highest. the then minister of the seminary that these measures were being brought to the same outlook as those of the Norwegian countries. Especially should this claim be considered, whether it is true that individuals who have been protected enjoy the same rights as the greeting that comes to each nation under its rule. I asked the highest. Similarly, a minister of the Ministry of Justice, known today as Internal Affairs, would have been in charge of possible effects on what in daily terms is called the CHMP, which is the motivation for application in a certain country based on different regulations and other rights and related to the application and handling of an application. V.E.G. The minister did not answer that question, but if you look at the bill's report on consultations here, it'll be with the President's permission: The main concern of the National Ministry of Health, the Multicultural Network, and individuals is national protection. Plans for making the bill were also presented to other councils. Hv. A welfare committee needs to call for a specific assessment, the expected members of the Ministry of State, or if they were not. It needs to be called to the conclusion of the matter on the committee. In such cases as this, the point of a relatively limited point is that what is often forgotten in this room is to look to the secondary effects of legislation. If the theory thinks that changing like this, to provide protection to all persons of the same rights and of the greeting, has no effect in increasing the motivation for protection applications in Iceland, then I have to admit that it would be a big surprise to me, not to the point where it was taken. For some reason, the number of takeoffs is multiplied in numbers here, but in countries closest to us, four to six times the proportion seems to be common in comparison to the North countries. Something's the cause of this. It has been discussed here, and this is exactly what was said at a meeting of the General and Education Committee of January 25th, it reminds me that, as representatives of the National Institutes of Iceland came in writing and planning, the main reason for this number of applications to Iceland was the long treatment period. I think we'd do better looking for ways to shorten it. In an interview with what you're talking about. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, mentioned earlier, was involved. I think we have to have a comprehensive view of these matters. Many people feel uncomfortable talking about efficiency and flow of these materials, but they may be of great benefit to us so that we could do well and support the adjustment of those who come here to the country but try not to get too involved and do everything for everyone. This is not meant in a harsh way, but there are limited funds we have from playing, and I think it is important to try to make the best use of them so that those who come here will have the easiest to adapt to Icelandic society. During this discussion at the last council, there was this surprising discussion that this matter was primarily to teach those who come here. I don't suppose any human members of the Central Party believe that we are opposed to the foreign learning process. I don't think it's anyone's idea. Of course, that is not what is critical of this matter but a lack of the secondary effects. As we look at section 6 of the bill's report on impact assessment, it says, by permission of the President: ▪ It is assumed that the new projects of the Multicultural Network will require three additional positions as well as a work-related cost of about 40.8 billion each year. K. as well as the cost of single - trade money to $1 billion. Why? Kworn - 40 million a year! The cost of this matter, if the case has the effect that I can tell myself that I'm concerned that it has, it doesn't make sense. He is expected to be in the contracts that will be made from the fact that the case was submitted last year, with three rural communities having a cooperative agreement for protecting individuals on the basis of these rules, now five. No doubt it is there and possibly more in the system the cost will be. What I'm critical of is that this film is not drawn up completely for us senators. It has often been called in a good joke that the samurai method is being used for bringing Iceland into the European Union and under its regulations, and this is to some extent of the same hurt. This is where we get a small piece of puzzle, and it's looked very narrowly at in the text of this bill, but the reality is that all the people who are protected in this country are being given the same rights and quotas. I printed out, and I'll see if I can find it quickly from last year's discussion when it was presented in a speech, by permission of the president: Since its arrival in the country, most people are entitled to receive special assistance for a minimum of one year. Help with what refugees are entitled to, cr. However the rest of this section is: a. Budget support. b. Social counseling. c. Housekeeping, along with the necessary interiors and telephones. For example, education, especially Icelandic, motherhood, and community education. ... andschoolschoolindepth. B. empty-hour job. g. health care and dental. h. Service interprets. i. Help with the job search. j. Another needed help. Then it was followed by a: '-' but it's about so-called naval people. What we naturally ask ourselves is, What does it mean that these rights are transferred to a much larger group than they have so far? Hv. paritaprevir Gísli Ólafsson, senator of Pirata, arrived earlier that last year, 871 individuals arrived in the country. I haven't looked at this number, but I'm gonna go for it. A senator has it right, 871 individuals. Of course, if we give ourselves to that group would agree with what was presented in the preceding discussion, it is a far greater scope of the group coming here on the basis of cooperation in the matter of legislators. All I'm asking is that this picture, as I say, be drawn up for us together because this little piece of paper that in this bill is not a complete picture. If members of Congress believe that this has no secondary effect, I have to say that it is highly unlikely that it would be. This was shown at the meeting I mentioned earlier, January 25 C.E. It was surprising that the number of applications for protection had declined through this Covid period that we have experienced for just two years. If I understood the format there, the number of applications in Iceland was much lower than the number of countries we were comparing with, in particular, the Scandinavian nations. Now I'm developing a theory, I haven't studied this to any extent. But this was shown in the discourse of the Supreme Court. Minister that since March 1, 2021, all those who came here were actually directed into this arrangement, and I think the highest. A minister noted the date of March 1, 2020, that those who came here after that period were all invited to participate. So this adjustment has actually been introduced without this type of legislation. Then we must ask ourselves, " Wait, why is this continued? ' It is said that it is to ensure a relatively technical point that is about the following, as stated in Article 6 of the report, by permission of the president: ▪ In view of the growing numbers of individuals with protection in recent years, it is important that countries and rural groups ensure continuous, equal service. No matter how protective individuals arrived in the country, a uniform welcome system is involved in ensuring equal service. [...] The bill includes the central change that the Enlightenment site is designed for larger roles through the development of a unified reception of individuals with protection and the importance of promoting the Agency so that it can handle this project. The mass agency has been doing an amazing job, and I don't think anyone is reducing it to the point that it will be the most important work to do. But the fact that the occasion and need of this matter are boiled down to almost nothing in this description published here I believe that in all other ways the effects of this bill are likely to be realized. I'm just wondering if this small reduction - a lot less than the neighboring nations could see, much less - on applications through this period of Covid may be due to the possible aims already being made to cause the benefit of the eating force here in Iceland being more intense than it was long ago, because something must explain that it is reduced in size as it was during the Covid period that we've experienced for two years and all less. I got it. I got it. The welfare committee to examine this matter carefully, and particularly on those issues involved in what is being done in the North countries, whether this so - called "pearl factor, " and the rest of what I mentioned earlier in the talk. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u102	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by celebrating this case. This is something that has been called after a long time and has been working on for quite a while, and I'm just going to say, "Even if it had been before. " This is in line with the services and support that people receive regardless of whether they come to the land on their own or because of an invitation by the government through a family unity. However, there are a few things I would like to barely be brief about this bill. It is the first thing that shows up in many of the narratives that have been received on the subject during a previous consideration, the need for governments to take up a complete policy, a comprehensive policy in long - term receipt of refugees. That's where I'd like to say something. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason mentioned earlier that this bill showed no overall picture. I'm going to agree with that. It is a very important factor, an important offense, but it does not show us the vision and the overall picture of refugees. It needs to shape a focalal and collective system that is much more broad, a global one, where all aspects of society are considered, a global welcome system. There I will agree with other members of the council who have discussed this matter about the fact that we can learn from the experience of the Northern countries in that regard. I don't agree with what. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson, who repeatedly mentioned that we had the best service in Europe and the best system, and that's why people would come here. There are some things that are fine here, but there is also much that we will yet learn. There are a lot of things to add, and many other European countries and countries do much better than we do. This is especially true of the adjustment of refugees. I would like to see the government's policy of mutual adaptation of refugees and other immigrants in this country for a long time. I allow myself to doubt that the figures that the U.S. National Institute may have advanced in a certain kind of complaint at meetings are based, in fact, on some reality or research. There is no evidence that the number of people on the move around the world is decreasing in the next two stages, on the contrary. Although we may not have good tools to calculate any number of people, either an Foreign Institute or anyone else, most suggest that this group will increase as a result of climate change, due to a variety of agitation in the others and these communities, and because of changing social practices, by various technological developments and other factors. That's why it's so important that we stop thinking about it so that we can just shut all the doors and windows and it'll be all right, and we'll take this reality just as he is, and we'll deal with it. It must be made with a complete, long - term policy of mutual adaptation of the whole community, immigrants, and others. For this to be possible, too, it also needs to be noted in advance that large additional data and research on the adaptation of immigrants, especially refugees, on both their personal adjustments, access to the labour market, and so on. There is a small amount of data and research, but there is information we need to design the system properly and develop for a longer time. There is a red thread through most comments that need to be improved in interpretation and access to Icelandic education. It's in everyone's best interest. There's something we shouldn't have to argue about. In fact, the Central Party agrees that it is truly important. In addition, the training of the professional at all walks of life must be ensured. It is very good that this has reached the center of assistance to other institutions and other parts of the community on cultural and otherwise challenges. But training and teaching are also under way in all areas of society, in the health sector, in the police and elsewhere, in cultural and cultural barriers, and in the practical ways of working with people of diverse backgrounds. This is not a challenge that will decrease over the years. Other things I would like to encourage a welfare committee to look closely at the work on this bill are comments on the management of personal information. It is very important that people give real informed approval for the processing of sensitive personal information that may be necessary to adapt their services and help to the individual needs. There is also interpretation, and there may even need to be cultural interpretations. How important it is that people discern where they are stored and how they are handled! There's another one that called a specific warning bell when reading the bill, i.e. That I can't better see than the plan is for a multi-cultural site to take care of, as it is said in the bill, to pair individuals and rural areas. If I understand that correctly, and I pray to the highest. A minister to correct me if it is not, the applicant, who may actually not be a candidate, candidate for the service, does not really have anything to say about any community that will be doing the service. I believe I understand the reason behind this arrangement. It is likely that there are few rural communities that have been negotiated and may not be able to fulfill everyone's wishes. On the other hand, I'd like to encourage a health board and the highest level. A minister to find a way to gain more respect for the individual, respect for the wishes and wills of the people on this job, so that he will have some choice or approach to the service he has since offered, and perhaps especially about location. It's also about that, which always sounds silly when you say it, that refugees are just like us. Although there is a passage that many refugees are expected to be just happy to be alive and not be too demanding, we all know that most people do not want to survive, we want to live. It follows choosing a career, choosing a scene, choosing a future, and being able to control and affect one's future. In this respect, and the rest of this bill such as, I'm just going to say well, as indicated by the Red Cross review of this issue at the previous stage: the health and well - being of refugees are public interests, not their personal interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u103	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. There are a few points I cut down and I just want to discuss here, and also, in view of the discussion I've been discussing. Here was a reference to a particular stipple factor, and without my having strong opinions about it, it is now that this uniform assembly and project, as it were correctly presented, is facing now in the natural world. The senator before, only to those protected by protection, is through the system and has a position of either a fugitive or a protection, so I doubt that he will have a wonderful effect. But I'm not going to discuss it here. You know, about the mating. That's kind of why I decided to come up here. As I understand this bill, and as I understand this project, this is just one of the major factors in this, giving the Polyhuman Society the authority to create information, both from rural society and from these individuals so that it can better be found out what are the needs of both the rural society and, like, the people who come here so that they can live in areas and places that are suitable for their particular circumstances. That's the big deal, I think. They're trying to do this. That is why it is so important that the President of the United States receives this warrant from Peritoneal Protection to gain information so that we can better meet the needs of these people so that they will be in the best of an environment and that will be suitable for each individual or family. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If I understood the comment correctly, she'll turn to these couples, like a quirk. A senator mentioned. I think the intentions behind the bill are all good. It's my feeling when I read it. It is natural, however, that we cannot find out what is suitable for people or their circumstances without their own enjoyment. This may be what is often underestimated, perhaps especially in the case of people who are vulnerable for some reason. We do not see this just in the affairs of refugees, we also see this in the affairs of disabled people, in the affairs of children, in the affairs of the elderly and in all cases where the will to help goes over and may begin to govern more than is needed. But I think the intentions are good. Now I'm off working with clients on these matters because I'm in another job, but it made me think that recently I was helping someone who was protected here. Then this new system was started on experimental activity, and this man just wanted to go and rent his apartment and go to work, he had been waiting for it for a long, long time. But I got a little bit of a feeling that there could be a way people would be forced into some relief system that they don't need. Something may need to be kept in mind too. The warnings that call there are about how people feel, that we do not get ahead of ourselves in helping people with their absence, without saying themselves what they need and what they don't do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u105	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I can quite agree with her words in this regard. I agree completely with what. A senator in this, we have to approach refugees like other people; on their terms, as much as possible. I understand the bill and the intent behind it so that it is being tried to do so as far as possible with this. The work I've been doing in association with refugees is clear that there's a lot of conversation there with the people. They are trying to figure out what places or communities are suitable for each other, just according to family size and family type and other characteristics. Sometimes medical care, where it is, is needed if family members have such problems. But I completely agree with it. I don't think there's supposed to be any pressing on people who don't want them, that's what I think we're clear about. If people do not want and are not interested in entering this uniform reception, they have the option of not doing so, as I understand the situation. But there is also one thing I'd like to do. Although it may not be directly related to this case, I'm going to mention one thing about this assistance we're going to provide here, whether it's greeting people or people who come here and receive protection: we'll put these people in our communities on land or in Reykjavík. But that is not the task or goal of extending people in these areas forever. Our mission is simply to get people out of their terrible, terrible circumstances, to safety, and to give them help for this one year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It will then decide on its terms if it wants to be attached to the place we chose or to go somewhere else, just like the rest of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u106	I don't know. Congress officials, once again, are expected to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u107	A respectable president. I thank the senator again for the answer and an interesting conversation. What you might be able to contribute to this bill and to the approach it shows is that it seems like everything or nothing. Maybe that's what you could make some adjustment or adapt to reality. Truly, many refugees come from frightening situations, and they need time to land. This often comes directly from a frightening situation, and it simply takes time to come apart. But that's not always the case. Sometimes people have been on the run for a long time. They have been in another state for some time, and that may be, so to speak, landed and lacked a vision for the future. Then there is a temporary assignment somewhere where people do not necessarily intend to spend their lives, perhaps not what they need. But that does not necessarily mean that people do not need any support. It is certainly full of support that may be needed, such as the New World Translation. It is unfortunate for both applicants and for us as a community if they cannot be served simply because the person may not want another part of it. So I encourage a welfare committee and the highest. A minister to carefully examine the potential for making this system more flexible so that people can be more active in the implementation of the ministry, not only the total package but also, although it really needs some of these services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u108	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ardius Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir for the speech. Hv. A senator came into his mind that it was wise to look to - why. A senator will correct me if I take the wrong course - 48 hours of order and thus promise people to settle down here, settle down, start their lives, get their jobs, and all of that. I'd like to ask you what. A senator how she envisions the application of this arrangement and then possible interacting with other flexible means. Or see what? A senator imagined that this would be just the rule? People would come in here and cases would be taken care of in 48 hours, and then you'd be yours, sorry, President, and then there would be people on their own. These views have been turned around in the early stages, but I like to know what was happening. A senator envisions this, whether all of them were killed, e.g. this 48 - hour approach, and people would be able to come here on their own. It would be interesting to know what a sight it was. The senator is on this very point she came in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. In fact, this was something I mentioned in the contrast to another senator's speech earlier and is certainly part of a discussion about people's authority to come and stay in Iceland, but maybe not the subject of the bill we are discussing here. I mention this in the context of the reality that we truly live in Iceland, which is that a large proportion of people who are looking for protection here have already received ◯ Protection -- there may be more on paper than in practice - in other European countries and, above all, if not exclusively, in Greece and Hungary than in Italy alone. I mention this in connection with it because I agree with the assessment of the Foreign Institute and many others, these are the cases that take a long time. We have a law that says that if a matter has taken 12 months or longer, the matter should be handled as a physical treatment. These cases may take so long that most of them end in that way. That's for many reasons. This has been primarily because the NTSB has canceled these cases, sending them back to the Foreign Institute. They go round one, back through the Foreign Institute, go back and forth, and get people out of the country in five days. Fortunately, they do not succeed because they do not have the authority to force a physical examination to get them on a plane. That's why I mentioned it. It was certainly not my intention to suggest that after that people be given no service. From my experience, however, I intend to disagree. paritaprevir Gísli Hésni Ólafsson, mentioned earlier that all these people were not just here to work. I think these people are more and less all here to work, I think they are. [[The president calls.]] That's what I mean when I say people should be able to start building their lives instead of having to be in bad service, live up to an airport, and get 8,000 bucks. every week in allowance; staring at white walls for a year, instead of simply letting go and offering to start building your life up here on land. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u110	As a review, the president reminds us that the public speaking period is two minutes, not two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u111	Madam President. I'll give you half a minute. Thank you so much for that answer. I'm sure that's how I'm concerned with the extent of what I'm worried about if you're too open, so to speak. But it has often been a problem during the discussion that, on the one hand, it is said that there are people who want to keep everything shut and let no one in and on the other, that everything should be blown open, and I think I can, and many others, give pretty good reasons that it might be impossible for us. But because of him. A senator is very experienced in this environment, and I ask, based on the community structure we live in Iceland. A senator, then, would see the length of time that we would normally handle so that adjustment would be well maintained and possible, so that those who come here will feel comfortable? I know that this may be a unfair question, but I think it would help us to continue our discussion if we realized what factors were being looked at in a different direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u112	President. Thank you. A senator again before the conversation. I believe that, and I build it even. on our experience with other openings we've attacked on our borders, including into the European Economic Area - that if we keep our cards right, if we make sure there's an open and receptive community and that this two-way adjustment is guaranteed, I'm not worried about the number of people that come here. The challenge that includes the masses does not involve the masses, it is the combination of the masses. As I have repeatedly mentioned, people are not a burden on communities. Society are people. With the enlargement of society, I think we'd just be more powerful. I think the challenges lie to other things. There are other projects. I often mention that in this discussion the fact that, as the situation exists today, there are 500 million people who can move to Iceland, do not have to apply for one thing or anything, just come down to the national file, register there, not even have to do it for the first three months and can begin to work, find a job and start living without asking a king or a priest. And there is very limited authority to take these people out of the country. In many countries where people have freedom to travel to Iceland, such as Greece, there is a tremendous unemployment; there is a 40% unemployment in young people in Greece. I'd like to ask you back then, maybe more teatetically, into the kiss, if all these people can come here, and it's so great to live in Iceland, then where are the Greeks?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u113	Madam President. It's been going through a wide range of fields here today, quite frankly. I wondered if there was a basis for a system that was involved in the reception of people in search of protection from A to O in the case of a bill provided by a social and workforcer to provide a concerted reception of individuals with protection, and is not about what happens before people receive protection, but what happens after people have been protected, in order to maintain their privacy. But all right, it's about using every opportunity to discuss this, discussing how badly our system is already in the process of receiving people for protection. But I have to say, I'm happy to receive this bill very much because we need, and it's been a long time needed, for years, to coordinate how we're going to receive people who have been protected in Iceland. It's extremely important that there's some harmony there. Because there's been a little talk about VIP treatment, how some people get in front of the order, I can say here, and I'm saying that it's been a sort of VIP therapy when it comes to how we treat people who have been fleeing but who have been protected here. To this day, it has often been so that people who have been given the leave of the people in this area for humanitarian reasons, who have obtained the status of refugees, or who have come here with such a position, have been invited here, so called peddlers, have received a very different welcome. These two groups have received quite a different welcome. These groups have shared the common responsibility of being on the run because of war or other circumstances, political interference, media activity, and so forth, and one group may have been in a refugee camp in the world, receiving this stamp needed from the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees. It is so strange that those who are exposed to a game that such refugee camps cannot enter it. There is also a system where people can get in and how they can try to get this position in the world, even at refugee camps, and be considered a fugitive in the sense of the refugee agreement. How important it is that we carefully accept the people we have decided to provide protection! But I'm a little worried about what's being said in the bill that it's submitted again and that it's all changed, but it's not really that way. Although it may be that the meaning is somewhat the same, it would be better to simply say that it is comparable than that it changed. I've been playing with it here a lot of days, kicking this bill with the bills we've had before. The welfare committee I'm not in anymore. This is because there is, of course, a lack of confidence. You don't really trust the government. Even though it's the highest. A social and employment minister has a good mind, but you don't really trust that it doesn't fit in between some bastard who needs to be protected. And why do I say that? Yes, because the first bill, the same material, but only different, came into the 150th leg of law and was employed there and went on all manner of narratives, returned to the 151th legislature, when it was submitted, and no work had been shown to be needed, including Of character protection, in the meantime. Then there was a new start, and Persian protection had to be asked: Why didn't you look at our tips from last year, etc.? This may be part of it. However, the bill has in part been taken into account as a boy. The welfare committee returned last year, at least In terms of personal protection and the information provided by Perone Protection on the processing of personal information, including sensitive personal information. Of course, we need to discuss the extent of personal information, and I expect the committee to do so, a multi-cultural warrantment, as well as the sharing of personal information. Then, of course, it is extremely delicate and important that we not be going over some limit. We've discussed it many times here at a Senate Hall whether we're possible, just by setting it up in law, giving too many public agencies too far too much access to the media of personal information. The bill says that if you do this, you need to let the person know. But, of course, we have to discuss it too, and I hope we will. A welfare committee will do that if a person says: "I do not trust governments to handle the information that concerns me. This is sensitive personal information and we are talking about very detailed information. I hope this is to be discussed specifically in the Committee. Only with regard to the abuse of the security system, as discussed here. I can't afford to ignore saying that, of course, it is entirely possible to discuss whether or not you are taking advantage of the security system, but you have to discuss whether or not there are other systems that are being abused, such as from big companies, whether or not you are being abused by the rules and system for reimbursement on the travel costs of members of Congress or just whatever. Remuneration of merit tax, is it being abused? We must have the courage to examine all of them. The problem with this system, however, has been that, as you have often seen about the social security system and its attitudes, that the abuse of the system is being decided before considering how we can serve those in need, how we can receive and assist those who need it. Then, starting with the wrong end, you will begin by considering how we can prevent the abuse of things. As I've often said, 10 percent of all numerals can be assumed to be confused somewhere. I think there's probably 10% of members of Congress somewhere confused and probably 10% of lawyers, 10% of doctors, 10% of refugees. I think we can figure that out about now, because there's no trace of people who have everything on dry air. That's what I wanted to put in the punch when we talk about it. But I wish. For the well - being committee of this work, and in the end they say: "I hope this is the end of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for his speech. In many ways I wanted to agree with what was presented in her case rather than necessarily contradict it and point out what I forgot to mention earlier, I had thought of it but forgot to put it in my speech, and on the acquiring of personal information. Of course, it is always possible to obtain personal information with the approval of people. If people agree to access their personal information, it's not a problem. I think it is right to bear in mind that when governments are being given very broad authority to work personal information and transfer it between them, it may not always be necessary. There's something else that can't be done, and I need to match the processing of such a bill and structure of a system, that's exactly what I read out of words as well. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, that we need to be careful to be careful what we're going to do if people like you are. does not want access to personal information. They need real opportunities to maintain their lack of trust in the government, which is often higher in those who come from countries where government officials are even more trustworthy than here, and perhaps in some other places. There must be no obligation in effect to provide governments with access to the most sensitive personal information. It is extremely sensitive person information that is shown in the treatment of people's applications for global protection. It must be ensured that people can obtain the type of service they need without accepting something that is not needed or that is expected to be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u115	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the ◯ Awake! It is stated in the Directive on the processing of personal information that a person or his guardian should be informed of the planned process and sharing of personal information, but not of any agreement. Thus, while not clearly stated, it can be assumed that there is really no need for consent. It is then a question of whether the person will not receive the service that is being performed there, whether this will be a meal that will be placed in the hands of the staff of a multicultural site. That's a question. Of course, we need specific information, which is clear. We must be able to request specific information, basic information in order to provide services, e.g. Regarding family size and family life; we need to put children at school or under medical care, etc.? Then it's normal to make that requirement, but it kind of needs to make some kind of defenseist, so there's some way to say, "You can share this information here, but I don't want you to talk it over there, 'cause you're afraid of consequences. We need to be flexible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u116	Madam President. Thank you. A senator again for his chat. This wording certainly rings a warning bell and does not seem to have any way of rejecting part - or - size personality information to accept the services they need. I feel that this is part of the concern I mentioned in my talk that is that people need help, making us too much of their independence, self - determination, and responsibility for our own lives. I imagine that lack of information on the interests of people affects the ability of a service employer to provide that service. However, that person is likely to be affected. This need to be balanced, between a person being given the service they need, in the opinion of an employee of a polymenium or, in the opinion of the individual, and the question, Is it not too much custody in this too, this rich authority, the rich government's right to obtain the most sensitive personal information about individuals in order to help them? I repeat, this calls a warning bell to me, and I encourage the welfare committee to take a close look at it. I was a little surprised to learn that there were no more stern statements from Perlon protection in this regard, but I believe that there is good reason for me to be gentle there and to bear this in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u117	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. I got it. I got it. The welfare committee and then the affidavit. Councilmen in it to review the records of the Persian Guardians who were sent, dated March 3, 2021, and March 22, 2021. In this regard, we find some comments. For example, when a person does not give personal information, he does not get a service: Yes, to some extent, but to no other extent. Of course, we can be in on it, as it were. A senator knows very well, people in very different circumstances, with differences in background, different reasons for having difficulty with trust, especially in governments, may find it difficult to trust governments for information on offspring, and who live in the home. There may be many reasons. But, of course, you hope that in a coordinated ministry as presented here, we can rather put our arms around this group in an adequate way and just build this bridge of trust between this group and the governing system because a part of this group has never lived under such circumstances as being able to trust any outsiders with its life and welfare.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u118	Madam President. It has been interesting to sit here in this discussion, observing different viewpoints and angles. Many of these issues have not been directly addressed to the bill discussed here. Rather, they have been discussed in many parts of the world. Maybe that's just fine. They may have shown us the view that exists in the community. Watching the discussion has been very revealing, much has been shown in it. The fear that any action aimed at simplifying, harmonizing and improving the system is somehow a direct indication that there will be an uncontrollable expense and a self-sustaining flow of people into the country is something that I can't quite get around. Now that we're going out into the open, I think it's important that we just go out to the field and think only about the position of people, and why we're so much to sort out: we're ready to accept these because he has these reasons, but not the others. The reasons for the massive flood of refugees are that my two main sources of knowledge are war and climate change. Although we as a community may be a grain of sand in the big world - but because we always talk about a ballot number, we're still pretty big - we're responsible. We are also responsible for the situation. As long as we do not take responsibility in another direction and tell us, e.g. From NATO, we have responsibilities. But about the climate. We're headed in the right direction. We are certainly taking responsibility, but we have not done enough. We need to do better. That is why it is wonderful that in a government covenant, there is a powerful vision for the future in climate matters. This is one of the things I wanted to say, that we cannot accept responsibility and enter narrow administrative rules when so many people are fleeing in the world, because human actions are so large a part of it. Then we come to what's being discussed here, which is this bill that I sincerely embrace. I like that. There are indications, of course, that are intended to be considered. If I know the protection laws correctly, it is not necessarily possible to assume that a government can use informed consent. Other measures are needed, since there is always a balance of power. I think it's worth looking at a welfare committee asking demanding questions and looking at things. But here, for example. They're talking about, so I'll come back to that we're going into some uncertainty and that every action will be made to get some sort of hollow people, and there's been a bit of a red thread in the discussion, that's trying to get into the country on false grounds. At least it makes me feel sad, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned about 10%. I think it is, of course, - and, of course, equal people who are in an enormously difficult situation that fears even their lives and those of others. Maybe I'd say anything if I was in that position and not quite true. [[Top of the list, please.]] But we can't walk out of our way and plan to build all our rules because everyone is cheating. We should look at things from another point of view. We have international commitments, we have some kind of social agreement that we want to participate, we want to help, we want to help, we want to help people escape. Many rural societies have opened their hearts, their administration, and their ability to receive. There could be more. The one standing here requested it while she was sitting on the Mula convention, one of the largest rural communities, if I remember correctly, who did not wish to have a cooperative agreement to receive refugees, did so, and that a committee would be established to figure out how best to do so. I think most of us in the community would like to do well. We want to do better. That is why I also find it important to rejoice when good bills appear that are involved in improving the system, making it more efficient, making it more humane. And I do. I think it's important, and it's now our policy in the left movement of a ◯ green supply, that it always goes together, service, and humanity. Although there are other litigators; whether we are looking at the case of invalids, older citizens, or immigrants, or refugees, regardless of whom we watch, when working with human agents and human lives, the service can never be squared, some sort of clockwork. We must always work out our humanity. I think it's part of the process, so that as many people sit at the same table and people get services and we simplify all their operations so that people don't have to wait forever, as we know, that people don't have to look in many places and that they don't have to figure out if they fit in this category or the other group, but that we're going to meet people first. I would also like to explain from this discussion that we really do this and in this bill to follow our neighboring countries. For example, this uniform system has been in Norway for a long time, not with the length of time, but this is not the case, since application was extremely growing in this way. I think the fear that the cost will be huge, that all control will be too much, is unrealistic. Perhaps it is worth mention, too, that we are a small nation; we are few in a vast country. We can't reach our professional life. In the fall and everywhere I came, I went throughout the country for a campaign, no matter what the sector, whether it was the health sector, the agricultural sector, or the seafaring sectors, people everywhere were missing. In some places it is impossible to maintain a service level because business cannot be made, let alone that people come here looking for a better life, in search of employment. Why is that so terrible? I don't quite get it. Of course, all of us want to do well. There must be order. I don't remember what happened. paritaprevir The Gísliun Ólafsson mentioned earlier about the number of people fleeing, they were amazingly high, and of course we all know, no matter what group we are or where we are, that we cannot help everyone. But we can do better. I think this bill is a step in the right direction. It has been called on here in the symposium to make a complete policy, that it is a little bit out and south right now. However, the government covenant shows that there will be a clear policy in the affairs of foreigners. That work's already started, and I think, for example. that this is part of looking forward to a comprehensive rule of action. The fact that we're harmonizing this bill with two different things that have been enjoyed in two fields and taken care of in a different way, I think that's the first step in starting with a whole system policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u119	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I would judge only at the end of the talk, which I had also cut off in the words of others who have spoken here today, which involved a clear course and perspective, and in harmony with the government's policy on these matters. There was some senator who mentioned it earlier today, I'm sorry to forget who it was, how prominently these two ministers seem to be talking to each other on the other hand. A minister in charge of the seminaries who controls who are allowed to come here and be, and then the highest. A minister who provides services and assistance to these same people, the individuals who are allowed to be. In fact, it was pointed out today to the highest level. Minister of Justice or Minister of Justice, I am not quite aware of who the right title is now, in preparation for a bill, where it actually enters the Supreme Authority. Social and workforce minister sitting here. So I wanted to ask you why. A member of a government team whether she is not concerned about this, whether she believes it, and trusts that there is enough conversation within the government, and between Ministers to ensure a comprehensive humane policy on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u120	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think the government deal is pretty clear up there. It's been our policy that the management department, I don't know how to say it, in the litigation category should be, and that has much more to do with the Ministry of Social Affairs than with the Ministry of Justice, and that applies to more lawsuits. I'll figure it out for myself, like. in no way why adoption has been in their premise, their main place in social affairs. I think it's a good conversation. That's all I know. I know that these are, of course, different categories of vision, but I think it's that when you write a government contract, they're being made through compromises. But I think we're looking ahead for a good time in foreign affairs and we're taking responsibility for these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm gonna let myself guess. A senator hasn't read a bill yet. Minister of Justice in consultation. At the same time, I'm going to ask for it at what. A member of the council and her members that they carefully examine this bill and make significant changes before it is submitted to the council. In fact, the bill is so stimulating that I'm not convinced that all people who would respond under other circumstances have seen reasons still for doing so, since there are things inside that you really allow yourself to believe and trust that you will not go further in this process. I'm not going to point another question to why. However, the senator asked her to read this bill carefully and to pray for her to make sure that it will be better done to the council than it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u122	Madam President. Yes, the bill is, of course, persuading, which is good because it will change. The point remains to be pointed out as groups that will pass through the headlines, and that is the process. Of course, we're working on it, so the council will do the same. We are molding it in this way. The policy of my VG and group here at the council is, of course, very clear and we will always protect what we believe in and I think I have nothing more to say, we will, of course, just, as our policy says, protect it as we have always done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-01-31.u123	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Councilmen for a good discussion. Much has been discussed here, both in the subject of the bill and in other ways. In fact, there is good opportunity to discuss more than exactly what each bill contains, but I'm going to try to stay as good as possible at the bill and establish certain points that have been discussed here today. I'd like to start by coming in for a second. Senators Birgir and Bergþór Ólason are talking about here today and they focus on the services of people who have been protected. Then it is important that services to refugees - to people who have been given international protection in any way they have received protection - are given absolutely independent of this bill. Every person with a registered legal home in this country has the right to serve under the local Social Services Act and this bill does not change it. I'd also like to come into one of those things some of them have. Councilmen mentioned, including Yeah. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir, if I recall correctly, on the subject of employment participation. I want to agree with that with what. A senator how important it is when people bring protection into this country and that position in the community. In the present research project carried out by the rural communities in a consistent reception, the Labour Department has been given an additional role, whether for community education or assistance in employment and other activities. It also offers student and professional advice, to name something. For example, about half of the refugees who came to the employment agency through the uniform reception have already found work, last year. It's important. Reports have also shown that the long - term effects of working with foreigners are positive economically. I'd like to mention one example that the Office of Business took together for us at the Ministry of Justice, i.e. that if we take the average amount of financial aid for a person who is here in Reykjavík or in Kópavogi, for 250 people who have come here and received protection in one way or another, we are talking about over 600 million a year who are no longer paid in financial assistance if these people are given a job. In terms of tax pay, the average wage is 450,000. every month, there are about 270 million. K. In a year, which so favors the state and rural society. That's about 900 million. K. benefit per year. The situation can be set up so that it is not merely an expense for society to welcome these people. These people are a resource for society, whether we're looking at it economically or in that our community grows more diverse and better. Hv. Tenth. That's the north side. "Jódís Skúladóttir, here said that the northern countries had long had a consistent reception. She named Norway in that regard. She mentioned that it is a huge service, but at the same time, we have not seen the same growth as we have seen here in Iceland when it comes to those applying for protection. To answer that. The members of Birgir, the son of Þórarinsson and Bergþór son of Ólason, of whether they are likely to be in agreement, and hence, this bill will lead to the application of more people here, I don't think there is much in itself to do so. I'd also like to include just a few of the points mentioned by some members of the council and focus on all - relevant policies in the seminary. It is just one of the work of the Treaty to establish a comprehensive and clear policy in these issues that aims to allow people who sit here to have an opportunity for adaptation and active involvement in society and at work markets. Work on the design of this holistic policy I will begin soon. Last but not least, my chief. Mr President, I'd like to come back to the subject of what this bill is all about. It's a simple bill in itself. The bill is about getting permission to access personal information to help people find a suitable rural society. Similarly, because of this concerted reception, the role of a multicultural facility is legalized, providing community professional counseling and counseling. Third, the role of a multicultural facility must be to offer people, as well as the law, to settle into a receptional group society considered to be the best for the individual. If the individual does not wish to do so and refuse to settle in the local community, it is the duty of a polymorphism to provide the individual or family with all the information about the services to which the community should serve. This should be clearly explained by reason of reason of the procedure. paritaprevir Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristinasdótttir Gunnarsdóttir asked if people had a choice to participate in the reception, that it is quite clear that people have a choice. They have a choice whether they will accept participation in a consistent reception; they do not have to. However, those who do not wish to participate in a consistent reception will receive all services in accordance with the law and the services of the labour oce. A respectable president. Finally, I just want to say this: This is an important puzzle in the affairs of immigrants, and the necessary steps we need to take in order to be more able to accept those here protected and to reconcile our welcome, regardless of how people arrive in the country. Finally, in our discussion, I wish the commission to make a success of all things.
