ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u1	Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the National Congress team to Inga Sæland, the 7th. Smoke. So, can't do any Senate work in the near future. So Mr. Svanberg Hreinsson, a member of the General Assembly, is a 3rd deputy of the party's list in the district and gives birth to 2nd under list, Helga Þórðardóttir, who is a member of Congress, but a deputy of 1st and 2 have announced incursion. A letter has also been received from Oddný G. Harðardóttir, 8th. South, that she'll be gone soon. Therefore, 2nd Specialist to the United States' list in the district, The Guðný of Birna Guðmundsdóttir, a member of the General Assembly, who has announced incursion to the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u2	At the request of the president, the national government has issued an announcement based on 1 mg. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! An election to Svanberg, the Hreinsson of Purge, and the Guðný - fearing Birna Guðmundsdóttir. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been called upon to discuss the vote and their success.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u3	Madam President. The government and monitoring committee has been given to make a announcement of the government's choosing of the Guðný - given God of Birna Guðmundsdóttir as 2nd General of the United States of the South and Svanberg Hreinsson of Ponson as the 3rd deputy member of the people in the city of Reykjavík. The committee has found out about their election and their votes and their votes and recommends seismics to confirm the election of the new Guðný Guðmundsdóttir and Svanberg the Hreinsson of Purgeon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u4	The Commission and Control Board recommends a unanimous confirmation of Svanberg's election and the Guðný-given Birna and considered it acceptable without vote if no protests are moved. Svanberg and Guðný Birna have not taken their first place in the Council and must therefore sign a solemn pledge to the Constitution. First, I'd like to ask Mr. Hreinsson to sign the vow and then Guðný restitution of Birna Guðmundsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u5	Svanberg Hreinsson and Guðný Birna Guðmundsdóttir have signed their commitment to the Constitution and are welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u6	The only part of the program, a general political debate, is broadcast and broadcast from the General Assembly Hall. The discussion is divided into two rounds, each group has eight minutes to the first round and five minutes to the second round. The order of the classes will be this in both circles: the group of members, the Independence Party, the Party of the People, the Propulsion Party, the Piratars, the Left Moves, the Green Pronunciation, and the Central Party. The speakers of the classes will be: For the United States of America, it's the first round of Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir, 4th. Smoke. n., and in the Páll Jóhannsson, 11th. Smoke. n. The members of the Independence Party are Þórdís Kol Kolbrún R. Gylfadóttir, minister of foreign affairs, in the first round, and Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, 6th. That's the north side. , in the second round. For The Gang of the People, Kristinsson Ingi, 9th. We're out of here. "In the first round, and in the first round of Loveth of Lóa Þórsdóttir, 3th. South, second round. The senators of the forward party are the Ingibjörg Isaksen, the 1st. That's the north side. " In the first round, and Vagn the son of Stefánsson, in 1st. Witchest. , the second one. Pirata's speakers are in the first round of Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, 7th. We're out of here. , and in the second round of Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, 11th. Smoke. The path to the program "umount" For the left movement ◯ green supply, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, 10th. Smoke. s., in the first pass, and Bjarni Jónsson, 4th. Witchest. , in the second round. Before the restoration, we speak in the first round of Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 8th. Smoke. So, and in the second Megbjörg Þorbjörg Sigríður, Gunnlaugsdóttir. Smoke. n. For the Central Party, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, 7th That's the north side. "in the first round and in the second Bergþór Ólason, 8th. Witchest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u7	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. It's spring, and then we'll have an optimistic outlook on the future. The students take off, the youngest children go to elementary school, the summer vacations are coming up, and most important, it's allowed to meet, hug, and have fun. Yeah, we're just learning to get together, except for our bullets. And what a pleasure it is to feel one another, for despite all that, the spectrum of human life is so wonderful! We who work in the political field must never lose sight of just this, the color of human life, and the purpose of our work to cultivate the soil of human life. It is said to have green fingers when growing plants, but I am not from the point of view that red fingers are the best way to cultivate a healthy human life because they take their color from the heart. There they find compassion and sympathy. To make the best possible for the people of this country and the rest of the earth, you must have a heart involving politics, active and open heart. And despite the conflicts that appear to the public from the Hall of Congress, our work together is often successful. Then I'm glad we had something to do down here until late one night, we were trying to sort out the current task. At the beginning of the last terms, the motto was infrastructure. Sadly, we still face the fact that many of them have become quite inferior. The health system is the heart that must be fed. V.E.G. The minister of finance, which has thus served almost without interruption since 2013, is very responsible for how taxpayers'funds have been set aside in less than ten years and who are the weightiest loads. It's not just us in the United States that have identified the lack of medical resources, it's seen in black in whites, in OECD reports, in Mckinseyr's report, or in National Re examinations of Mental Health, in nursing homes, or in other matters. Our health - care system is down, and it's been a long time, and now we're losing our best staff from the health system at the same time as a sustained care provider is in the health system. Health care professionals simply cannot live with the lack of understanding that the government has shown. There is really no way to say that there is enough work to be done when we face a problem every day. There's no room for that. There is a need for mental health care. There are years of waiting for necessary medical services for children and adults and ministers to allow themselves to come up here in the Ponta IIis and argue that funds will not solve the problem. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. A medical emergency is not a physical nature. It is a political decision to place for years a significantly lower proportion of land production in the medical system than our northern cousins do. However, the claim that this does not address the need for public service shows a very low understanding of the work. Moreover, we should not forget that because of the food and the smallness of this nation, the work here should be worth a little more than in the North countries. The five - year budget shows that the government does not intend to get financial support where there is plenty of it. Superinstalling companies will remain uncontaminated as basic services continue to decline from day to day. There is an increase in the quality of government ignorance and lack of understanding on the project. There is insufficient supply of health care, waiting lists too long, more projects being done, and more distress. This situation affects every home in the country, and it will not go away as we do not react with a considerable increase in financial contribution, even to the next year. When a government fund is so troubled by a pandemic, we need a government that dares to collect money from where it can be found. A respectable president. I want to talk about another heart that is the democracy itself and how we promote it. V.E.G. The prime minister spoke for transparency, trust, and cooperation at the beginning of the last terms and for building a bridge to establish a solidarity on how to resolve matters. I agree with her that together we need to increase our confidence in politics with more cooperation, but she needs to walk in both directions. The proposals of the administrative body here at the council need not be merely to show their power. We are truly doing well when, for example, we offer a suggestion that patients have an audience officer in the management of Home Hospital. How could it be a bad idea to allow such a voice to be heard at the board? How could it be a bad idea to agree to the General Commission for sale in Iceland Bank? How could it be a bad idea to finance psychological services or to ensure that pensions increase to the rhythm of biographies? We're doing a really good job, and I think it's damaging political culture here at the General Assembly and reducing our confidence in our work. But there is something else that reduces our confidence in politics. Civilist Alexander Henrysson discussed that statement at the time of the day. Prominent prime minister increases confidence. He, with President's permission, said that the transparency was actually the opposite of trust: ▪ We do not trust people when we demand to have detailed information on all their activities and decisions. [...] Indeed, transparency can be involved when [people] try to promote credibility. Trust still rests primarily on showing understanding of the role they play and does not stumble when pointing out the limitations that the role may bring. Where trust is strong, there is no need for unlimited transparency. However, we need effort to increase our confidence in politics. It has been repeated in waiting for the beginning of the reign of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and it will only change with recognition and understanding of the role they play. Good citizens of the country. Happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u8	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Somewhere I heard the other day say that it was unexpected and not happy to experience a time when words like a pandemic, famine, and world war began to appear in the news at regular intervals. Nevertheless, this is a test. After more than two years of the year when the Korean virus's pandemic almost dominated the world, an invasion of a nuclear power into a sovereign European state took place. As a result of this fate, the invasion of Ukraine took place the day after the health minister announced all the restrictions in Iceland due to the epidemic, and the next day the Russian bombing began in Ukraine, the limitations fell. The consequences of these two pesticides are revealed in the horrible fact that hundreds of millions of people, women, and children in the world now have the reality that lack of nutrition and hunger is imminent. In this context, we are the ones who completely build this country. At the present time, the words of the poem are true, and we are so grateful that we are truly from the world's battlefields, although here at the Council may not be directly said that we enjoy love and poetry. This is where we deal, and there's always a conflict, whether the occasion is large or small. This is often fanciful and competitive, and it is often the form that is easily faced, so it is much easier to call attention to negative and divisive matters rather than through upbuilding and objective discussions, in which mutual respect runs in spite of differing viewpoints. Certainly, it is tired to think that politicians, especially those in the greater part, are complaining about the piety and huffiness of government opposition and that I am not going to stand here and pretend to be innocent of such things. But we Icelanders can surely be thankful that the issues and subjects are often that they can now be classified as being serious to death in the large context. Conflicts between democratic elected agents, sometimes hard and sometimes hard to deal with, and sometimes unfair, are manifestations of health in an open and democratic society in which human rights are respected, and governments need to understand their decisions, and the people in the country have real options for where to go. Iceland is that kind of community, and that's how we want to be. However, while not always dealing with a case that is very serious, death is serious to the unpleasant practice of knocking on people and nations and not necessarily asking how well people or nations are able to deal with it. Then we need to be prepared. A respectable president. How grateful I am for the attitude that has prevailed in Iceland on the response to Russia's invasion in Ukraine! We Icelanders and I know that for nearly all the kingdoms of the earth, they trust primarily in the harmony of international laws to ensure that their borders and laws are respected. They are not many kingdoms of the world that alone could protect their interests if only military might controlled the fate of nations and nations. Since the end of World War II, there has been some general agreement that international warfare will not be tolerated. This order of international relations is the basis of the existence of many countries, for over a century before the end of World War II, a regular event that occurred, about every three years, that a kingdom was wiped out by the map. This was most often due to invasion and inculturation of neighbors. I have been thinking about this seriousness lately, and I'm sure that our minds of many of us wandered about the same area on May 6, as the president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskí, became the first foreign ruler to address the General Assembly. Zelenskí is the president of a nation that is at war to ensure its existence. Vladimír Pútín has repeatedly declared that he does not really believe that Ukraine has the right to life as an independent and sovereign state. For us, it was an enormous hour and a privilege that he would give himself a short time from his heavy responsibility, from the serious death of his people, to address us. On his address, Zelenskí spoke about freedom and said about Iceland, with the permission of a president: What impresses me most is that you will succeed in preparing a successful national life in spite of the harsh weather and the roughness of nature, and that your people will be safe and live in democracy. When you respect your towns and settlements, when you respect your people, you see that there is true freedom there, true culture, and you see the fine fruitage that each day brings you to the bosom. These words of Zelenskí remind us of what we have. All our prosperity and freedom depend on a peaceful world. This is a great understanding of land. For one thing, this was revealed in a annual survey of views on foreign affairs that the Ministry of State recently had carried out. It shows that about 78% of the people in Iceland feel that the prosperity is based on international cooperation, but only less than 4% consider it to be. It also shows that the same percentage of countries believe that Iceland trusts in international law and international institutions to ensure that our borders and laws are respected. When asked how Iceland cooperates with international Russia, more than 82% claim to be opposed, but less than 11% are neutral. And when it comes to evaluating Iceland's concern for international human rights, 83% believe that this is of great importance. Good citizens of the country. Me and the Icelanders are still lucky. Our main products will continue to have a easy access to the market, and their value will increase. It is very unlikely that peace will be broken around us. As we continue, we can be confident that we will have a place in the world's most powerful defense alliance, with a two - sided defense agreement with the world's most powerful military powers, and as participants in the European Economic Area, the most valuable market for our Icelanders. I stand here and speak for a political party that has played a large part in the decisions that have led to Iceland's living in this position. The independent party has been a protection for the freedom, prosperity, and sovereignty of the nation over the decades. I am proud to be part of that political party, and I am proud to be a member of a government that takes seriously its role in protecting the national interests of uncertain and complex times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u9	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. A new government is taken in, similar to the one which has passed away. True, there are other chairs at the far table at the minister's house. This government represents those who have enough to know about the existence of poor people, desperate people, disabled and elderly people. As often as before, the government promises a global review of the social security system, health benefits, and housing campaigns. But praising everything is not enough. Pain is talking. The least they say. A few weeks ago, the Supreme Court conclusively confirmed that the severe housing impairments that were long associated with pensioners were nonsurrectionable. The state violated law. Under normal circumstances, the State would give full relief to all who were under law. However, there is only a reciprocal recovery due to non-resurrection failure during the past four years, but not because of the overall period. Yeah, just four years, but not all 13 years. That's ridiculous. The government is not going to pay back the poorest microbe because of minor impairment, people living under the poverty line for the last 13 years because of minor failings, people who can no longer wait for righteousness in the absolute sense. The people have repeatedly called for clear comments from the government on how to fight poverty, how to reexamine the social security system, how to protect our homes, how to eliminate the list of waiting. According to financial secretary, over the past few years, tens of billions of people have been put into the social security system. Why doesn't the increase work in the people's pockets in the system? This is because the social security system is a flow system where capitals flow into the pocket of elderly people and disability, and from there they go right back to the state fund because of tax, impairment, and chain-based impairment. 100,000 bucks. From a pension fund, $25,000 is due. In the holed pocket, in the lucky one. This is gross financial violence, not just gross tax returns and impairment, but a clean and clear system of property that is directed toward poor people. The people who make a lot of money on the national common resources pay little or nothing for their uses and are allowed to hold on to their superheated resources. They are not taken in a decrease or a chain effect of tens of millions of dollars. Would these people agree to pay 75% or more of their money to the State? No, of course not. On June 1, each year, the great day of judgment begins, and God helps those who suffer such insurgent sin. On that day and many months after it, their pensions are severely reduced, and people sink deeper and deeper into very few. If you are lucky enough to get into the job market, you will suffer so much loss of income that it will be reduced to the point of owning. This means in human language to a microchip that received a quarter of a million dollars. This is a month before May's impairment of the social security system, only about 200,000 dollars is now available. paid for a year's tax and a month's decline. When the person has paid for an increase in rents and other necessary bills, only about 5,000 dollars remain. in a month to survive. It sucks. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Today, the health system on Mannula's bread legs is a persistent problem, and as a result, each employee is under greater pressure. Watchers are long, stress is intense. The staff of the emergency department have repeatedly called on the government's response to the crisis, but few answers are available. I wondered if there would be such a host of people in the medical system if health - care professionals were to have a reasonable and reasonable schedule. Although the waiting problem is not new, the government has passed it year after year and even decades. Today, there are about 1,000 children on a waiting list for necessary medical services. The worst of all of this is the need for children to wait for a vital service. One waiting child is too much. Ten percent of young people in Iceland have considered suicide attempt. It tells us that there's something really wrong with our defective system. Children should never have to wait for action or wait for justice. There's no room for political shooting in the underprivileged interests of children. All too many children live in poverty in Iceland today, and it is a disgrace to all of us in this room. I am sorry that we, who live in a rich and rich country, let us allow thousands of children to live in poverty and, unfortunately, also in a very poor condition. For my part, it is a serious matter if a person cannot seek medical help because of poverty or the release of his medication. Children's improvement and an increase in their limit of impairment are not effective. Children experience increases in food consumption and increases in various other costs across all directions, e.g. Real estate fees, car expenses, parishes, radio fees, garbage disposal costs, and more fees and taxes. These are costs not only to eat up the small benefits announced in government action but also to cause the worst of them to harden the belt. The people say, " First and then the rest. ' We have repeatedly suggested an increase in tax shortages in order to ensure a total of 350,000 dollars. a month of tax and inadequacy. We have bills and suggestions that deal with health and education problems in order to ensure that no child has to live in poverty, much less starve. Also, children are not forgotten and buried on a waiting list until it is too late to do something for them. Sadly, the government has prevented our case from taking place, even the bill for the prohibition on blood control, which has been given the record count and the majority of the nation supports, a case that is involved in the prevention of harmonizing an animal to get a hormone to exploit another animal. This is nothing more than an animal's worst type, but it will not be approved here at the General because of the government's opposition. A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. What's wrong with a government by a government that, at the expense of the worst in the country? The people who do not have a knife and a spoon also live in a rented market at high rent costs with the sense of insecurity. The poor are being kept alive for the worst in the country. The worst of them in our society was in distress while the rich get more and more wealth - we should not accept that. Good citizens of the country. Have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u10	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. What a privilege it has been to work in this hall for the sake of making our community better for an Icelandic nation! The projects have been many and varied, and I would have chosen to have been able to overcome more issues during this council, but this winter work will continue to work at the next council. All the points discussed are important, yet there are some. The nation's energy situation has been especially for me. It seems that in recent years people, both here and in the community, have avoided talking about energy, and they have led to a shift. Look is that resolution has finally been broken. In the Treaty of the Treaty, the aim is for Iceland to achieve a non-carbon share later than in the year 2040, with full energy exchange and then be free of fossil fuels first. It is a noble goal, and it is ours here at the Council to keep the watch. But to reach that goal, it is important to look at the bigger picture. We need varied solutions to energy. The new inducers, the existing dynamics of the fortresses, the funding of electricity transport systems and distribution systems, and the emphasis on improved energy efficiency and energy saving are all in preparing us for the future. To meet energy requirements, it is important to issue new activation permits. The examples have proved that protection and use can go hand in hand and there we go. At the same time as countries around us are looking for bright light to find new environmental energy sources, we have access to national greener energy. We are rich in natural resources and can use them wisely and in harmony with nature. It is inevitable that there will be increasing opportunities for green energy production. There we can make peace with regard to nature protection, cultural memory, efficiency and sustainability. At last, the harnessing of wind power is on course for real, but the use of the wind energy needs a powerful transport system and a water source that plays. The aim is to build a two - wind gap in a country owned by national activation. Here the State is taking an important step. Wind energy is both practical and renewable and is such as one of the better options for future energy efficiency. Today, no other nation boasts of such a high proportion of green energy from total energy consumption as with Iceland. That is why we can be proud. V.E.G. An internal minister proposed to this assembly a bill for a change in organizational laws that help with the performance of the electrical transport system. It is imperative that electrical energy transport systems are built up to serve the objectives of electronic energy for security, efficiency, and efficiency. This bill serves the future. A powerful transport system is the key to energy exchange and success in climate. Electric transport systems are not tolerated, but each year about 10 billion dollars are lost. by the current transport system. These are opportunities for building up. At the beginning of the convention, a pandemic still arose, but we began to see a country with the hope that the world would accept it after a long winter. Right after the outbreak, another challenge came to us; the Russian invasion of Ukraine, who will touch us all, and the consequences have stretched their scent here. Ukraine is the largest manufacturer in Europe, but grain is the foundation of animal food. The lack of food in this country can cause a cessation of production in egg, poultry and pig culture and reduce production in cattle, milk industry, and to some extent in sheep culture. Also, farmers face difficult decisions after a great rise in prices for the war. The situation is very serious. If there is no response to any offer of domestic products, the next issue may be greatly added to the country's food security. The importance of food safety and the use of Icelandic agriculture has long been focused on our advancement. The agriculture industry will be protected and will look for permanent solutions to the future challenges of farmers. Witches have reacted even. by improving farm payments that make up for extraordinary cost increases this year. V.E.G. A food minister has appointed a team to work at a rapid and reliable pace to address the rising prices for farmers. I was confident that the Outfit will offer practical suggestions. The Agency's group has discussed the suggestion that farmers receive an exception tax on inputs coming as tax on the manufacturer to two years of age. In this way, there is no other foundation for farmers whose consumers do not feel the price. The promotion has also led to further cooperation by the products of the carnivorous industry. This can result in a far greater economy within the product range than is currently available. A respectable president. There are various challenges. In recent years, there has been tremendous pressures on the health system, and the program is large. If not for all the human life we possess, there would be nothing in our health. Man's work in the health sector is a major challenge here, both at home and abroad. The Covid epidemic put a lot of pressure on our prospective health - care providers who went through a lot of work. Such solidarity and selflessness helped to keep our health systems going. There, perseverance and outwardness played a key role in the unselfish work of our prominent people. We can't thank them enough, but I want to take advantage of this opportunity here and say to them, "Thank you. While we may be tempted to evaluate the world for our own reasons, in big business, we must be able to develop the ability to understand the circumstances of others and to look for common ways. I know that we here at the General Assembly can fit across the line of years in order to work on improving health systems. With cooperation and conversation, we can get through any surfer. We build on a good foundation, but it takes strength and courage to continue. The Icelandic people are essentially positive, resourceful, and stick together. That's all we've got. - My fellow Americans. I look forward to continuing cooperation. The summer now welcomes us, and I want to wish everyone a happy summer and hope that everyone will enjoy the Icelandic summer. We deserve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u11	Dear society. The autumn of 2017 was a change in the air in Iceland. Four courageous women had grown up and took away the veil of the secret prime minister, Barry, the Bjarni of Benediktsson, with the care of his father's arrival to raise up a child nefart. The government exploded, and the #metoo wave started at its height here on Fonón. It seemed that most of the left movement was offered a green one with the palm of the palm of the hand. They presented the president, Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir under the slogan, to better do better. Here was a leader who would engage in new and different politics, while the old theme of secretism and gangry that had been dominated. Here was a leader who viewed the Independence Party as his chief opponent in Icelandic politics. Had prospective V.G. found its way into a time machine at this time and ran five years forward, the person would have had trouble believing his own eyes when he saw what his vote would have returned. Thanks to the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, capitalists have never been better. In fact, money from the stock market has rarely or never been greater than last year, and it was quite high in the dating industry at the time of the height of a baby crown virus. In the case of the financial crisis, the land's enterprise paid 63.7 billion in interest, thanks to its abundant government support, money that ran from the taxpayers' pocket. Not to be overlooked are the raisins in the hot dog end: people who had enough money to pay for the crisis made a lot more money during the crisis. For example, the richest 1% of the country's population were able to sweep 45% of all capital incomes in 2019, a total of 58 billion in one year. Best of all, they had to pay only about 26% of the tax paid. At the same time, about 50 percent of the people in the country and more than 80% of the disabled are turning around because they cannot afford it. Nearly 7,000 homes live without material benefits, and children in that situation are increasing. More than one third of immigrants, more than half of the unemployed and single - parent families, and 8 out of every 10 microdoers find it difficult to make ends meet. Thanks to the individual government's economic control, the statistical increase in housing prices has made it possible for an increasing number of people to have trouble making ends meet, and more and more people have the means to buy their first apartment. Inflation has not been higher since 2010, and rent prices are rising. Government response is paying off 20,000 bucks. partial improvement and a slight rise in disability and housing costs. Who would have believed this five years ago? Who would have believed that the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was in those words working to beat Iceland's record in the mass of refugees? That in a time when a number of refugees have never been more successful, they are working hard to get a bill through the council, which is the main purpose of helping governments to direct refugees to the street, whether in Greece or here at home? Who would have believed that there was a medical emergency? That nurses are pulling out one another because many years of emergency health care professionals cry out for overcrowded hospitals, persistent insecurity of patients, and inhuman stress have been answered with laxness and facades and claims that there is just no money left in the system? That during the reign of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, nurses were twice sent to a court asking for fair wages and that midwives were sent the same route? Who would have believed that the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir needed a report from a government accountant to decide whether it is acceptable behavior that Bjarni Benediktsson has sold his father part of an Iceland bank in a closed process? Of course, it is as if the woman who had inspired counsel on justice for the lesser and most needed help is now the most powerful ally of their owners, yet still demanding more, at all costs. And that, together, they and their groups, including the advance, are single-handed in the task of lightening the high-level layer of life with a torn tax rate and sponsoring, at the expense of the public. Yes, who would have believed in VG's company in 2017 that this would be the situation today? It takes an entire army of espionages to keep this play going. It must, for example. Some very clever commercial call to think of this inspired confusion, found in the introduction of the new covenant of the packs, which says, with the permission of a president: the cooperation of these three categories, which spanns Icelandic politics, creates a balance that is an important basis for progress. Balance, which is a basis for improvement. What does that mean? Nothing. This is a typical empty foam strip made from an image - guild political body that must justify its own mistakes. And it is just as if they are actually believing the tape themselves. When the prime minister introduced a renewed government during the fall, she expressed her strong faith that cooperation with such groups could even determine the outcome when it came to creating harmony with the nation and solving much more difficult work. Still, they do not achieve any agreement on the big and difficult tasks between them, such as the energy issues, framework, banking, the starving policy of the health system, the constitution, and the cooling system, just to name just a few. Yet, it is now that the vast majority of the people want governments to act against, not to, inexorably, the pressures of taxes on the richest people. The vast majority of the people want a strong public health system, not a well - chosen health system. They want righteous changes in fishing and a new constitution with fair and powerful rules. Where, then, is the harmony? Where Is the Balance? In fact, it's not really hard to sit and do what is right because we know what the public wants. But instead of fighting for the change that the vast majority of the people of the country want to do in their community, the left movement has developed an alliance to maintain stability on bank books a small lower percentage of the nation, which contains the richest and most powerful people of the country. And who would have believed that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u12	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Eventually, the first session of St. Katrín's Second Government of Jacob's Jakobsdóttir has passed. Over the next four event years, the three government groups have shown that the viewpoint of different categories, which span the political spectrum, can unite on a broad basis on land and nation for good. And what unites us all here at the General Assembly is that we have the will to work on a better community. The foundation of the left movement is green production; environmental protection, women's freedom, international peaceism, and social justice are excellent support for the future. These foundations are relevant everywhere. I've been thinking about the importance of social reconciliation. The government's government covenant speaks of its importance in the context of community important factors, in order to form changes in the fishing system as well as in energy. It even says, by permission of the president: "So far, we must rule over new fortresses to build a green and non-carbon society. The important thing is that there will be a cautious approach to the more sensitive nature of the land. In all decisions, it is important that we be careful to look for the interests of the present and future generations, that we have sustainable development guided by a balanced balance between economic, social, and environmental factors. It's different that we can't make community peace. The recent loss, with a pandemic of crown virus and around us, has shown us the toughness that exists in the Icelandic nation. We have been fortunate to have those taking the lead in making decisions based on the nation's total interest. The effectiveness of Iceland in fighting the pandemic shows that decisions based on best scientific knowledge are successful. But we now face new challenges. The vicious attack of Ukraine today on the part of the Russian government is based on 19th - century ideologies, a 20th - century debate, with weapons of the 21st century. None of us can imagine the horrors of Ukraine's inhabitants. The worldwide invasion of Ukraine, including the economy of the nations, is expected to affect the world. This and economic hardship followed the measures taken by the world's nations because of the pandemic, as well as the major existing projects - and I am most common in the world's fight for man - made climate change - will affect economic government here and earth wide. Although the temporary slowing of the rate of growth in the budget, we have a good reason for making decisions during the last term when expenses for socially important infrastructure and litigation, for the development of environmental and climate and social and health care, were greatly improved. Now, though, it is important to approach the project with zeal. In the left movement it is our opinion that the restoration of the economy from a pandemic would require green and support for the goals and development of a non-carbon cycle. Despite the challenges, there is good reason to look to the future with confidence. Substitutions and employment prospects in this country are excellent, and we can see that tourists are on land as never before, and they are alive to examine a number of new, peaceful areas all over the country. You see, we live so well that we have more than 40% of the remainder of Europe. It is riches that we must take good care of, for ourselves and for future generations. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. We have every obligation to stand with people in a delicate position. The least part of being a peacemaker is that of complacency, but it is often brought forth as a shock to us who adhere to such a course. As peace lovers, we have the opportunity to fight for our ideals and peace with the compassion and respect of all people. It's more urgent than my feet that we won't win a war with war. Iceland's involvement, as a nation without arms and armies in international conflicts, is founded on speaking for peace and providing the least protection and protection. Ingi In Guðbrandsson, social and employment minister, has already used himself for the welcome of vulnerable groups, including single mothers and their children from Afghanistan and disabled children and their families from Ukraine. Then, a social and employment minister agreed that Iceland would specifically welcome the families of young Afghan refugees who were protected in Iceland after 18 years of age and could not apply for family unity due to age. Then there is a major project, to shape a clear and comprehensive policy in the affairs of immigrants, which brings me great rejoicing for the diversity of our society. These measures are part of the social justice that my movement is teaching itself, and they are also a foundation in the population we want to build; that in Iceland all of us are welcome. This end of the council is designed to form the matter of prime minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who legally forbids discrimination by race, nationality, religion, biology, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender, gender characteristics, or sex expression outside the work market. Similar laws are available in the labour market and are product of the same minister from the last term. The situation of gay people in Iceland has improved dramatically in recent years and was particularly happy to see Iceland rise five seats on the rainbow card of ILGA Europe, end of Iceland among the great European countries when it comes to legal status and rights of queer people. These results include: The product of good works during the last term, including sexual autonomy laws as legalizing the right of individuals to change their sexual registration according to their own experience. Then, the General Assembly for the treatment of prime minister's arrangement for action in the affairs of queer people has 2022/2025, which includes further improvements to gay people. The fact that the government meets righteous changes in these categories is clear evidence of the influence of the left movement ▪ green production. A respectable president. My fellow Americans. The left movement has proved to be the political movement that has the courage to handle challenges and projects, political movements that do not hesitate to cooperate with others, who can lead and point the way. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u13	Mr. President. My fellow Americans. According to tradition, kitchen - day talks indicate that the government is adapting to the kitchen after the harvest of the council. This morning I thought about it when the social media was filled with pictures of smiling elementary schoolchildren who proudly held their graduation cards, knowing that their next adventures were just beyond the corner. Then the question arose: How does the government's rating card look after the first year of a renewed partnership? The challenges of this council have been many. Some have been following us for a long time, others coming in new, and then we said goodbye. This is the winter that Pútín invaded Ukraine, with disastrous consequences beyond its reach. Our neighbors and cousins, Finnar, Sweden and Danir, have thus come to appreciate the importance of revising their foreign policy and promoting cooperation with other countries. But it seems the government of Iceland is afraid to examine our status in the changed world and is not going to reevaluate our security and defense interests in spite of our new reality. And that's too bad. One of the greatest challenges to this government, the most important test, is to win the State Fund. There is a need for measures that do not show evidence. On the contrary, the value of total government funds is expected to rise by 200 billion dollars. over the next five years. Intriguing financial policy works against money policy. It forces the Federal Bank to increase the direction of our ancient enemy, the inflation. Thus, home interest costs increase because the government's actions work against the objective of the Federal Bank. In addition, any dollar the government spends on interest costs because of continuing debt collections as a lost investment, lost money that could have gone into building, which would increase production and produce economic growth. This situation is due to the fact that the government has already been in irons for a pandemic, and it is not bad to see any evidence that the government is offering solutions here. President. Another test of the government during the winter was the sale of Iceland Bank. If there's something left uninhabited in the Icelandic soul, it's selling banks in the years before collapse. All realized that the methodology at the bank sale today would have to be above all doubt if the matter was to be settled and, in view of how successful it was to ask, did the government simply not care about it? In either case, the trade process became another issue in government relations, not because of the goals of sales, but because of the outcome. As a result, the sale of the remaining section of the bank is owned by the state for a moment, according to government minister, and hence more than 100 billion dollars. An investment in the infrastructure and subsidies of a planned extra debt. How will the government face this changed position? By reducing essential infrastructure? With more debt? By a tax raise? We haven't got the answers, but we're waiting for an updated financial plan. We all know that Covid put tremendous stress on our health system, but the epidemic also exposed various weaknesses in our system. It led to the spread of long - term health ghosts who were left unscathed in the dark, ghosts such as the exhaustion of staff, patient walkers, and waiting lists that are increasing each day. It is time to bathe the ghosts with light to drive them away one by one. Unfortunately, however, the government will be late called the Ghostman. It is her failure to cope with this important task. It was also winter that the common people became interested in the fishing system and its consequences, positive or negative, thanks to the Versatre. But I fear, unfortunately, that real changes in the rightness of the nation's share of the sea resources will be realized during the reigns of these three governments. I fear that it is fully experienced that important resource regulations will be placed in a constitution that confirms the country's ownership by means of time-seatures, fully confident that the nation is paid fair and natural sums for the use of the resource. Of course, the same subject is available for other natural resources, e.g. in the context of nature protection, in the context of climate and energy generation. We no longer have time to throw our hands on these categories, and the public interest must be in charge from the beginning. Mr. President. I talked to you about the indifference of the government in international affairs. That was not entirely fair, for the government has shown great interest in tightening our alien law against refugees, so much that the chief weight of the government seems to have gone through in the last days to bring it up. Even so, some government advisers are talking about the individual's freedom. However, within the national part of the world, taking steps to increase freedom is very opposition. Hence, such matters do not succeed in going to the Assembly Hall, just at the centres of these same ministers. For example, the tiny policy of selling alcohol at the manufacturing site became a minor matter of freedom. Too big for the government parties. And where is the bill being proclaimed to the highest. Health Minister for the delinquency of consumer doses? How's it going to be? In his fourth attempt, Minister of Woods, do we intend to put a cab bill through? This is the word of the ancients: Better is the less speech, the less the Instant, the more the action. Mr. President. I've been picking up a number of major challenges that the government has faced during this session and how it has managed to meet them. What grade would the government give itself? Does she like the winter and the works? Are all ministers proud of their class movie? Mr. President. Good listeners. This year's graduations are soon behind us, even here at the Hall of Congress. Icelandic summer lies ahead in all its glory. I wish us all a happy summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u14	President. Good citizens of the country. In kitchen - day talks, it is customary to consider the product of government. Today, this government has been in charge for nearly five years, including the two years when the government entrusted the government to the government of the country. It tells of itself that it was the best years in the history of this government. But now she's lost her Covid Suite and it's time to get back into politics, but it's not really the special domain of this government made up of a left-arm, one of the former right-hand parties and one opportunistic party. The solution was to be to operate as a system control, but although the system was largely controlled, there have been many things that the government groups have been up to. I'm going to try to give 30 examples of the government's fruitage in six minutes: 1st The government took a U-turn on banks. She returned one bank to hedge funds and privatized another without using a unique opportunity to reorganize the financial system in the interests of public and business. All those ministers warned themselves or none of them did. The minister disagrees about this. 2. The government took on funding the U.S. election campaign in Reykjavík on a city line without anyone knowing how much it would cost, let alone the business. 3. In cooperation with the mayor, the government is driving up Reykjavík, the airport, out of the Watermelon, and has received special thanks from the mayor. 4. Less rural societies are less in grace, and the government tried to achieve legal alliances. A number of the government's operations are about clean warp. 5. The Independence Party Environment Minister is now talking about environmental policies that appeared to be too extreme in the VG a few years ago. 6th The government issued a ban on oil and gas production in Icelandic jurisdiction and a ban on research at the same time as the importance of developing enough energy for the Western countries has never been more than that. 7. For decades, the government decided to ban free measures that have improved the quality of children's lives. It is forbidden to make some progress in medical science. 8. Plastic bags were prohibited, plastic tubes and equipment. As a result, people are increasingly obliged to eat food with wooden tiles. As a result, the trend in that area was retreated before the bronze age. 9. Although Iceland is the most environmentally friendly energy manufacturer in the world, the government was on the verge of bringing up more than one member of the climate that new goals and goals were repeated. Meanwhile, forget that by energy exchange, you need to increase your energy production. 10. A Framework Programme is trapped and has been converted into tools to prevent more and less all environmental projects. 11th The government has been at enmity with an independent health care organization and even a volunteer organization, but it has worked on unprecedented compression of the system. As a result, evenUnable to connect to POP server %s. Error 12th Waiting lists are increasing, and this week's review published a complete review of the government's performance in mental health. 13th The promise of the advance party in its time for a new hospital in a new location was only to shut down the ideals. It was so betrayed before government talks began. 14th The legs are growing and growing, and they've never been bigger. After her head, the members dance, since the Ministry of Presidency has been spreading in the history of this government, more than in the past decades combined. 15th All records have been increased by political assistants. 16th The government has spent more money than any government in history, money that developed in the past of another government. At the same time, however, income and savings are lacking. 17th A new burdensome rule involves hard work to the point that smaller companies have to hire just to meet the growing demands of the State. 18th The tents and penalties are raised. The policy that the State would not lead to pay backs was ignored at the beginning of each year. Inflation is rising, and fuel has never been so expensive. But the government fails to reduce taxes or new green fees, even temporary. 19th Throughout the five years, agriculture has been confined. Now that there is a real food security issue, the government appoints a committee led by Steingrímur J. Sigfússon after halting the Central Party's proposal for food production year after year. 20th A food minister intends to handle sea - treatment issues, but he does so by appointing 146 people on committees and advice - or 46. 21st The board is intimidated as if she was laying down a whole class of cab drivers who had to meet the ever - increasing demands and fees year after year. 22nd The legislation on sexual autonomy is under way without considering factors such as right and safety of women, effects on women's sports, or things that are being discussed extensively in other countries in connection with the increase of rights. 23rd Out of the water, the government decided to set world record for how long an abortion might take place. The prime minister said so much further and allow abortion to continue until the birth of a child. The other groups gave in to it. 24th Children's well - being has been promoted to political advertising, but when they look at them, the measures seem primarily to be about altering hot strains and making projects. As always, it's all about packaging rather than content. 25. A promise to older citizens has not yet been fulfilled. 26th The government will receive repeated reports on an increase in the scope of organized crime without answering the police emergency call for more resources. 27. Of course, all of this is about chairs, so action was under way to the point that the Ministers themselves did not seem to know their role and even their office's name. As a result, ministers are freer, talk out, and south, often in opposition to other ministers. 28th During the last term, V.G., the minister of the Independence Party was dismissed from the government, but I don't think it could happen any other way. 29th Iceland is the only NATO country where the government leader is opposed to the alliance. 30. Even though Iceland is the most distant destination, the government has repeatedly joined a high - tech population in northern Germany. It affects our ability to help those who need help most, including those who need help most. Now the Ukrainians are like the highest. Minister of Justice acknowledged. Sadly, this is not a complete count and Senate operation is not over. Now it seems that the Independence Party has hidden part of the government opposition to rewrite their bill of foreigners introduced a few years ago as necessary correction of the system. At the same time, the band will go against a bill that has fallen to advertise Iceland further as the destination of those planning mobilization, a case that runs contrary to the policy of other northern countries trying to control who come to the country. Who knows what else this government will accomplish in the short time left of the council, so not to mention the next year, but by this government, we got the cat in the sack. Thus, it can be said of her, as was the song about the Christmas cat: Out with this government, she has done a huge harm. - Better times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u15	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. This can't go on much longer, and I think these good people who run the government now know deep down. The projects we face are calling politics. Well, well-traveled politics. But they also call for the ability to follow through on it and to run a well - being community that works here. The political problem of this government is well - known. They do not have what is needed, which is a clear, united view of the biggest subjects. And that's why they delay difficult decisions and put the system on autopilot. But, unfortunately, as these are all nice people, it's becoming more and more apparent that they also have administrative problems here in this house. Or what is it else that stands out when we look back at what has now come to an end? First, it was the circle. They needed to increase the number of ministers, to confuse a little with the plots, with irreprehensible cost, and no benefit to the people of the country. Of course, the other big issue that stands out is the bank sale, which was so dramaticly carried out that even the toughest of the right men, the most private industry in Iceland, just screams. But this isn't what I'm most concerned about. What I'm most worried about, and in the United States, is that the same problem, the same lack of vision and ability is beginning to undermine what makes us a welfare community. And more and more people find it. Normal people around the country feel that welfare services are not working as they should. I think a lot of Icelanders are waking up to a bad dream. Or how does it feel for parents to be in a hospital with an injured child and to have to wait eight hours for care? What is it like for an elderly person to spend days in a hospital setting because he needs a place of nursing? And how do you think it is, what do you think, for a child with developmental impairment or mental problems, to not just reach out, to have to wait one and a half, even two years after the necessary diagnosis and service? It's a long time in a child's life. And this is going to happen in one of the richest society in the world. But those on the longest wait list in Iceland, if not just the longest in the whole world, there are people with limited skills. It's Iceland's disability. They are still waiting for the justice of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, who is supposed to come in the form of an overall review of the future - an overall review. But until then, you can't do anything. My fellow Americans. Now it is not clear that our health - care system has a major problem. Secretary of finance says that this problem cannot be solved with the increase of money, not at all. What, then, is he saying after a ten - year government session? He is saying that the ministry is a treasure. However, he is at the same time acknowledging a serious management problem; acknowledging that the government and the Ministers failed to ensure the effective use of funds to build up a functioning health system. But of course, this too lacks funding, and experts point year after year, and no one knows better than the people on the floor, the people who perform this service. And perhaps it is only to be expected when the government's funds have been compromised within, when the government's income stocks have been dwindled by tens of billions and thus were undermined to run the welfare of Iceland. It is a political decision, and it certainly is not a socialist. My fellow Americans. It's getting kind of sour, and it can't go much longer. Jobs are calling. We need to get involved in politics. We need skills, new leadership, and clear their own strong welfare bitch.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u16	V.E.G. President. Good Icelanders. After the election was completed last fall, the greater part remained stronger. The country chose continued stability and politics on a broad scale, guided by the progress of Icelandic society. When adversity strikes, how we have been able to make the best of our life is crucial. A high debt standard enabled the government to deal with the pandemic rapidly, defend its population, and ensure strong resistance at the beginning of this year. At the same time, when it is good to look back on matters, it is our job to look to the future with criticism of political assignments. After the challenge of the pandemic, society is now facing new challenges. War has broken out in Ukraine, and global inflation has been increasing over the years. Meanwhile, the maintenance of the economy in Iceland has done better than at first. Thus, new reality is being watched as tensions need to be reduced in the economy in order to protect money and resources. At the same time, governments need to contribute to more valuable things in order to live up to the national standards of life. The standard of living is just as much from the way we handle our entire budget as the one left in our wallet. More money is constantly being called for, but it is not uncommon to discuss how we get more for each dollar. The wealth is not an inexhaustible resource, against the ideas of many in this hall, and now is the time to step on the brake. The improved standard of living is not available at the bargaining table or in this hall here. Rather, it is the product of greater wealth in the whole country. The most affordable way to increase valuable things is to nurture not only the deeply established sectors of industry that have maintained social wealth but also to contribute to the founding of new jobs, wax, and prosper. Then energy and climate opportunities are high. As we look at the debate about the demand for energy in the countries around us, it is as if some here put their heads in the sand. The wording is that here we have activated our last green energy and that the solution lies only in how we use energy better or when the fact is that we are growing, and at the same time, we have a lot to do with energy exchange. Iceland has everything to do with globally leading to energy and climate. Like Iceland, we were among the first nations in the heat - treatment industry, we should aim for the first possible energy exchange in transport, anyway, in cars or heavy transport. The minds, education, and knowledge of energy and climate can become one of Iceland's main exports if we succeed in the coming years. The best contribution of Iceland to the battle of climate addiction is not only to take a good example but also to support other countries in their way. My fellow Americans. Iceland is the land of opportunity. I firmly believe that the best way to ensure a successful society is to ensure equal opportunities for those living here. We are a few people who trust in each one of us, so it is important that we here work for each of us individually. We have built a powerful society with which all major indicators are measured outstanding. And it is on the basis of equal opportunities that we need to keep building. A powerful educational system is the best way to ensure equal opportunities, and I feel that there is far too little time here in a chamber to discuss how we break down the walls of the past to work for the bright future of our children. I yearn to discuss freedoms in education, in the field of middle management, and the increased access to creation and freedom of choice at school. That the progressive studies of teaching methods carried out in the universities of the country's university ratio somehow into the classroom. Focusing our children's interest in the future To leave behind the lesson that each one has his own good fortune. We Icelanders are in the core of a optimistic nation. We live in a land where nature regularly resembles itself, whether it is earthquakes, excessive snow, volcanic eruptions, or even the blessed lice. It is then that we show our best spirit, our perseverance, and our courage. My fellow Americans. Enjoy the summer, whether in the rain or in the rain.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u17	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. The star offlation is on the move, and all the rods are on fire throughout Europe. The situation is serious and looks like it's still getting worse. The difference, however, is that inflation has little or no effect on domestic housing in countries we would like to compare with. Icelanders are in absolute relative position because we attach loans and rents to the index price of consumers. It's all about it. allur. Second - door banks in the world are more likely to decrease interest than growth, and if they have increased, this is done with great caution. In the United States, however, the cost of housing is greatly increased by cutting down on the problems that were enough. Many homes are unable to cope with the rise in housing above other prices. How unacceptable it is if the government once again sacrifices its homes on a bloody altar of insurance or rising interest due to uncontrolled inflation! The situation is gravely serious, but in the reply of the secretary of finance to my inquiries on these matters, he will be told about the quality of his homes and that their financial status has never been better. What I've been trying to say to the highest. A minister, but not successful, is improving his own financial status as a result of an increase in real estate evaluation, not a decrease in home debt, is no sign of anything other than a controlled housing market. In October, it will be 14 years from the collapse of the bank. Following that, 10,000 families lost their homes in forced halls as well as at least Another 5,000 homes were lost because of some kind of emergency contracts with demanding workers. The collapse itself did not take long, but the journey to the homes covered years, longer than those who escaped. I myself did not make port with my home until November 2018, after a violent and difficult battle all the years before. So there is still wound, and there is no healing. Happily, parts of this group have again seen the sun and have even been able to buy homes, many of which are vulnerable. Much of those trapped in a rented market today are there because their homes were removed from them in the crash. They too are few, and some I know about personal matters, who just lost their health because of the pressures it brought. It was as if their resistance was fraught with terror, and many of these people today are desperate. Today, homes are being milked again, and many of them have become bloodless and sick. How will this affect the economy in the long run? If not for homes, who is the stability? Yeah, at least Fifteen thousand families lost their homes after the last collapse. Many of them were caught in the hands of geared roommates for shoals, shoddys that even the family would have been able to survive if they had been able to do so. Where should rent - rent families go if they are not already under rent, which is now more than 50% of the provisions, even up to 70%? We must prevent what happened after the crash from occurring again. But this will be the case, if it continues to increase the budget at home, with an increase in the cost of housing. It does not take a genius to see that the government is completely irresponsible to turn people to the demands. We all know their methods. There the whole point of view is to maximise profits for the shareholders, and the rights of consumers may be of little value. Today, the government is in a state that is asleep, ignoring the shock that is faced by people with moderate income or less. Home is the center of our existence. The box covers our life and safety, where we find refuge under pressure. Our safety is based on it. I know what it's like to live in a constant fear of being removed from the security that the home provides and eventually lose out for reasons I had no control and could do nothing about it. I wish no one to experience it and, in fact, have resolved to prevent anything like it from happening again in Iceland; that homes are never again sacrificed for the financial system. But it is in the box where the government cannot even be drawn into understanding that money for the present curses simply does not exist. But who will lose, and who will heal if thousands lose their homes, as after the last collapse? The banks will make money and make all their investors very rich and happy. Families will lose, and many will be left homeless, with consequences. The tenants of these families in special markets will likely be obtained in order to rent them back. Companies and investors will make a lot of money. Society will lose because where are all these people going? It will be the responsibility of a state and a community to secure a roof over their heads while the vultures count the money. We will have to find all kinds of things, and at times at expense measures, where the victims can be found and then socially packed. Families and individuals would be devastated and with painful wounds that are difficult to deal with. Their stock would be great, financial and personal. Is this the society we want at last to see the sun? Or do we want to do this differently this time? But who will lose, and who will heal if no one loses their home in the present condition? The banks won't lose, but I'm sure they won't make as much money as anyone else, and what's wrong with that? Families will keep their homes and will be able to get back on their feet despite temporary hardships and safe havens. The tenants will keep what they already have, but they will not get more on a silver garment, which is good. Society will heal, as fewer people will need social assistance, and fewer will be weakened by stress diseases, so that children will not be discussed. In the foundation, the same applies to the companies. If they or their activities move fewer, we could look forward to increasing unemployment and problems, which would also cost society much money. I ask the government minister to revise their journeys and at least gives the homes the assurance that no one will lose their home because of their temporary problems, such as those we are going through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u18	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. I want to talk about moving on. During the past four and a half years, much has been accomplished in spite of centuries. The government has managed to straighten out and sail her in the right direction despite the turbulent waters of the Korean virus epidemic and now the Russian invasion of Ukraine. But we're going to move on. We have many national contracts waiting for our payment, and it is up to us at the General to watch them, change and improve them, and finally take care of them in the best possible way. By means of conversation and cooperation, we work best in behalf of the community. In advance, the whole country is being planned, both urban and rural. No one's supposed to show up for the rest. We are to unite in the goal of leveling the residence conditions across the country. People are not to be discriminated against by any form of residence and much less by the administration. That work contains many of the balls we need to catch. Based on local and regional developments, there are lawsuits that we should be doing high below our head. In the past of this government, steps have been taken toward an equal standard of residence. These include Unorthodox jobs where public jobs are recognizable. Are they local, or can they be won anywhere? The latter should be defined as a job without a location, a job that can be performed in a sheep's home, Iceland, Reykjavík, or the city property. This project is important to the country and can change Iceland's stage in a positive way. Also, I wondered, " Is it time to use our tax system to match living conditions even more closely with the facilities of people in more remote areas? ' That way we can, for example. Allow SMEs to continue to be encouraged outside the capital area. By doing so, we can add a wide variety of valuable things to the country and invest in people. The examples are available, but this has given us a good opportunity in Norway, where the tax system has been used in support of urban development. In recent years, we have made major transport campaigns and have a lofty goal of continuing on the road. This is true both in the capital area and in the region. The basis for the competitive society and prosperity of the nation is satisfying transport. With good transportation, we reached a high level of housing, but transport is a means of building and building valuables. It's important here not to push the brakes. We're going to make a donation, cut distances between settlements, promote international employment and improve traffic security. As we progress, we believe in the growth of multi-channel employment instruments across the country. There they play a large part of the job. On the same side of the die, there are innovations, tourism, and exciting opportunities for filmmaking. In the country, agriculture and fishing areas are agriculture and infrastructure of Iceland's food safety. It is important to be on guard not only for those working there but also for the benefit of consumers and the national food security. Food security is a national security matter, so we should view the group. In agriculture, many struggle to find land on land in their current position, and the war in Ukraine has not improved conditions with increasing costs for resources. There is no time to find solutions to today's situation of farmers. In search of solutions, farming and fishing arrangements need to be performed. The importance of reconciliation and cooperation is undisputed, and the views must be guided by the new work of consultation with the European Commission on the policy of food ministers. The work ahead varies in size and size. With cooperation, conversation, and respect for differing opinions, we will get through them together. That's the job. Good citizens of the country. I wish the senators and the people of the land a joyous summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u19	Dearest nation. During the brief period since then, I have been thinking about one of the basic factors on which our work is being built here at the General Assembly - the very power of our trust. What Is Power? It may be called power, custody, authority. Being in power is being able to influence the world. A result. In a broad sense, all of us possess some kind of authority, at least we have authority over our own convictions. In fact, we base our democracy on the very person's authority to make a decision based on our own convictions. I love democracy because it works out of harmony with the playground, because when we take all the money, all the weapons, all the beautiful promises, and all the information out of the account, only the human conviction we all have. The democracy means that we agree to let the power of the individual over his own position drum all the other factors, to let the individual rule on his own terms. When the people choose to serve their interests at the General Assembly, they allow their power echoes from the voters and all the way into the House. The power to determine the future of the nation is placed in the hands of us senators in the good faith of voters, hoping that we will make the right decisions on behalf of the people who briefly lend us their precious power. It is one thing to have authority and another to use it. As we look around us, either at home or elsewhere, we find the greatest truth: Such power is not being applied everywhere in a reasonable and just way. Power is difficult because it corrupts. Total power corrupts absolutely. We should not be surprised that people have difficulty giving up power, handing it over, or scattering it when it acts almost like a drug on their hands. Hence, in many respects it is less important who is in charge, but the more important it is who ensures that the Ruler does not lose control under the influence of the power. ▪ Who is guarding the guard, and how can the ancient question be applied today as in ancient times? Who is responsible for being blinded by power and puts us all to harm? In the last ten years, Pirantars have been on the watch. Since the beginning, piranha have fought for the increased distribution of power, more and outright democracy, increased transparency, honesty, and political responsibility. What also distinguishes Pirata from other categories is loyalty to the struggle for human rights, to violence, and to the other kind of yoke of the less powerful ones - in short, to the balance of power. We may be few here at a council, but our strength is far beyond our size. We draw strength and strength to the values we hold dear, to the solidarity we find in our community, from people of flesh and blood, and to the satisfaction that results from reaping the fruitage of our labor. There's enough there to be taken. True and true, we have spoken with people who are submerged or condensed in our society. We have fought violence and persecution, even violence on the part of the State itself, against women, queer people, persecution against people who use drugs and people with mental disorders. We have fought poverty, discrimination, discrimination, and rights, as well as other factors that can be attributed to the above - mentioned balance of power, which is often maintained by those who are more fortunate. Just one year's past, we have prevented a bill designed to legalize mental health issues rather than eliminate them, protect the rights of refugees, fight corruption and the personal interest politics, the rights of victims of violence, and the interests of both our and future generations in climate. No matter what happens, Mr. Piratar and I take a hard stand with our common values. They're never for sale. Not for gold, not for green forests, not for votes, not even for a vacation. It seems that sometimes people get irritated. We are called uncooperative, uncontrollable, and inflexible when our ideals for democracy, human rights, and individual freedom to self - determination contradict the intentions of the Supreme Ruler. As a result, efforts to distort the truth, to mislead the discussion, and to turn the nautilus so well upside down that a democratic ideal might be thought to be the chief enemy of democracy. Before we know it, two and two will be equals five. Who is guarding the guard? Perhaps one day the nation will be able to intervene in itself in the power of the new constitution. Perhaps one day, the democracy and the self - determination of the people as it is today must be ignored after practicality. In the meantime, my dear people, the Pirates will stand guard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u20	A respectable president. The rest of you at home are sitting. Now that summer is over, and the first session of a new assembly and a new government is behind it, it is normal to look back, but also forward. I want to discuss here today's security, something that affects all of us but certainly has different manifestations by where we live. In our peaceful country, safety is primarily a home where shallow wood plays its key role. In recent years, natural disasters have reminded us to set priorities in social infrastructure, those subject to national security, electricity, transportation, communications, and security access to health services to ensure basic services and housing for the inhabitants of the country regardless of their habitats, such as medical flights to the use of Mixtoll airports, safe medical services in Gundars and elsewhere. We need continued efforts in transportation and further development of transport within the communities to strengthen the communities that have established them, to bring people closer to one another, to their work, and to their services. It is important to improve the development of structurally with better transport within them, as well as between them. We must also take on bigger projects and put first things, such as the Slysavík tunnel, which is of utmost importance to the community. There is strength in national security to provide equal access to basic services. In this context, the availability of medical services was largely increased during the last terms required for older people and microsurgents with the delinquency of comets. Similarly, it is the key to establishing a home in vulnerable areas and ensuring the safety of the population in many areas. It is important that the choice of people who choose to live abroad, in the community that fosters it, or where they want to live, do not have to sacrifice the safety that all of us should enjoy, and that access to medical care will be improved. The scattered regions play a central role for the nation and for the work and food safety. Helps to ensure the benefits and positions of smaller settlements are to support the shallow working roads, coastal areas, agriculture, and food production. From the beginning, the left movement has emphasized responsible resource management, made an unsuspecting demand for sustainable use, and highlighted the importance of basic research and strong educational community all over the country. I'd like to thank you for the quick response of the Food Minister for the serious status of farmers due to the Russian war effort in Ukraine, which is a sign of the movement's movement that agriculture will become an integral part of a sustainable community in Iceland and a valuable development in the scattered areas, that we are a safeguard for food security on our terms. During the last term, the Icelandic government set aside ambitious, financing climate goals and financed the operation program to follow through. We, along with other nations, have accepted international commitments in climate matters, as well as the protection of biodiversity. These assignments are closely connected and interwoven. We need to make sure that together we have targeted and effective action on climate and protection of biodiversity habitats and nature protection. It is our global duty to protect Iceland's nature for future generations, for nature itself. A respectable president. We must not lose what has been achieved by better communication and peace in the continent over the last few decades and how we react to common challenges, such as the climate problem, the destruction of ecosystems, and the efforts to achieve climate equal rights. Europe is now at a critical turning point in which basic values and wars are shaken. It is a matter of life for the successful future of the continent that its nations work together for the support of democracies, human rights, peace, and security of people whose right to future generations for human life is guaranteed, where national self - determination rights are respected and communication and solutions are determined by mutual respect. My fellow Americans. In the end, I want to thank you. Councilmen for a good meeting here wish them and all the rest of the country a joyous summer. Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u21	The President of the Generals. Ladies and gentlemen. Naturally, during times of peace, security and defense are not at the top of people's minds. It is only when security is threatened that many give real attention to these factors. That time is now. It will then be clear that all of us are in good stead because we live in security. War again is Europe's reality, and it is the role of politics to deal with real and responsible. World leaders must discuss how a change in world order affects the nation's interests. Russia's attack on Ukraine is, in effect, an attack on Europe all, an attack on the values we believe in, an attack on a general state, an attack on freedom, an attack on democracy, and an attack on human rights. This is also reflected in our agreement with Ukraine and our response to the attack: Economic pressures of previously unknown weight and historical measures to support Ukraine. And the agreement here at the Council has been strong. The war has made a major difference in European politics and European national interests. It is for this reason that more Find, and Sweden is now for the first time in favor of NATO society and that these nations applied to become members. For this reason, in Denmark a national agreement was carried out, and Danir decided to take an unknown step in sharing in the defense work of the European Union. For this reason, there are far more Icelanders who are now in favor of the European Union than those who are opposed. Therefore, all political groups should unite in the use of political discussions on the impact of Europe's war on national security and protection, on what it means for an armyless nation to belong to NATO but not to the European Union, on the translation of further European cooperation for Iceland, on the benefits and defects of Member States. Those who take this question seriously know that the answer to basic questions is not necessarily simple, but the discussion must be discussed here as elsewhere. The attitude of restoration is that the interests of the Icelandic nation are better protected in further cooperation with other European countries, that we are better protected inside than outside the European Union. But our stand is also clear that this decision must be made on its own. The political groups that oppose Iceland's involvement in the cooperation of sovereign nations in the EU should not avoid this conversation, they should welcome it, take part in responsibility and seriousness. It is irresponsible to now say that Europe is not on the program. It reflects fear, and fear is never a good guide. We will see how politics handles its responsibilities and fulfills its basic role in all around us. Political leaders and classes view it as their job to lead conversations about how to react to the situation regardless of their position. This discussion has not been conducted because everyone agrees, but no group says that these matters are not on the program, as we're sorry to hear in this room. The open and direct discussion of political interests has been made, and as a result, the policy of these countries is clearer. Nor does it sound that national regulations are a problem, as has been said here. And then I ask, "What's so dangerous about how to protect the nation's interests?" The answer is simple: There is nothing dangerous about that conversation, that is the opposite of the dangerous conversation; silence. The democratic conversation is the right setting for reasoning, even dealing harshly. It develops the discussion and sharpens the nation's policy. My fellow Americans. In times of peace, the government of Iceland is not so much as to be split up in foreign and defense. Today, however, this is an obvious weakness. In times like this, the question of whether the interests of an armsless nation is better off in active cooperation with other European countries. After the second world war, democracies recognized that peace would be guaranteed not only by military defenses but also by the close cooperation of countries that would see their advantage in increased cooperation. That's why European idealism is so beautiful. The European Union is founded on a peaceful relationship, and our neighboring countries have no doubt about it or the importance of it. Neither are Russia's neighboring states, now reaching for membership. The situation now teaches us what the need for democracies is for cooperation in terms of security, as well as for baselines, sovereignties, freedom, democracy, and human rights, business and economy. We all depend on the respect of the international and international laws. We are stronger together as a team. A national agreement on this conflict of interest that the nation faces and the debate in its leadings is a wonderful way to develop the discussion of Iceland's interests. It is not only natural but essential that the nation be allowed to make that decision. We are to trust the Icelandic people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-08.u22	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. An odd first assembly of this election season is about to come to an end. We know that we are in the room, but for those outside, there is not much that suggests that the end of the council is near unless the discussion here is taking place right now. There are large issues that the management parties intend to complete, such as financial planning for the next five years, and e.g. The bill to correct the adjustment of the routine of a taxi vehicle, which the Minister of wooders yearns to provide, for now, the third or fourth time as it is believed, that, together, no guests, no stakeholders, have been placed before an environment and transport committee to argue on and against the case. But it's not just the end of Congress that's strange now. Many were surprised last night when the head of the Independence Party responded well that during the election period, the global reexamination of the Icelandic fishing system under the direction of the left - green Food Minister. Despite the nation's basic way of working and acting indiscriminately in terms of its regulations, the seabed, with its prowess and flaws, can have serious consequences. It might have been better to say that the chairman of the largest board of directors was behind the fishing system, the system that has proved to be more than national preparations and is to imitate others. The middle tribe will not leave its mark when it comes to standing on its feet in behalf of the inhabitants of the sea and the people of all the land, with the fishing grounds. However, there are other areas of the basic work of the nation that are strange in the conduct of the ruling forces. After repeated indications of severe agricultural status, both due to the accumulated problem and the emergency due to increase in prices and resources, the answer to a food ministers was to set up a group, as they were called, to resolve the situation. This was done ten days after responding to the inquiry of Erna Bjarnadóttir, a Middle Party deputy. It asked, with the permission of the president: Do Ministers believe that further measures are needed to ensure the supply and survival of farmers in the months to come? The minister replied: "The information the Ministry has at this point is not expected to produce a lack. A respectable president. There was a ten - day gap between what the minister said nothing had to do until she put a team in the case. Pop group. The lack of communication with the real world reached new heights. All of the farm workers were long aware of the seriousness of the situation. If it is the government's intention to reduce food production in Iceland, it is more clean to say it simply, rather than starve the farmers of the country to the point where they are falling from farms and the important task of producing the most healthful agricultural products in the world. V.E.G. President. At the same time as talking about energy exchange is getting a lot of space in the discussion, thinking that the mind will not always follow a case, except for those who consider the electricity to be the source of the injection. Problems that face still remain unsolved. Now in the fifth year of this government, and in the third year from the so - called Adventist storm, when everyone had become aware of the weaknesses of the electrical transportation system and the importance of strengthening the public system, the use of the so - called electronic bill has not yet been completed, and its position in a committee has been referred to in this way to show that there is no real desire in the administration classes to finish the matter. There has not even been a call for visitors to the Environment and Transport Committee for the matter. And today, according to the General Programme, there was to be two days until the end of the council. No visitors have yet been called on for the case. Then, on days of strengthening the distribution system of electricity - a respectable president - this is, of course, some joke, but this is, unfortunately, at the expense of the country. A respectable president. Soon after the council. In many ways, this first assembly of the season has shown us that the attempt to unite political parties from the left, center to right has not been made to move society forward. It is so that conflicting issues are needed to make changes. We here are supposed to deal with ideas, policies, we're supposed to deal with whether the government's scale is going to grow or decrease. We are to address whether traditional civil values that have brought the nation from poverty to prosperity in a magically short period of time should remain in the foreground, or whether we will walk on the behalf of the judicious religion now that now occupies the Western world, the wakeism where the wrapping is more important than content. If we don't cope, we don't deal with ideas, politics, and solutions, we'll rush asleep to fruit. Good citizens of the country. Enjoy the summer. Use it to wonder what community you want. If you want a community based on individual freedom, moderate interference by government, a society based on the solid foundations of the legal state, and not where the courts of the street will be equal to the formalities, I encourage you to rest well this summer and take the talk with us middle-class members in the fall. Let's take the discussion in the cafeteria, at the kitchen table, in the hot pots, and in the sewing clubs, because that's really gonna matter. We have to start talking about ideas. That's how we move on as a community. My fellow Americans. Good day.
