ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u1	A respectable president. With the sale of Iceland Bank last March, the government failed the nation's trust, and this in a very important matter. At the bank, 22.5% of the government was sold with an offer system, reaching 52.6 billion dollars. The file %1 has reached its maximum seed limit. Do you want to connect to the server? In this matter, the shadow of disaster still rests upon the nation. By this decree the country discovered that the government, the political, the Allied, and the government have not learned anything from the collapse in October 2008. That's the real message she just sent. 82% of the people are unhappy with this commission. It's been thirteen and a half years since the collapse, and when you get to Iceland or you're in Iceland, it's like this crash, this so-called crash, was two, three years ago. Out in the big world, almost everyone has forgotten what happened in 2008. That certainly had political consequences, but the communities have long gone over it. Iceland hasn't passed it yet. This publication shows that the Icelandic government, both the ability, the ability and the political will to privatize state banks and perform as simple a thing as selling shares in banks, does not seem to be able to handle it. As an independent nation, a small nation in the North Atlantic, it does not seem to be able to have a well-deserved and independent financial system. That's the message the nation's getting. We don't trust that. In the collapse, the nation was betrayed. Some 18,000 families lost their homes. Regarding the bank sales, the General Act of 2012, No. 155/2012. You might think that those who did this would not have studied the principles of this law and how to conduct it and apply its principles. It's so obvious when you go over it, it's simple law and it's really as simple a law as anything. There are a lot of things in this law; transparency, efficiency, conditions, and such. It tells itself that when the state starts selling an item, they need conditions and, by permission of the President, I want to read Article 3. The law: When making a decision on the preparation and implementation of the sale site, the open sale procedure, transparency, objective and practicality should be emphasised. Practically, the highest price or market price for property is applied. Care should be taken to ensure that conditions offered are reasonable and equal. In that case, sales should strive to promote active and natural competition for financial markets. There are six things. Open sale procedure. This part was not an open trade process. It was closed for sale. Good-bye. Transparency. Was there a transparency? Yes, in the end there was a list of participants. There were, of course, published documents on how to do this. Yet, following the invitation, the list of buyers was tried to keep secret. Icelanders quoted a personal protection law, that the buyers under 1% were not to be printed. That's a big part of the buyers. That's up to 200 parties. Now I've been working with P.S.A. for four years abroad, and I was shocked by the conduct of an Iceland Bank in this case, it was covering up the case. That's what they were doing. The Icelandic nation has a wealth of public interest by getting to know who was buying. It's also legal that the list should be published. The translucency requires a list of those who made an offer and bought to be published. Otherwise it's not transparent, it's as simple as it is, and public interest is quite explained. The chairman of the Bank Office quoted that probably - he probably used the word - should not print the names out of the bank in 1%. Bank secret is classified to customers, not shareholders. Everything was tried. I believe that the directors of Iceland's Bank should resign and look for employment other than being in the bank, at least. On behalf of the government. That's a total loss of confidence in the bank's managers from now on. However, the art was published with a certain degree of transparency for buyers. Of the objective and final approval of the operators who called - there was no objective. In terms of costability, extra demand discounts were sold. It's not practical. It says that by practical means the highest price or market price for property, so it was broken, it was not practical. In addition, the law states: ◯ This is to be taken into account that the conditions offered are reasonable and equal to those given. I asked the highest. Secretary of finance twice in the past: What were the conditions? What conditions were set? The only conditions I know were that professional investors were required. This has changed to qualified investors. The term qualified investors does not exist. V.E.G. The prime minister used the term qualified investors and then now the highest. Secretary of finance. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Simply put, it is someone who himself can make an investment decision and weigh the risks involved. It's a professional investment, it's no bigger than that. In fact, the law says that people can wish to be considered professional investors. The estimate of the risk -- it certainly takes a billion business, but to insist that a person buying for 1,100,000 bucks, when the public bought for one million in spring, that he is a professional investor in the sense of participating in a closed outlet, just failing to hold a few opinions, none. So reasonable conditions and equalities were not in this decree. This was not done, and the minister has not answered the requirement of any other than that it was a professional investment. No criteria seem to have been submitted, not every one. Today, the minister of finance speaks of some of this as a successful invitation, a closed invitation. However, it should be reviewed by the Reconnaissance of the State. Iceland's secret bank is looking into it, and the F.O.S.A. is looking into it. It's not because it's a very successful invitation. It's just not like that. Of course, an independent committee is needed to review this matter, so that trust in the banking system, trust in the government, and confidence in the International Assembly can be gained in the community. That is how trust will be restored, and it did not come about too much. Let us keep in mind that a financial market in Iceland is underdeveloped. There is a very experienced Icelandic banker who works in a financial trade in Ukraine. He was here before a crash, had a financial firm here. He said he was an expert in underdeveloped financial markets. Where, then, did he find expertise? Yes, in Iceland. We haven't gotten over it yet. Well, about Iceland's reputation, he wasn't much of a person. After the collapse, Iceland's reputation collapsed. Iceland had, before collapse, and at the privateisation of the accounts 2003, an enormous reputation. All of this was wasted before collapse, and that reputation collapsed completely. What also ruined Iceland's reputation was that a few years ago Iceland was put on a list of noncooperative states when conditions for money laundering come up and were there for a few years. That list contains countries that have actually not developed the financial system in any way. Now it comes out again, this sale. It's very well arranged that it's not to increase Iceland's reputation in any way. Secretary of finance earlier said that this campaign had sold at 50% higher price than six months ago, a 50% higher price. It is important to inform the minister that banks'profits increased by much more than 50% between 2020 and 2021. There the profits increased by more than 100%. It grew from 29 billion in 2020 to 82 billion in 2021. Is it any surprise, then, that banks are up - to - date? Actually, this is not enough an increase. Respect for banks is a result of self - worth. That's what's being done. They're selling banks here without competition. This means that the banks can decide for themselves virtually what the profits are. It's actually being granted access to self-employment of profits here. That's what reflects the price. Maybe it should be the best. Secretary of finance studying the non-competitive nature of a Icelandic bank market. That's perfect. The lack of competition is a complete failure of the government and the government of the banking market and as the owner of two of the three largest banks in the country, there is no policy whatsoever. It is more likely to increase the profits by tens of billions, from 29 billion in 2020 to 82 billion a year, in 2021. There is more than 50 billion increase in profits. What actually drives the profits of banks is not the policy of the government or the government of the bank market. No, it's probably the petitioning system of state bankers. That's what drives the profits. It is not that governments or governments have decided to compete for competition, so the common people benefit from the competition of the bank market. No, it's not done. It's more like it's driving up the profits, and this coin, that 82 billion, comes directly from the public, and there's no place else. That is the result of lack of policy. The second result of this lack of policy today is that Iceland's property, property production of public, ordinary people, is far worse than that of neighboring countries. Now, at the little time I have left, I also want to point to another subject that has been discussed here, but that's 4. law on the sale of the government's holdings on financial companies. It shows that a minister should decide whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract on behalf of the State on the sale of its property. A respectable president. It is said here that the government's opposition is saying that a minister should manually select those who are approved. No, of course not. The point mentioned in this article is that a minister will decide whether or not to accept an offer. Then it is to agree on whether the buyers met the criteria or not. It seems that governments, ministers, finance ministers, and banking agencies have not conditioned this closed auction unless they were professional investors. There was no requirement for the buyers'quality, their plans for the banks, or for the continuation of their share. Many sold immediately and bought $1,100,000. is a small investment with no meaning. Of course, this open invitation was to be held if something was to be done and not closed for selected professional investors who could be buying $1,100,000, it's totally funny. Then there are some foreign investors, foreign counselors, and how they are being done in the world. If someone starts to talk about it, if you start to look at the lists of the people who bought, for the small money that was actually buying, relative to the business that happens - as soon as you start talking about being bought here by 1,100,000 bucks, for a coin, that's about the pension money. There are tons of people in Iceland who have tens of millions of dollars, if not more, who aren't a pension fund, very many people who would have liked to do this instead of buying their third or fourth apartment. But that was not done. The fact that a minister has since delivered power into Article 4. beyond the Ministry, to the outside administration, without law, there is also a violation of the law. It's crystal clear. I've been working at the Ministry. Of course, a minister himself was not to go over it. It's all the ministry that's going through this, and that's what agrees with it. The minister himself does not begin to do so. That's the way it works. He makes it absolutely clear to the bank office, and I've never heard so much abuse of terms around here, like an arm length, and other concepts just for the purpose of splattering up a mudwood and paddling the discussion back and forth when the law is very clear, crystal clear. [[The president calls.]] If I were a professional investor today who had a legal interest, I'd take it to court to get it confirmed that the law was broken. [[The president calls.]] I think it's the highest. Ministers should accept this, and the General Assembly of the Icelands should agree to a board of inquiry in this case. [[The president calls.]] That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u2	President. We need to understand only the scope and frame this in just to try to be a little perturbing in this as we have tried to be in the government position, but we have a real problem with what a financial minister is letting us run over in all kinds of strawy games. The Ministry of Economics - and this is from the Ministry of finance itself - says: ▪ As it is commonly used, prices of the price are determined by the final day's stock discontinuation rate and are granted a small discount. The reason for this is always important - the increase in market invitations and the demand for a suitable professional investor to buy a larger item, with uncertainty about the exact development of the day's survival in the following weeks. And from the Bank County report, by permission of the President: A closed message for qualified investors is provided by means of an proposal. It's only been confused between qualified professionals and qualified investors, but in the law it's exactly the same thing. These are just two terms on the exact same subject. All right. But it's here picking in a lot of smaller investors that are buying just over what the public got to buy last year, which can sell the next day. Certainly it was not the greater part that sold, for nothing has been said of it, except for a natural minister toss it over everyone, but it was sold the day after and the next few days and weeks, though quite much. If I see the right thing on the Felt, almost 400 million shares were sold on that tender day and some 100 million this week were then sold. These smaller investors that can sell the next day, they're being given the discount. It's not next weeks. The point in this campaign is that the State is committed not to place more items on the market for the next three months. The first invitation was six months, that there should be a reference period on how to develop into the way it's working at the auction. V.E.G. A minister says very often that the other one, and this doesn't hold his mind, and let's think only about it, as much as possible. Minister says: We have achieved most of our goals. If we're looking at this in some fair way, we've got a hell of a lot of success for state funds around Iceland Bank. We have seen the bank's value rise by 100 billion. Now, a submerged bank goes up very easily. We were warned that the bank was subversive at the first tender, very clear. When a minister sees exactly the same demand that was then, there were no flags: Wow, here may be overexcited, beyond demand, and I could sell the bank at a higher price. No, he sold for all the permissible items, 35%, not just 10% or anything like that, trying to get the stocks back together or something about it, like munching the other in a little later, in order to get a larger part of the first shipment sold near the right price. There is a lot to reference to ABN AMRO and Alight Irish Bank, which were sold with a similar arrangement, their stock prices in the same arrangement remained pretty much the same next half a year after such an invitation, almost the same, only rose in ABN at first, but after six months the stock prices remained exactly the same thing as in the tender tenders. It was a relatively successful tender outlet, they say. We have a 60% increase in six months, a 60% increase. It's not very successful. Let's look at how we sell banks under law. The banking board is monitoring the situation of selling banks and informing the minister. The minister decides whether to agree to Bank County's proposal that it should be sold, that there's a good situation. There's been a time when the Bank Board said, "Hey, that's a good situation. And a minister responded and said no, for it came to Covid and something so fun, or boring, so it's a minister's decision whether or not to follow Bank County advice. The minister then looks to Iceland's World Bank for details, and in a report, he should provide information on key goals for the sale of property objects, such as this. The names of the council are to be given time to make comments on the subject. It's just comments on the subject of the report. This time, far from now on, the committees of the council were not given much time. In fact, it was just a week of the Senate's work, where we had guests twice, the Bank Office, the Ministry, and several specialists on the case. At this time, a minister should then decide whether or not any sales therapy will be initiated, taking into account the comments of the Council if the minister wishes, or not. So when making a decision, it is to emphasize the opening process, transparency, objectiveness, and practicality. It says that if possible, the highest price or market price for property is searched. It is understandable, when choosing a particular situation, or trying to choose a particular group of owners or something like that, that the highest will be the same. That's understandable. When trying to find the future owners with the proposal, as indicated in the report, it is only natural to give a slight discount. We totally admit it. There's nothing wrong with that. There's something else wrong with this. The government's banking agencies are preparing sales, looking for offer, etc. And when an proposal is made for a possession, the government's Department shall submit a minister of reasoned reviews, and a minister shall decide whether or not to accept an offer. There is now a law on the sale of the government's ownership of financial assets, including By this means, by permission of the President: ▪ This means that when dealing with property items, potential buyers are evaluated by the way they intend to run the company in the future, such as social responsibility and its future structure. They try to see what future business will be like. The bill assumes that public property items should be offered for sale. Depending on the possible methods for sales of enterprises, it may be different than the methods considered. depending on the situation and the size of the company, as well as the market situation at the time of the sale. Government attitudes and goals are a key factor in the choice of each route and the need for this choice to be always in place and not to be overcompensated by law or rule. There are a number of ways to consider selling property items in financial companies, including general stock tenders, registration of financial companies' letters to an orderly stock market or bidder. And also says: It is essential that the proposal and decision to take an offer guide these parties based on the criteria and conditions laid out in principle for sales management. 2.g. and present in the advertisement or oer to prospective buyers for tenders. But what criteria and conditions were set? It is a requirement to reduce the State's risk of such a large part of property, to promote active competition or climax recovery of state funds, to contribute to the wide range of healthy and distributed property over time, to increase the possibility of investment, and to reduce debt. There were no particularly many comments made on this, the general structure, but there are points in the report - it was being used to sell to larger shareholders, that professional investors, qualified investors, were buying bigger shares. And it is clear, in a closed offer process, that it is very important that other rules about when a minister is considering whether or not to follow these criteria. In a general tender eviction, as it was for the first time, when you were 24 to 25. Of course, they were buying, not to go over every man's offer. Of course not! The question that a minister has on whether the bioavailability has not been for everyone - such questions as this is a minister to ask them. But when it's closed, there are other rules. Then a minister must review each offer to see if there are conditions. In a closed outing, it's all important - this is key - to the highest. Minister sold his father a share in a government company. It's not that complicated. This is the key to everything. There's a lot of other screw-ups, but this is the key to the Minister. The minister sold his father a share in a government company. And try to explain just why that is a serious matter. We have a law on action against money laundering and the funding of terrorism. It speaks of individuals at risk because of political ties. When Mom goes to the bank to open a bank book, she goes on a list. Here's a person with a connection to a politician who has to sign a bunch of papers. When Dad's financier's about to buy an item at the bank, he should report it. That means a secretary of finance should know when he's signing an offer that his father's buying a bank. He's supposed to know about these laws. We also have a minister's code of ethics, stakeholdership and conflict of interests. Ministers, on the other hand, avoid personal conflicts between the public interests and their financial and personal interests and their families and make sure that their jobs are not affected by personal contact. There's more. It's a administrative law. There is an incompetent situation that shows that the employee or committee is incompetent to a case if he is or has been a partner, duty, or mothering a bone catheter or in some other way associated with the adoption and family ties. And it is specifically explained that when a minister becomes incompetent, this is explained in a paper by that law, and gives place - it is full of condemnations for a minister's seat. It was, for example. One of the candidates was being appointed as judge, and one of the candidates was involved in family ties. This is not to be surprising to anyone. I think the latest was when the former environmental minister stepped aside because of the national protection lawsuit and replaced by another minister. There's nothing that should surprise us that when a minister is going to sell a part in a government company, he's incompetent from A to Z. He can't escape it by saying, "I didn't know. That's why we put this in law, to make sure. There's no reason you didn't know, you should have. Not only is it said in the law of money theft and protection against terrorism that it should be made known when it is happening but also because of that association, the possible informal relationships that may apply to these parties, family members, etc., which makes it impossible for you to excuse yourself by saying: I didn't know. The secretary has even. Said he told his family: "Don't buy. " He knew that there was a problem. So when it's time for a closed tender order, a minister should pass through the bids. Had he done it, he would have seen: Hey, here's Daddy. I'm incompetent. I have to sit by. He did not, and this is neglectful because he is expected to examine all the offers. It's a minister who makes the decision. It's very clear in all the laws we have set, all the protocols we have set, that there is incompetentity. It is clear what a minister should do and what a minister would not do, and then it is an neglect. It's not complicated. There are other factors in this process that you would like to make comments about, but there are some minutes left. But I give this viewpoint special attention because some sort of riot seems to be in the process of getting a minister by throwing the bank office into front of the bus. I'm not saying that the Bank Office is something sacred - it's written that it's also a mess, in my opinion. But it's not either. It may be that both the Ministers and the Bank Management Board, and even the sales advisers too - they're fucked up at all levels. This does not mean that we can solve that problem by throwing the bank office into front of the bus or perhaps some sales adviser and saying: Yes, there. We found the problem. Then let's ignore all the other problems. Let's ignore the fact that a financial minister sold his father a bank. - That won't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u3	President. The objective is to get the government out of business -- actually, I don't agree with this, I think the main goal is that there is trust in the community, and there is no trust in these sales. But all right, we can disagree on that. Hv. A senator does not realize why we are in this discussion today. We even had that. I've had a note from Bank County that we could be talking about here, but we're not talking about today. Hv. A senator says that it's all turned around about someone's choice of hand, and then he can't choose a hand, and he can't choose what and what. The discussion was about whether the sales advisers had handled their friends, and then a financial minister would have ignored the fact that 200 names were on the list and should have made a comment, not necessarily selected. Here, too, many people turn their heads and talk about mudwood when people are just trying to get to the bottom of a very serious matter. I wondered: " What do I think? A senator saying that foreign people sold themselves out in a moment of instant last? What do you think? A senator saying that it was a post that was in debt to take a twist at this tender auction? And there's no responsibility for these little partners as long as there is. A senator disapproves of having received a purchase?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u4	Mr. President. We have not yet received information, e.g. ... aboutmybullencourage. Reports are being told, we're still planning a news transfer, telling the press a few days ago that large pensions didn't want to pay unless 112, and that's why less investors were important to raise the price. We don't know. Senator, we haven't got enough data to figure this out, but this is at least a news report on this case. The other thing is about the foreign funds. In the bank office's announcement of the stockholder, we don't have information about who briefly stood us, but I reiterate, as I said in my speech, that we had no particular obligation to keep the assets that were bought in this campaign for some particular time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u5	A respectable president. In some ways I can agree that it is not preferable that we are discussing things that we do not know the answers to. Here, however, people come up because of the highest. The secretary of finance repeatedly shows up during interviews and talks about the fact that nothing has gone wrong. Yet all of us are waiting for this information. My role at sale prices -- yes, these are just speculations and in some way, I would call, after explanatory, but I'm not going to sit in the court seat here. With foreign sources, this is known. You can check the list at Iceland Bank and see that these foreign funds are no longer registered. This is official information if people, for example, are public information. shareholders at the bank. I finally wanted to ask if what. A senator does not share that sense. The chairman of the budget board and most of the budget board that it was large ininvestment, long-term investments, which should be primarily among these groups, as it seems to be estimated to be 80% of the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u6	A respectable president. All the publicity for the budget board, and I told it in a discussion earlier about selling stocks in Iceland Bank, and when we discussed this for the first time in this council hall, it was estimated that there were large investors on the journey in this manner to the bank. But as I also said, it was not excluded that smaller investors could be involved. I stand exactly with a sense of what. The chairman of the budget board on how we understood the greatest context of this method of sale, but we must seek a large amount of assets. And so did it. The discussion is about a large majority of the people who have a very small property share and those people who rip a patch of a wound that is still not fully developed in our society, the names there are. I don't suppose anyone ever thought about putting it in some kind of law how to rule out that person from obtaining such things in Iceland today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u7	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator of the profits he mentioned in his talk. They're selling banks without competition here. The profits of Iceland's Bank in 2020 were 6.7 billion. The profits of Iceland's bank last year were 22.7 billion. It's already been observed, including. Professor Gylfi Zoëgi, believes that the competitive environment of the banks is such that the SEC should begin a study of this competitive environment, as it did regarding the oil companies. The list of services is unclear, the format of bank prices is complex and unclear, so consumers cannot compare prices. The growing difference is far too great. A cheap credit card cannot be used in Iceland. That's what's behind the profits. It's a profit that's not in a competitive environment, and I'd like to ask why. A senator: The bank is now being sold competitively and believes that the lack of policy in government and government will sell it to give self - worth - that by then competition will all of a sudden increase in the fact that it will become a personal activity? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does he think private people are acting differently than the oil companies do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answer. I'm just saying, in the beginning, a dignified president: I think competition is increasing when we break up ownership of two thirds of the bank market, that the two largest banks owned by the state are now having a vast and diverse group, rather than a two - bank holding by the state. I think this answer is obvious, that this is the first basic step we take to increase the competition of the banking market. Second, a respectable president, I'd like to say, it is very clear in the Union's writings on the grounds of a bank sale that, in particular, is careful to avoid being the dominant owner of a pension fund, which is here all in our financial and professional lives, that there is another factor we need to look for to further the competition of the bank market. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, I will not disagree with the factors that arise. A senator listed in a material way the lack of competition, the cost of service, and such factors. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In terms of large market parties, such as the pension fund, as bank owners, now there are a number of the little people who bought in this closed shipment sold and also the foreign bodies, as shown in case. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter. They've been selling themselves out of the banks right away. Who's buying? It's the pension fund. The pension fund is simply buying at a higher price. Those who pay the profits of those who participated in the closed invitation are the pension fund. Why were they not invited to buy more? They wanted to buy more. Now they have to buy at a much higher price, and those who pay their profits as salesmen who were allowed to participate in this closed export are the pension fund. Of course, they were to be sold at the start. It wasn't done. Another problem that is also a problem is the conditions and the opposition to government, accused of raising a mud storm that the minister should handle those who are allowed to buy. What the sales advisers were doing was that they were calling their friends and best clients and inviting them to buy because there were no real conditions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Maybe a what? A senator informed a body of elders about what other conditions were given but that these were professional investments. [[The president calls.]] I don't know about any conditions, and no one's ever shown up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u10	A respectable president. I think for the first time, if we wanted to expand our competition in Iceland, we would have to give our pensions more and more to leave the country by means of our investments. Second of all, we don't have any information that pension funds wanted to buy more gangs. Hv. A senator, where do we have that information? Then I'll wait for even the others. The Bank Management Board can inform us about this. Sooner I can't tell you how healthy it is in the light of what a dog is. A senator threw up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u11	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a report by the secretary of finance on the Bank County, and we have to tell you right now that the corruption and dreary promises are coming out of every crack in this case. It sucks to know that these matters have been resolved in this way. If we start, for example. Watching the cost. That was 1,382 billion. At a rate of 1, 1 billion and 382 million, the cost of prior distribution to the public was at hand. The cost is now 700 million. We have become so reality here in the conference hall that when we talk about these numbers, we need to put them in some context. It's not just talking on paper. That's a lot of money. At the same time, there is a request for a new cancer ward at the Land Hospital, cost 1,200 million, 1 billion, and 200 billion. K. All the government has to offer is 800 million. The cancer club was going to set 400 million in, and it's been waiting for a year. The Society cannot get an answer because the state claims to be unable to afford it or something. But 700 million, no problem. We're selling banks, 700 million, 70 million is too much, too much to sell on an empty object, 7 million even too much. And we've heard of those who're getting this thing or supposed to get this money--that it slipped through their pockets and they bought it. Did they use that money? Are they investing for nearly 2 billion of our bank's sales and making what? 200 million. K. No risk. The government paid. These are questions we need to ask, and we need answers. We know that at the same time, 60 percent of the bank has been sold at 108 billion. That's what it said. But look at profit, at 23 billion, and at what, 30 billion? They say we have to sell the bank, it's such a risk. Banking has become such a risk. The risk is not that the State has a bank. The risk is that the state is selling the bank back to the same stakes that were here on the bank crash. There's the risk. There's no competition. It's definitely a bank thing. The bank's only got its own price file. There's no competition between the banks. If we look at these banks' profits, it's a complete giganta. If we take the Lands Bank, we have no small profits at the Bank last year, too. The banks are shoveling money for the state funds we can use in a good cause. Of the 23 billion profits, 60% of these have already been identified in the pockets of others other than the State. If we take these 60% and wander out: it's 123/43 billion for 10 years, the same amount we've come for 10 years, and we've got 130 billion, but we already got 108, which means we should get the bank too. We have everything. If we owned the bank, the state would be receiving in ten years 230 billion with the same benefit. There's a lot to do for it. At the same time we're talking about 700 million, 2 billion at the expense, hundreds of billions, how is society? Food prices are rising. Current year, dairy products and meat have increased much more than exported products. There are a lot of increase in groceries, and in the past six months, e.g. meat increased by 7.6%. But the people out there who are poor and have nearly 6,000 children, it was reported at a conference that so many children lived with poverty -- what gave these people? They don't even get a raise. The government was extremely generous with that, or 3.6% plus 1%, went to 4.6% in 6.2% of inflation. These people need to tighten their belts. At the same time, we say, " Let's sell a bank to my friends. ' It's okay. The banks first, the profit men first, the people last. It's like before, there's lawlessness and all this nonsense. As I spoke in my speech earlier today, it is quite remarkable to listen to the presentation of this government because you somehow got the feeling that you should get to sell this golden goose that is giving really well. We need that money. We are also called earmarks of this money, since there is always talk that there is no money to help those who are poor out of poverty. It costs too much, says Bjarni, and he asserted at his time that it took far too much of a person's requirement that 350,000 taxes and inaccessible efforts in this country were minimal. That won't cost much. There is no cost. There are people behind these things, people who need these things and have a right to them. We can see that in all the numbers we have here. The money's ready. They just don't move to the right place. The government's priorities are totally out of order. She says, " Buy those who buy Iceland Bankers, sell those who sell wills Iceland banks. " The government works while ensuring that friends, relatives, and bankers can be included. The people's parties were originally completely against selling the bank because we're not ready, that's too short from collapse. This was made clear, which is an amazing arrogance that the minister of finance showed in his discussion today when he asserted - and what may also have struck me was that he and Davíð had agreed that those who had lost their homes had been helped. It's just wrong. I know a lot of people who lost their homes. These people are renting, paying rent. Some fled the country, but some were unable to cope, and the consequences were disastrous for them and their families. We have a duty to settle this matter. We were to study the case in a long time ago, analyze what happened to those assets, who obtained those assets, and who fixed them up so that people in this case would get real benefits. It could survive the checkout market, or it could simply get back home, those who had to leave the country at that time. I was out in the East on the whole bank crash, and all of us protest, and we know exactly how things were done. It was 10,000,15,000 homes, and there were tens of thousands of children underneath. No one has thought about the consequences and nothing has been done to find out what the consequences were for families. Has anyone seen any reports on this? Has anyone seen any study reports or assessments of what happened to the people? The result? No, we're just gonna sell the bank again, we're gonna play the same game. As I've said, while the state of the bank, there's nothing serious going on. But as soon as we start giving the vultures their banks back, I say, "Guð help us. " We know from the collapse of the bank that when those who get into it, former bankers, and others, when they buy, when they gain the bank, they'll die.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u12	President. I come up here to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his speech. He discussed the sum, the approval, the 700 million that those who received the privilege of selling our things, our property. I'd like to come up here and tell you this morning at a meeting of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, we were discussing a report on the National Relations Research of Mental Health in Iceland and reviewing expenses. for her and for that vital ministry. That's 696 million. K., which is the total cost paid by the State for a second degree of mental - health care in 2021. It's the contracts that Iceland's Medical Insurance deals with the independent health professions, psychologists, psychiatrists and others. I specifically asked about it because it's sometimes that when you have such an intimate comparison, you don't want to believe your own eyes. However, the sales of government property in Iceland's bank received more money for this trade, perhaps for days of work, than the government charged to purchase essential mental health care from independent health professionals in 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator before the answer. I completely agree. We can watch a story that was now the last one to come to the news class of SpV, that an individual, an older citizen in a wheelchair, is in a hurry to move ashore. And what will the individual do? He's going to go to a protest drive to Reykjavík because he thinks it's unfair. He's torn away from his family and moved abroad. You might wonder: " How many people are in this situation? There are 200 people under 67 in a nursing home, cripples, forced. And why would that be? Yes, the excuse must always be the same: There is no money to build a nursing home. At the same time, we also disagree with e.g. physical therapist. A person who now goes to physical therapist has to pay $1,500 and something extra for every hour. A lot of people can't afford to pay ten o'clock and a half thousand. It's an extra month. But what does the government say? We only have free medical care. We're always turning down, but they're just moving things around. It only cost 500 bucks. to the health care unit when they dropped it to zero, costing 1,500 bucks. ... fora physical therapist, three times more. There's a transfer like this. At the same time, of course, the government is not busy solving these problems. No, she's busy selling banks and paying $700 million for some people, paid $1,300 million, $2 billion in favor of selling something that everyone wants to buy. How in the world is it that people are being paid so much money to sell what everyone wants to buy?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u14	Madam President. In reality, it sucks to face the times of money and when it does not eventually exist because it is a political decision to protect one another's funds and how we care for sheep, whether it's health or welfare or anything else. Of course, all of us in this hall know that the health system has been funded, has been for decades if not for decades, and when, as I did this morning, this figure was faced by 696 million, compared to 700 million, somehow an immoral walk. I'm just gonna say it. I think it's immoral, Madam President. I think it's immoral that 700 million people can be paid. K. For selling the government's property at a bank - yes, some job, I'm not going to belittle it - compared to the fact that governments are not negotiating with health professionals who provide the necessary services, whether they are physical therapists, psychologists, psychiatrists, or others. Remembering that the government's end would squeeze out with a total of 150 million deaths. K. For Christmas breaks in contracts with psychologists, let's keep this in mind, Madam President, when we compare the amount and the state fees and what they're going to wear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I couldn't agree more deeply with her. We must also watch this pay-off, how is it found? What were these men doing? It appears that the main spray has been through these traders as the information was presented. What did they need to do? Yes, it was found that they picked up the phone and called some well - chosen acquaintances, including former bankers. Of course, it's an expensive judgment. 700 million just for this 22% who was now selling and more than 1.3 billion for what was previously sold, 2 billion. That's 2,000 million. We're talking about how a fraction of this amount could be carved out to pay $25,000. It's tax-and-in-law Christmas for those who didn't have food. I'm just saying, if we had the bank and got 23 billion a year's profit and shared it, less than 2 billion a month, what could we do about it? Yeah, give me 50,000 bucks. tax and inadequacy each month. Imagine how mad they would be for the people out there who don't have food for a week or two in the month, let alone now when there's a week left of the month. But then the secretary of finance says: "It costs so much that there is no money for this. Hypocrite.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u16	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech and thanking that we are here discussing a basic political point. I respect the fact that a group of people come up here and say, "You're not supposed to sell the banks. I'm good. It's just a clear course. On the other hand, I disagree completely with wearing it for the public that the money paid in recent years is something to be expected from a government fund. That is most ignorant, for we know exactly what has produced these large amounts of money through banks. It is not a credit card transfer or an overlay or a public loan in the country. It's mainly a reassessment of the assets in there. I'll think about it. A senator knows this very well and that most of those who know something about banks would point out that this cannot be expected for a long time. On the other hand, I think it is also important to step in on it as well. A senator here speaks of, i.e. the group that was bent on her feet stands in the community. I can honestly agree with why. A senator says that it needs to be done better. What sums are spent each year on interest payments? Some 6◯7% of our total cost goes to paying interest on loans. The fact that we have now sold a share in the bank, taken in over 100 billion to reduce the debt burden, still have much of the bank, must be just what is best for the bank. My question to why. The senator is eight o'clock. A senator may not agree that the payments that have come out of the bank last year cannot provide any precedent for what will come in the coming years?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I realize that no one knows the future, but we also don't know what happens if we sell. We have experience in selling banks, and how did that turn out? The bank barn. When mistaken individuals accepted those banks and began acting like baboons, and I don't know what, thinking that they could buy the world in a minute and that they were geniuses in finance. Who would sit and bleed? The public in Iceland. While we haven't fixed it yet, we're not ready to discuss a bank sale. We shouldn't even be discussing the bank sales today because it's the least - I don't know which way. A senator agrees with me - but it's the least of us to settle the old bank crash, to settle with the families who lost their homes in their time, to have their homes torn off, and to carry them out with the police force. I saw that, only with police authority, the home taken from the subject, children crying, it's been made up, has it been discussed? With the help of the individuals affected without cause - because some were not harmed, some were allowed to get their loans down, so to speak. We're seeing them come now and buy in this bank, individuals who played a major part in the collapse. While these things are not made up, we're not supposed to sell banks, and I don't believe what. A senator agrees with me in that we should finish things and put them in a way that allows us to be at peace with society. 83% of the nation is opposed to this. And why would that be?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator answers, and he can tell me that I am a firm advocate of releasing the huge financial resources that the state has in the banks, and that it is about reducing the debt of the state so that we have increased the funds we have to put on the decent, valid tasks that I think we could get together about, me and the other. Senator. I've got to get less of that. It belongs to a senator, and I think he knows it as well, that from the collapse of the bank, which he mentioned, we've been through this council on a scale of 30 legal bills that have all gone on improving the order of banking in Iceland. The rules are as strict as they occur in the European Economic Areas, and we have even gone further to ensure ourselves in this country with this small currency. To say that the situation today is the same as it was back when the banks were private is, of course, not true. The other thing I wanted to ask you. A senator in the middle, because a senator from the Gangway people, huh? paritaprevir Loved Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, spoke of the importance of separating investments and private banking and even of something called a community bank. I find this overwhelmingly interesting to be the subject of conversation. I don't agree with this. I don't agree with that. A senator was arguing that we should not sell the banks because they had a lot of money, but he rightly admits that we cannot count on the same money that has been paid in recent years. In fact, how can we give evidence that it is wise for the State to take the money that the state truly has in the banks and, for example, now that it is in the bank? what remains in Iceland banks, and is of significant value, changing it from something that doesn't bring money into the bank of state, such as a bank bank of society? In what way, then, are we keeping Kingdom funds and property in place?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. You see, this is also one of the things we should do, separating money from business companies. [[Up front.]] Then we'll take our chances and take her somewhere else. Then the risk is not in the public. I heard today that there are about 50 million people in Germany at a community bank and that this community bank had been active since 1800 or 1700 and something. What does that tell us? What's the social security number at the last bank in Iceland? [[Up front.]] This should also tell us that we are not ready to sell the banks. We haven't renovated the old bank crash yet. We haven't decided whether to separate financial matters from this. We can talk about community banks, and, of course, our savings were at a certain point when banks of society were at their time. We know what happened to them. It was undermined as soon as they can say, these so - called investors, or I don't know what to call these people who sailed the banks on the beach, as soon as they get into the banks and know that somewhere there's money without a shepherd, as the late Pétur Blöndal called it. It was in several places in the savings, in insurance companies, and in reforms, and it was the front bone. We also know what happened, e.g. Sóveur, who disappeared to Tortola, Cayman, ended up in a luxury apartment in China, and then a bet at the pool on Elfune. There's a lot to be afraid of. But I think that's exactly what we need to do before we sell the banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u20	Madam President. I have repeatedly criticized how this government, and in fact, the last governments before, has been able to achieve the privatization of banks from the time the hedge fund was given back to Adoni banks to this day. This government and previous governments have failed to respond to this criticism, but now it has come to the point of criticism of the latest phase of all this process that the government, according to tradition, now became clear today that the government was not really the government but some Ministers, decided that it had not worked better than that it was a reason to bring down the bank administration, a few days after the same Ministers expressed great joy with results. It has been repeatedly pointed out here today and indeed the previous days that this has been announced as the plans of the Iceland government, but councilmen were unable to explain today why a decision presented by the Government Council as a government decision had not been introduced to the government, which, of course, is a very special matter and raises questions about Article 17. the constitution and the example that have resulted in its interpretation. There is also reason to look at the European Council of Government because it covers this in a bit more detail. I'm gonna let myself grab down here to 6. in III. The section of their law, of the government and of the coordination between Ministers, by permission of the President: A meeting for the following matters should be conducted by the government: 1st Second word in law, i.e. legislatures that the Ministers intend to submit to the Council as primecasts, and other issues to address the President of Iceland to confirm, including: Suggestions to the council smell. 2. It's important to be in charge. Important administrative issues include e.g. Regulations and declarations that are considered to include important policies or focus changes or if it is found that a Regulation or declaration can interfere with financial spending beyond financial resources or economics in general. Important administrative issues are also included. Information on a meeting that Ministers have on important issues with partners from the management system or outside...-◯ As a result, it is clear that considering this article, it should have been discussed at a government meeting before it was announced that the government had made that decision. It is pointedly noted that the same applies to other matters the Ministers would like to set up there. It continues to be necessary for a special memo, and if a government approval is required, it should be made up in a clear wording motion. None of this was done. In the 9th. it is stated that although a minister has taken a case on the Minister's Committee, he is not acquitted the obligation to plead a case in the government. In fact, the matter was not even addressed to the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs but in some way agreed between, apparently only three ministers. That's when we get to the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance, pointing out that the government is not a multi-organized government and the Supreme Court. The prime minister points to the highest power. The minister of finance came to the decision because the matter is subject to him. That'll do it. This raises questions about how this decision was made on the part of this minister, not at a government meeting, obviously. But the highest. The secretary of finance who joined the group was allowed to arrive at the decision. Maybe we'll get some. Better explanation for tomorrow's discussion. It is also happening after the day that what seems to happen after the bank administration is completely unclear. Despite all that talk about the long-hand policy I'm hearing. The managers are still proud to have maintained by being with the Bank County, we have no idea how this arm length will be protected in the arrangement under which it will take place, for the arrangement to take over is not known. The government, I'm sorry, Madam President, these three Ministers decide to send out an announcement that the Bank Office will be suspended without apparently having discussed what should be taking place in return. They added that it has become clear that further sales will not be for the government of Iceland, let alone in the National Bank, and then not directly indicate that men are still proud of how they have worked. However, the independence party's policy makes it clear that there is a private advantage of the banks. It concludes with the conclusion of the last meeting of the category: The execution of banks has to change. A top-level National Conference claims that there is no need for the government's ownership of financial contributions. The state sells its property in the banks. Now that there is another sound in the eraser that appears to be, there is uncertainty about how to handle the remaining item. It's been interesting to hear government officials and the highest. Minister repeatedly boasts or view it as the most positive thing in this situation, though, what the State still has in Iceland. It's got the highest. A minister of finance and others were saying that he should be happy that the state has 42.5% of this valuable bank as a person rejoices that the other one has been sold. The conclusion on how this was carried out is unclear, but it has also raised a great deal of questions about the process itself. Madam President. I see I have an even shorter time than I assumed. I thought I had 15 minutes, so I can't go over except a fraction of this, but I think there's still reason to use a little time to recall how the media reported this phase. Here I quote the Morning newspaper, which last March 22th: ▪ As previously reported, the Bank Board set up a fairly unexpected trade process in at least 20% of the state's share in Iceland banking with an proposal for domestic and foreign investors, i.e. professional investments and established data providers, after post-marketing closure today. At dinnertime, Iceland's Bank issued a announcement showing that the publishers of the auction had received subscriptions for 400 million, which is defined as the minimum size of the sales process and is about 20% share in the bank... In other words, something unexpected happened, according to the Morning Press. When this was reported after the end of the market and on the same night, at dinnertime, it was announced that this 400 billion marks have been reached. It raises questions about how this was chosen. V.E.G. The secretary of finance earlier said it was very simple, if they had met the conditions, they would have been allowed to offer. However, it is not clear whether all who met those requirements were aware of this during those hours that had passed before everything was arranged. Madam President. I had a lot of other things I'd like to go over here, but it's probably gonna be tomorrow, because this discussion will continue, and it's a good thing to get the highest opinion. Prime Minister on. Finally, though, I want to mention one more factor, and that is about the cost of sales, the fee. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has criticized me that it was a bit high, likely 721 million, if I recall correctly, but what was the last approval in the first phase? More than 1,700 billion were not discussed. It was Covid time. But now the government is no longer under the cover of Covid, and it is time for her to render an account.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u21	A respectable president. I thank those who have spoken to us today. This has been an interesting discussion. What a pleasure it would be if those with the highest authority were to observe this and to take aboard the indications that will no doubt be beneficial and beneficial, many of them! Banks are an important part of every community, and that's a dangerous business that has, unfortunately, been badly affected more than once in Iceland, both by the government, as shown by the Bank of the Lands Bank of the past in ◯nineties, and as this blessed privatization has gone on. A man thought that after the collapse there would be a new cow, a new custom, there would be some kind of tact and ethic in behalf of his customers. But I don't think those expectations really worked out. We've been tracking the services further increase as the service decreases, i.e. will be more automatic and more online, and there's a lot of effort to access and collect to clients themselves if they get something wrong, after the crash, there's a much larger thumb. It takes more to cover a loan for a roof over your head. That's why I'm asking. A senator who gave his lecture before each Icelandic public, who needs some kind of loan or bank work, which is not merely profitable by the profit expectation of the past few years, should not deserve it in view of the strict use of one and a half banks after obtaining one community bank, where the mortgages are not necessarily insured, with highest prices and belts, and shoulder ties are on the side of the bank. [[The president calls.]] The bet may be sufficient. We get one community bank out of this for those who can afford such services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u22	Madam President. To begin with, I have never felt that the state should have these banks forever, even though I have criticized them in the past in what way it was under their privatization so far. But that's exactly what it's all about, the way it's been used, and what kind of financial systems people want to build up, what kind of financial system the government wants to establish here in the country, because it was and in some respects still is a unique opportunity to build up a more reasonable, more efficient and better financial system for the entire population in the country and for the community. We invented it for the 2017 election, the Central Party, in what way this could be done. Set an overall policy on how to change the financial system, and that was exactly what the Lands Bank was doing -- well, I don't know if I should use the word "social bank," I don't know if I am. A senator has just the same understanding of that word, but at least A bank with a role for society, to promote more practical, more reasonable and better interests for the general population. Other banks were to receive other roles, or they were to be sold in a way that was outlined, including we recommended them, and before the last election that the entire population could share equally with the bank of the state. In other words, there would be no questions about whether anyone had been allowed to sell or not. Each Iceland simply received a direct share in the form of a stock that could be decided to sell later or continue and have a direct access to the financial system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u23	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator resists. I'm raised in the cooperative movement, as some know. I've always believed in that form of socializing. I think it's a good thing to work in such an environment. And what men are trying to find a name for here, why don't we just call it a collaborating bank? A co-work bank that might have a backside, let's say, a whole or half of a bank already owned by all of us in order to finance the dwellings of ordinary people, and since the fruit requirement would not be as dramatic as it is at private banks or banks in private, where the shareholders would like the highest possible yield. Let's just give ourselves a natural healthy yield, and this would be a bank, which invests in people's and medium-sized businesses, in a manner similar to the savings fund or the Team at its time. Of course, banking is a real challenge for anyone who accepts it. I think those of us who suddenly received double the amount we borrowed after the crash -- of course, it was a gangshing and scary, but somehow I feel that the average public should get one of these banks out for themselves. I think we should keep that requirement for stress. It would be a healthy deposit for ordinary people, people who are not in investments, and who don't know how to deal with these stock trades, only do their normal jobs, but have to pay twice as much money as they did but were founded on mortgages. We may begin to pursue a better approach, a better practice, a better morals in this kind of service as a second in Iceland, so we'll have something to do with it at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u24	Madam President. I don't know if we can use the name a collaborator because it's been used before I realize what it is. A senator is going to live up to the goals he describes. However, it should be kept in mind that bank activity differs in many ways from that of an enterprise's private business. Since banks are actually allowed to print money, it is only natural that governments do more for them and other demands than those of other companies on their own. It is very difficult, however, to start a bank. There have been experiments here in recent years starting a new bank with some such form of form, such as cognition. A senator refers to, but this is for many reasons difficult. However, it was here, as I mentioned earlier, and is in some respects still quite unique, which did not occur spontaneously. It came about after years of strokes and actions that had never been performed before, using techniques that have not been used elsewhere, but it showed that the State was in charge of public authority in all the big banks. It was an opportunity for the ruling government to reorganize the system. This opportunity has not been new, and therefore it has caused one to resent seeing that this course is still being carried on without apparent attempting to use it at the same time to create a better financial system and a bank that we can call a partnership bank or a community bank or whatever else, but at least a bank whose job it is to make the system better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u25	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and listened to him speaking on this question earlier today, about what will happen when the government, or the three members of the government that sent out the press release, has dropped a government agency of some 400 billion dollars. I think it's very interesting to hear what's going on. Jehovah's Witnesses are now serving as members of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses, 6 / 15 But when you look at it, the list shows that the two things that call for it to be, that will be, that holds government meetings, are new in law on the other hand, and important matters of government, both applicable. So this is in my mind a clear violation of these laws. This should have been a government meeting because it has to be put in place to put this institution down, which I think must lead to the nature of it that when we are discussing an institution that holds 400 billion dollars. is an important matter of government. But I'd like to ask. A senator what will take over. Given the natural progress of the bill, you might expect it to be first of all next year that this change would take place. You wonder, " What does the government provide in this regard? ' Is the government and director, with all the distrust we see, to sit in until then? You may be hiding in this requirement on the basis of the highest scale. A minister says that these parties will resign, and new ones will be appointed until something begins to draw up what will be? Can a declaration of distrust be made stronger than we can see in this situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u26	Madam President. This excellent question underscores the kind of flumbrush that all of this has been. Obviously, this decision is not taken on the basis of a government discussion, much less by members of the members of the board, since it may not be much of a tradition for this administration to discuss with them until things have become so. They have not even considered how this intervening situation would be. They may not have known what to do. I think that's true, as a matter of fact. A senator says that it will never be completed until one day next year. Inevitably this will create uncertainty, and, of course, it must be kind of hopeless position for employees and bank administration to have this over the year, to report that the function will be submitted, to have no authority to carry out its role, to have received confirmation that there will be no further sales on the part of the State, probably not during this ideal period of at least - What position is the bank management put in the meantime? In a bad position. It's all right. A senator will draw this out. At the same time, this is another indication that this decision was made primarily, whether by texting or by phone about Easter, in order to try to throw something forward, to address the discussion, rather than as part of some plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u27	Madam President. Yes, I couldn't agree, and I think anyone who looks at the events cold and the timeline will see it. It is obvious that after many days of silence on the part of government leaders, all of them somehow disappeared at the same place on Easter holiday and were all outside the service area, this announcement was made that the three officers made a decision to shut down the Bank County. Also, I feel like there's this extra-wisty operation in the administration home; it's not him, it's not the highest. Secretary of finance, who is responsible for the other. And that's Bank Management. I have also wondered, in the light of the verbal exchange that the nation witnessed between government leaders, these words, the highest. The secretary of business that she had put up with some kind of caution on the Ministry on Economic Affairs, whether this text exchange, or what it was, asked the three presidents that this would be the fate of the Bank Office, not between the three Ministers who had taken over the bank sale, i.e. Prime Minister, secretary of finance, and secretary of business. All of a sudden, the secretary of the business was no longer part of the conversation, because it has become the officers who make that decision. Whether it's connected, I don't know. But I sincerely agree with this assessment. Of course, a senator could see that this was a decision taken in some manner of death, probably with the result that the government violated this law on the Council of Government, on how to make decisions like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u28	Madam President. V.E.G. The minister of culture and trade has now repeatedly expressed itself on bank matters and, apparently, the government's policy to form a threat of reimburse bank tax right after the highest level. The minister of finance had dropped that tax, so the minister stepped forward and said it was not possible. And now, last with his declarations of warning at a hearing in the Minister's Committee as the Supreme Minister. In fact, the prime minister responded by pointing out that it had not been booked. I noticed why. A senator presented a very interesting inquiry for a written answer today for the reasons of the Supreme Court. A minister would have decided not to heed any possible warnings. The Minister of Culture, and the best of proposals, rather. Secretary of finance. In fact, I think it would be most desirable for us to have the answers to that good question as early as tomorrow from the highest level. Prior to waiting for a few months for an answer to a written inquiry that is often very late as we know, prime minister will be able to explain the nature of this procedure. There's still a lot going around. Here, we heard what. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson explains that he had no idea of who to be the role of my investors in this campaign. [[The president calls.]] He just seemed to rely on what appeared in the news about it. Clearly, then, there are many members of the board who are in complete uncertainty about this, Madam President. [[The president calls.]] But I hope we have more answers tomorrow, if not tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u29	A respectable president. One of the first executives of the International Economic Association, Marinó G. Njálsson, recently wondered, " How badly has an invitation to the Bank of Iceland's Banks been made? ' A significant portion of buyers would have no interest in staying in the bank for more than a few days. A significant portion of buyers could not be considered suitable investors. A significant portion of buyers could not be considered professional investors. A significant portion of buyers would not have the financial strength to keep the letters for a few days. Among the buyers, there are persons who are controversial and whose back is judged by economic violations. A significant portion of buyers would have participated in their last tenders and would have sold their letters within a few weeks. Salaries and sales agents were among the buyers. A small demand would be for the letters, and it would have been difficult to get rid of them at market prices. The campaign's rules would have been blurred, but they were tried. The choice of participants was random, smelling from corruption. A great dissatisfaction would develop in society through the exporting process. Much of the buyers have been small investors, excessive sales fees, and lack of business experience by buyers or ability to be an active bank owners. When this fine list is compared to the results of the invitation, it is evident that this invitation was just extremely successful in being badly successful. It could not have been worse, except for one point: That was much more than a request. And to ensure the equality of needy buyers, some buyers were not allowed to buy market prices despite making such an offer. It is such an amazing move that it is difficult to imagine that worse could have been done. Someone has to answer for that. It is clear that the Bank Office shows incompetent inadequacies, not to speak more strongly, and that I believe it will be laid down in such a way that there is no danger that it will ever go back. Nevertheless, it is clear that the responsibility lies with the minister of finance or even with the whole government. Neither the government nor the secretary of finance can contradict it. In unsubstantiated inquiry earlier today, I came across the rock cave that seems to surround all those who are involved in financial decisions in Iceland, whether in the government or in the Ministry of finance that only seems to listen to the market's viewpoint and capital owners on the importance of personal prostitution and anything else that involves business in a financial market. Thus, the MNU's stakeholders, the MNU, seem to have directed a line into the Ministry of Economic Affairs while the Internet's Economic Affairs organization, which is the sole member of the consumer rights of financial markets and banking transactions, does not have this access, and in general it is of little or no concern to their viewpoints. There are over 80% of the population against the government's sale of its property in banks. Individual representatives are to respect the will of the people in which there seems to be no doubt. In an open letter to the financial and economic secretary, which was published on January 22th of last year by the National Aggressory Association, the question was, Why sell it now or head over? In fact, this question has never really been answered, and there are many reasons and goals with ideas about selling property items from the state of Iceland or other published banks, do not agree with further examination. Let's go over it. 1st It's not the State's job to run banks. This is not evidence but a claim based on the ideologies that anything that might be private should be. Everyone is free to have such a outlook, but those who accept it have never reasoned why it is so much worse that the State has a bank that serves society. 2. The government's risk of banking has to be reduced. Admittedly, the risk of banking needs to be limited as much as possible. However, there is no evidence that this business is better off in the hands of the private sector. The Kingdom has never suffered as much damage to banking as since a short period of unremarkable personal success at the beginning of this century, which ended with the third major failure of human history in the autumn of 2008. On the other hand, despite the possession of the State on two of the three banks, the bank has become flourishing. Therefore, if the learning of history is combined, it is clear that the bank system's personal business is far more risky for the State than any other choice of holding on banks. 3. Enforced financial market competition. The experience of the privateisation of Aion Bank showed that competition is by no means a law of personal interest. Iceland Bank environment is not a competitive environment but a competitive environment, as the Contestance Commission has repeatedly pointed out in its reports. Even it might be reasoned that in the sense of competition, a bank market is a feature of silent consultation. The design of ownership doesn't change much or nothing about that reality. 4. It is important to distribute possession. I think it may be said that this has not been achieved. And it should not be forgotten that no matter how personal development is left behind, the government is entirely out of the hands of the people to see whether possession will continue to be spread or collected on the hands of few, as we have seen. Thus, such personalization is no guarantee of long - term permanent distribution of ownership or owners. 5. The government needs money. The government has long since recovered all that it put in the establishment of new banks, and it can be shown that the use of its present holdings can be considerably higher than one - trade profits by selling them now. Finally, this open letter by permission of the President's Office of Economic Affairs to Ministers of Economic Affairs stated: Although a rule has been revised, in addition to the above, it does not matter because it is not a danger either when the rules are ignored, no matter how good they are. There is no evidence that personalization will change this, for corruption is not an issue of ownership. I would say that the truth of these words has been shown in recent sales of the State in Iceland Bank, which repeatedly claimed to be so good that no one needs to worry about it. On page 24 of the report on the bottom line. A financial minister for the continuation of government sales at Iceland Bank is defined as requiring investors who are considered qualified to have an active possession share in the bank. Since this was the only place a qualified investor is set, it is not unusual to consider it to be the qualified investors whom the Bank Management Board wanted at the March 22. The evaluation will now be based on all of the following: the reputation of someone who intends to gain a bank or to add his share in a bank, a reputation, and the experience of someone intending to conduct a bank, the financial health of the one to be assured, including the one in charge of the bank. taking into account the activity of the bank, that the possession of a conflict does not control, and that holding does not result in financial evasion or the financing of terrorism. First of all, no public investors meet these requirements. Second, these conditions are difficult for individuals associated with the collapse of the 2008 financial system. Third, these conditions are excluded from investors who are buying percentage fractions. Finally, I think it's true that at least For this service to financial resources, 10,000 homes were treated in forced halls, and five thousand others went to some form of payoff agreements at the bank and lost their homes because of them. Then there are the countless thousand who were able to keep their homes by making short contracts with the bank that left them in poverty and in want. No matter what the minister of finance says, nothing has been made up of these people who were actually offered for the benefits we see today. It is on the shoulders of these people that huge profits from collapse lie ahead. It is therefore not only absurd but quite presumptuous to claim that the government has obtained Iceland banking without charge. On the contrary, the property of the State in banks was expensively purchased at the expense of their victims after the collapse. The high price of banks is not due to financial, bank, or political genius, since it is not easy to make money when you have a license on the families of the country and can often illegally and always under the influence of self - discipline to take on family living so that they will never be reformed. I give myself a spin for these 15,000 families, since they have had to endure much, and most important of all, those in charge are turning the knife into their wounds by denying what they went through. Now we have to do better. Now we have to learn from this, and now we have to stop this from ever happening again, and that is not what we do with hideouts, but we have to face what happened and take responsibility for it. Today, we must have an independent study report, which transcends any doubt, and there is nothing willing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u30	Madam President. We'll discuss a verbal report at the highest level. The secretary of finance moved earlier today, to trade for the government in Iceland Bank. It is always delicate and difficult to deal with the sale of social possessions. That is why it is important that trust in such a trade process. It is clear that there has been a broken trust, otherwise we wouldn't be here to discuss this. To me, and to us at the left, a green supply, it is impossible but a review of the procedure of this sale. One of the things I think we need to examine is transparency and information. In fact, the legitimate criticism that was immediately obtained when the list of buyers was not to be published has been addressed. It has now been published that the government's initiatives, and rightly so, end up with the public the right to have such information when it comes to selling state owners. However, because transparency and information are important to me, it is important that I continue to examine it and review it. We're here at the Council to keep it in a special place and to look for information. I also believe that it is important to be consulted by the question of how healthy business practices have been met. There's a lot of things I think orcs double and the highest. The secretary of finance also came into it in his history here today, e.g. Part of the sales consultants in this process. This is the late bank to look at, and I think it's very important to get the answers and review if the right thing has been done. The same is true of questions about how all participants in these purchases were suitable. I don't know, I'm not an expert on these matters, but I think it's important to be specifically reviewed and that we'll discuss it when the Secret Bank is due. The SEC of the Federal Bank and National Reconclusions, which are completely independent of their work, have already begun an analysis of the case, and I think it is important that this investigation be carried out with these partners, but the results are to be in fact in June. I think it's extremely important that we get that results before we go home. After this investigation, it will be possible to determine whether or not a special research committee should be included in order to further clarify this information in case of an emergency. I hope that the UNECE investigation and National Reexamination will be sufficient, but I'm not going to give in advance what comes out of that work. I've previously said from this platform that I believe it is important that if we feel that there are other questions that will not be answered. Finally, I'd like to say that I like what has been said about the government's decision to suggest at the General Assembly that the U.S. It has to do with what I said here in the beginning that it is always delicate and difficult to sell social possessions. The system that we have now, under the laws of sales management of the government's assets in financial institutions and with the Bank County, was established by the bitter and evil experiences that we have been burned from as a nation. I was optimistic and hopeful that we now have a system that would help us in the way of selling government owners. But there has been strong evidence of the perspiration of that system, not to mention the dissatisfaction of the public by the way it worked, that I like this proposal. I think it is very important that this should be discussed carefully here at the Council, for it is us who bear the political responsibility for the handling of the belongings of the State. All of this, I said, I expect the tests that are now being carried out in this process, and I'm not going to give up on the results. I know what questions I have, and I've brought them up here. I believe that the monarchy is the time for us to continue to deal with this situation. This is one of the things the social elected representatives are supposed to do for the good of their people, for these matters need to be in order.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u31	President. Hv. One senator said that she was hoping that we would have a good system to do sales on banks. When I look at the arrangement, twice the administrative system, on the other hand, what is in the hands of the Bank and the other one in the hands of the Minister, with the reviews of the Federal Bank and the Council, I see nothing really wrong with the process as it is, but I see the natural possibility that people can screw it up; that people, persons, and players, will not follow the procedure, and will not act out the unique aspects of every step. It's just a human error. That doesn't mean it's broken. I wonder why, if the system which is such a good thing, should change it. Or is it really the process that's bad?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u32	Madam President. I believe that the process that has been written into the law is at least not beyond doubt that it is a good enough system. I think it's a better system than it used to be. The purpose was to remove decisions from the politicians, and I think that's a good price and it's important. But I think that the sewing of this work is not done, how it is done, and all the talking. That's what we've started. But if everything in this process is ruined or everything has to be changed, I don't really think. But it needs to be reviewed and examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u33	President. How does that make sense? The senator then referred to the sale of the financial property of the State: The ensuing or registration of messages at a stock exchange is a process that differs from the standard offer. As an example, there is no assessment of extraordinary offers or sort of negotiations with individual buyers when it comes to the general invitation or registration of letters. As I understand this, a special proposal has to be taken into consideration when it comes to the traditional proposal, exactly as it was in the second sales of Iceland Bank. This sentence is very directed to the minister. I wonder what. A senator understands that it is a minister of Private and personally who makes his red overlaying pen over it or if it is not exactly the government of a minister to whom the minister is responsible, of course, to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u34	Madam President. I think it's like a Minister himself shouldn't go over every offer that comes in. It was the very purpose of the law and of the Bank Office to remove the politician from making decisions about individual persons who are buying part of the State's property. I can't understand it any other way than so it shouldn't be the Minister who's looking at it. He is not to be in a position to choose which ones are buying, but he must be an example of how we want these things to be. We don't want the minister to have his fingers in each of his bids, he shouldn't be doing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u35	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk that was given earlier. I just wanted to say something I've mentioned before. I just think it's a little bit of a saying that's going on. It is stated here in each speech after another, and especially now it seems to members of the WG, that it is considered a huge amount of money that the government has taken that way, secretary of finance, to publish a list entirely to microns of those who bought at the bank. I just want to shoot a little question in here: Shouldn't we go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on on and on and on and on on and on and on and on on on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on It should not be necessary to be such an arrangement that later the decision to publish a list is somehow to be expedient. Of course, it was meant to be. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree with me that this should only take place between the first hour and the last? This is a list you should have.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u36	Madam President. Yes, I spoke of it in my speech that a complete transparency should rule over the process. But it wasn't like that, it wasn't supposed to be published. I think it should have been as soon as I believe the government shouldn't have had to decide to print the list, it should have been published. However, since this was not done, it was very important that the decision to publish the list was made. I don't think people were doing anything special. I think they were just holding the light. It matters. I think that's where I think I'm at. A senator will agree. I think the main thing is that the art was printed and it should always be displayed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I was trying to make this happen: Sure, it's a good idea that the art was published. However, this is not the case, so there is a particular need for dress and grooming, as if it were some virtue. It is of nature that the Ministry of finance could never have made another decision, whether the prime minister had some power in it or not, but then to publish the list. I cut it down, in an interview with the Board of Directors of Bankies, that he was, in effect, a little shocked by the fact that this list was being published. He said something like: " If you're interested in doing something like this, you need to establish special terms about it. We've sold half of Iceland's bank and we've been selling the rest of the rest of the season, we're so far in this process, and we're still cutting bait off as if at some point, if only we had a first priority. The Senator must agree with me that this indicates that there has been a little flube around this sale so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u38	Madam President. It's now often that when things are going right, when they're done, the offenders come to light, sometimes even strengths, but in this case, I'd say fracturers. Therefore, I feel that it is not difficult to stand here and say that we need to review the laws and methods we have put up with selling state owners because it really needs to be done better. It may be nice that I can use the last seconds of this counterweight to say that in our minds in the VG it is not possible to sell more out of this bank until the question has been answered. [[The president calls.]] I believe it is necessary to change the order as foretold to be done within some time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u39	Madam President. There's something wonderful adorable about left greens of all, w-w. Councilmen of that category, seisal alone for taking all responsibility from the Minister to the Bank County. It was very clear by the top of the world. Secretary of finance earlier that he would sign and agree to the sale because he had received some information. No one's talking about his having had to go to unique social security numbers. However, when it became obvious that a closed auction, in which the meaning was to withdraw a number of long - term investors, the names of 200 buyers, would have been a possibility to turn some warning light on a minister and he should have asked further questions about it. It's just a president who's irresponsible from a government ceremony. V.E.G. Of course, the secretary of finance is a link in all this decision - making by signing. [[The president calls.]] He wouldn't be able to sign if he didn't get some minimal information from the Bank County. Right?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u40	Madam President. One of the things being considered today is whether the law has been followed in all this process. I can't point out any examples that I can't see they haven't been followed, but this is one of the points being considered. However, there have been points to a number of aspects of the project that are really challenging. For what information the highest. The minister of finance had or had it, he alone must answer about it, for I have no information about it and I have no knowledge of it but what he has to make up here in this sermon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u41	Madam President. We're in a hurry. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said today that he had received the total amount, the number of the buyers he had received. Should've hit the alarm. I wasn't saying that law was necessarily broken. There is the possibility that he saw the list and knew who was there, and then he is, of course, guilty of patriotism, at least. If he hasn't seen the obvious evidence that was about to take a different course than the one that had been presented here and to him--if he hasn't, if he's signed without asking any questions--then it's a failure. Not right, what. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u42	Madam President. As I said before, I haven't seen anything saying that the law was not followed in this process. I repeat, however, that I think it is extremely important that, as it is now being done, both the Navy bank and the State Reconsistencies go over the whole process. We need to, so we're gonna hit it here one more time, roll with every rock in that process. Of course, we take it to heart and review it, making adjustments in our laws in harmony with what may be presented there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u43	Madam President. In view of their high emphasis, almost from the beginning, I have found it especially interesting to watch members of the council left green, that the result must be that the banking department should be removed. Now, already. A senator is talking about a lack of transparency and a lack of information, which I sincerely agree with, I ask the senator if it is her opinion that there was only a lack of information and that there was no more evidence in the aspect of the case that showed a lack of approval for officials. What about transparency and information from the government itself and the Ministers themselves, e.g. for the purpose of the sale, e.g. communications between prime minister and secretary of business? It has been reported in the media that a minister of business spoke of him having taken some warning in his dealings with the Ministers. Is it not true that the public has the right to give information in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u44	Madam President. V.E.G. Of course, a minister has to answer what she may have said at some meeting that I did not sit on. Yes, I think it's very important to review the procedure at Bank County, that's where I seem to have the big facts. I just have to say, I also find it remarkable how long it has taken for the Banks to answer questions from a financial committee. I think it's all right to go really well into their work. I don't know what's gonna happen. I don't know what's gonna happen. But I believe there's a reason to ask questions. I've cast it out here tonight what's important to me to look at, but then we'll have to see what it is that it is that the Navy and State Accounting puts on and are looking at at their work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u45	Madam President. I think it's part of the problem here, that you somehow feel alone that Congress party VG is interested in the way of informing half the story, looking at the underlings, not the officers. A political decision is made to close an invitation with certain consequences. Then there is political discussions on the Ministry Committee on Economics. Of course, all the details need to be explained, and tools that can do so, such as with a research committee, need to be used. There is a pitfall in standing here talking about the need to improve information, a lack of transparency, refusing all conversation about political responsibility, or trying to inform us about the political reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u46	Madam President. I don't think there's anyone refusing to go over and study this process. V.E.G. The secretary of finance made a suggestion here based on the Commission's proposal. As far as I'm concerned, it's all been from the legal process. But I hope that this is one of the things being considered, and I believe that Government Accounting has the authority to consider that process. Well, I think it's government Accounting, but if it turns out something's missing, we're going to have to do some research. Based on what I've read from the Government Accounting Act, I believe she has real authority to go to an investigation, and that's why I look forward to seeing their findings and hope that they shed a clearer light on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u47	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson spoke a great deal here about the fact that a mud storm had been gathered. Hv. paritaprevir The Sigmar Guðmundsson pointed out the obvious fact that there are government officers who have been raising mudwood by making them shoes, since we had got their banks rice and had been making so much property out of them, almost no matter how much they were treated. However, it is a storm of dirt, and it is revealed by the lack of insight and trust in the public. I'm gonna talk about trust. It's a round and short word, but it's a little bit much. Us politicians are even. Trusted to take public possessions, sometimes selling them for public advantage, planning projects, and so forth. How important it is that we have confidence in our work! All we politicians have is that the public has confidence in us. If that's what we can do, we're on slippery ice. We know well that after a collapse, this trust in the public in politics vanished, and gradually it has been building up again. This government, in its own words, was formed from left to right to build trust, although, in fact, it was primarily a government for station and status for special interests. But that's another story. But with the government's work now, we'll find that this valuable trust of the public, who has been building up in recent years, has been waiting, and we'll see evidence of that in a new Machine probe tonight. Why is that? Yes, it is simply because people are completely offended. People everywhere are talking about this bank sale. People are hurt, and people are shocked. People come to protests, express themselves online, at work places, and wherever they meet. And why are people offended? Yeah, it's because it's familiar with the work. It's familiar with characters and players who do the dishes. They watch the rules of the game in this bank sale, and it reminds us of things that were common ten years ago. They see the property of the common people sold at the hands of their chosen friends. It looks up a close connection between the secretary of finance to the buyers who buy a discount at a closed outlet, and it looks up at the government and the Ministers rushing up to the hands and feet, putting the bank office down when the rage rises in the community when the names appear, the names that were never to be published, when players and characters appear. Then what happened? We first see the government declaring that she is going to take down the Banks County, but at the same time, she is not ready to take the responsibility of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance before the investigation has taken place at some point in the summer. Now it's getting to the highest. Secretary of finance like it should only be seen with all this. There is nothing to increase confidence in the community when ministers speak out and south according to their own government. V.E.G. In an interview on April 19, the prime minister said: "It is our opinion that these recent events have demonstrated that this arrangement requires revision. We want to strengthen the role of the Generals when it comes to making decisions, for the sale of financial assets. That same day, she says in Science that she is thinking that the purchase of the invitation was not a minimal tie - up period. Also, the cost was not set in stocks. But it was at least Their job was to stop it if they thought the Bank Office was in the wrong direction. They didn't. That word is the highest. In view of the highest, the prime minister is unique. In an interview this weekend, the minister of finance said that he was not surprised by the fact that it was anticipated how many small persons immediately sold their letters. But let us remember that this process was decided to take place, and all government personnel have agreed with it. This was directly expected to attract us to powerful long - term investors. The result, however, was that there are many short - term investors. It was a party for the power and public. Not much has been heard from the advance group, except perhaps from the highest level. Tour, cultural, and commercial ministers have reported that she was opposed to the route she had gone. She says in an interview: I did not approve of the methodology that came from the sale of letters in Iceland Bank. The general invitation was not to sell the letters to the selected group of investors. These views I made clearly in the leading of the invitation. The summary, brief summary, has the highest. A prime minister spoke as if she were surprised that the invitation was to go the way it was supposed to, the highest. Business minister has spoken of it as opposed to the methodology chosen but the highest. On the other hand, a minister of finance has said that all of this was as best chosen when the overall picture was examined. He may not have sounded as giddy on April 8, since then he said: "It is quite obvious that this invitation did not go as we would like. They strike at and from the way the winds and debates blow. On April 19, so that I do a little better than this, the government declares that there was an issue of transparency and information, and she planned to put down the Bank hasn't discussed it before. This is evident in the way the public was offended. 83% of the nation claimed to be opposed to this sale. Two days later, the highest appeared. Secretary of the budget for an interview. Then he decided to use other rhythms, using pride, and to answer about his father's purchase: Was he forbidden to buy? As if the matter were about the fact that a father of Ministers cannot be invested. Although the Minister himself does not see how strange and abstract this is, and this close bond is not normal, it would have at least ... tocall a response to the leaders of the two governments. Clearly, everyone is going to lie down on one thing so as to protect themselves from the unscrupulous access of financial ministers to this sale. From the point of view of a conclusion that leads to a general shock to the old - fashioned captivity of those who have the power to go. And we heard some of its manifestations today, both from the highest level. Secretary of finance as well as the Supreme Minister. Prime Minister. I'm running out of time, so I don't get over much more. I'm going to say, though, that this process does not have to be acceptable and far away from what we can accept. I certainly hope that the government will come with us on the way to demand that a committee be formed on the council's behalf. This has not given rise to trust and confidence, despite all the most precious property of politicians, political parties, and the Generals. Without fully revealing the matter, we will not be able to recover it. There is a much greater chance that this will continue to undermine all our jobs, the credibility of the government primarily than the credibility of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u48	President. I wanted to ask you what. A senator only on the NTSB. I was thinking about this earlier. Now, we have an example to show that a government reexamination is looking at a private bank before a collapse and so on. This made it just part of a health test, that there was no particular problem. Then the General Commission identified everything that went wrong, and there was no need for anything if there was anything, things, absolutely a problem. I only scratch in my head and see that now it's a state retrospect saying it's about similar matters, a bank sale. Then I'll see two possibilities. On one hand, the President's Accounting didn't find out anything, that it's just been all right. Then we have the same situation we had last time. A public review simply does not have the tools and tools needed to reach the same conclusion as the committee of the past, and we will not be any closer to whether something went wrong or not if a National Reexamination is not due except to a health certificate. The other is that if a National Review concludes that something was wrong, that kind of thing, and this, we're still in the position of needing a research committee. In both cases, i.e. that the President's Accounting leaves no conclusions that everything's been fine, or that it wasn't all right, then it's necessary to call a research committee together. Why, then, are we not immediately calling a committee of inquiry together?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u49	Madam President. I'm just gonna let myself speak for a few members of the council here because I think I know what this is all about. This is not unknown, and, of course, you've taken advantage of these things yourself when you have to work your own time. It's a Tattoo. They're trying to make time. You're right about what you're doing. A member of the council that when the State Reconservation of Banks back then and issued a proof of health, it was not necessarily because some form of waste was used there, and I have confidence in a State Accounting View of the Work Its best function. But as a government accountant himself said when the Commission report appeared and showed a whole different picture, they said that they did not have enough research clearances to reach the conclusion that eventually published the truth, which was nothing particularly beautiful. I say again, I think a government government in a hospital, a state of crisis, an opposing government is trying to earn time, and I think that the board members, most of them against a better conscience, speak of this going through a state reexamination first, and then we'll take it maybe. A decision to make a closer examination sometime in June to earn a valuable time to calm down the waves of a government home, where everything is angry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u50	President. You see, I think this is a key part of the NTSB. If it's all right, we're not even close. We know this from a previous experience from looking at such things. If the situation is different, and the National Review has access to information that provides us with insight into specific matters that went wrong, however, the conclusion is inevitable that a research committee needs to be assembled. We know that Government Accounting doesn't cover everyone's past experience. No matter what National Review does, no matter what the decision of the State's Reexamination is, the product from the Council must be an investigational committee. It's inevitable. The other thing that is always climbing on here is this: A minister is not to appreciate an extraordinary offer. I'm gonna scratch something in my head over it. Of course, it is not the Minister of Privately and personally that picks up the red overlaying pen and strokes over this offer and the other offer, etc. and writes in the margin for professional reasons. It is a professional government of his ways that, of course, handles the project, a procedure that he is responsible for. As a result, if a minister allows him to do so, he is guilty of certain neglect. That's what the law expects; the Bank Office takes care of the project, gives it to a minister who goes and witnesses that it's all done well, not to his private and personal, but to his government to which he is responsible. I wanted to ask myself that question. A senator will see if we are not witnessing a little bit of the talk from the highest level. A secretary of finance who is always throwing his character into this, as if he should do something private and personal, which is just nonsense. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u51	Madam President. Yes, of course you've heard the highest. Secretary of finance is defending and even now it is. But I have noted that governments of the government have actually gone further in order to defend him and that he simply shouldn't have anything to do with it. But he comes to this, he gets the result on his level with some information that can completely raise questions. I guess the bank agency saw the names and then gives some information to the minister. I'm not saying anything about it to the highest. The secretary of finance is to review every social security number and cover it. But he sees the masses. [[Up front.]] - Yeah. He might ask: " How were sales salesmen involved? Are some of the salesmen doing their own shopping? There are some questions he should ask the Bank Office before signing. I'm old enough to know the time when you signed money, and you checked the minimum background of the people you've been writing on with, even if you've done it at times with a lack of confidence. But here we are talking about a little bit more money than survival from month to month. So I believe that free ministers cannot be taken entirely from this. If his job is nothing more than to write his name, then it better be out and out of it because it doesn't have anything to do with it. [[Up front.]] So he's in the same role as the president of Iceland, and he's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u52	Madam President. I cut by the words of a man. Senator on the importance of trust. After all, trust was the lawyer's answer to the question of how to heal the wound that happened to the financial breakdown. Trust has been like a red thread in our entire legal legislation on finance companies following the collapse of the bank, and I feel it is so tragic that over a decade after the collapse of the bank, the government had not thought more about this variable as an independent complement in the case, that the public should be able to trust the process. Public trust is essential to talking about successful tenders. That is why listening to the highest things is completely absurd. There's a financial minister here talking about the success of the invitation in the big movie. Then the executives begin to talk about the development side, that the invitation has been successful, just until the implementation. So was this a good idea until the auction began? Was the offer a good idea just until it started? But this decree went against the clear aims of the law on transparency, the clear aims of the law on equality, the clear aim of the law to promote active competition, and instead of healing the wound by having a transparent and open process that illuminated them, the wound was re-reefed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u53	Madam President. I've found this quite amazing, the whole picture and the big movie they're always talking about, both Ministers and recently all the members of the board that come in on interviews. Of course, it is always good when the overall picture of things is okay, but it does not prevent many wrongdoers from inside it. I mean, in 1985 there may have been a very good year, but there may have been murders and crimes and all kinds of years of life that still need to be handled. And here, it's just a bunch of things that are actually down to the point of losing confidence. In fact, we did not get started in the blues. It was estimated that a large proportion of the people just didn't trust this designated minister of finance to cover the sale. It's not good for itself, but it's the responsibility of the advance party and the left green to have led him to this seat, so we can talk about it forever. But I agree with what. This trust has somehow been undermined by a senator, and we are in a much worse place now at the end of April than we were at the beginning of the year. It's very serious. And unless I'm going to reroute it here, I urge you to listen to an interview with philosopher Alexander Henrysson, who was on Channel 1 this morning, on trust and transparency. I'm gonna give him the word. Listen to it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u54	Madam President. You see, I think it's a bit of a key, that if there's a judgment on whether a sale or an invitation went well, then you can't say, then you can't say that the result is good when there's no trust. The conclusion cannot be said to be good when the only way for this government to continue is by far the highest. Secretary of finance promises no more selling, and the rest of the classes are allowed instead to pack down the Banks. And trust is a big word in this. The most popular words of the government in this discussion have seemed to be an arm length. I wondered if it just takes an arm length from the Independence Party for the sale of these Kingdom interests. It simply is that way, the judgment of history requires an arm length from the Independence Party to sell these assets. That's the situation. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance is here in this hall, talking about the big movie, that it went well because the bank was to be sold, and the bank was sold, if we didn't look beyond that, it was going well. They were selling shares at the bank. It was sold. If we don't make any other demands, it all worked out on ten. However, in terms of equality, in terms of the key covariate of promoting active competition, this was not going well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u55	Madam President. I agree, we need a temporary minimum of A length of arm from the Independence Party. I cut it into a supernova this weekend, which was the highest. Secretary of finance is asking about the bank sale. He said that in the overall context and in the big picture, it was going quite well. Then they asked him: "Why would you go down to the Bank Office if it went so well? " Then he replied: "Have you not noticed that there is widespread distrust in the community and that is why we do so? Then you must go on; if that was the evidence that the Bank Office was shut down, nothing else -- there was also a distrust of the secretary of finance for the sale. Will he respond in the same way as letting the nation, those 83% who do not trust in this trade, who are afraid of this process - will he respond in the same way and take them aside? We'll see in the next few days. I don't think he will, and I didn't like him today that he was wearing those pants. Of course, considering the answers to an explosion, it would be most reasonable for him to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u56	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of finance for reporting this report to the council. It is very important for us to be able to discuss this matter very thoroughly, as well as to use this opportunity, calling for other ministers who serve on the Ministry Committee to appear here before the council and speak with us directly. In fact, I understand that there is a future prime minister, and that is a cause for rejoicing. But I'm also glad that there's been a lot of talk about trust here today and tonight in this discussion. You see, it's a very important concept, but there's always something to talk about it because when we're talking about how it went, and it's particularly prominent at the top. Secretary of finance, it is said that the signal that the campaign was successful is usually priced, distributed, good markets, and so on. On the other hand, there is less talk of trust. A former member of the Independence Party, Páll Magnússon, now put it well in an article in which he mentioned that one of the priorities may not be the price, distribution, or postmortem but that the common people who own it had confidence that the work was well done and that it was done well. And why is this important? Of course, this is important because we did not have a very long time ago with an entire knock in our arms. Its posts began many years, the nation was still in pain, and it is so brief that you feel that when it comes to making personal use of the banks, people somehow cut themselves off from the reality of what is being sold into it. This may be the lesson for us. It is not enough to set a wide range of fine conditions that involve financial or financial pursuits. Rather, these are even more moral factors that we need to consider when selling the Kingdom's belongings. Another factor that has been said about this is that perhaps the presentation of these matters might have been better. There's one of the core elements in this, the presentation under which this was done was highly directed to the financial market and directed to investors and to others who might be involved in this campaign. But this was not done by introducing the arrangement to the owner of the bank, the nation. Then we'll come back to it with trust. If the owner, the seller, is not comfortable with the process, how can we walk away from the table and say it's a success? Trust should, in fact, be, and the promises all around it should really be the strongest measure when we're selling the bank long after a bank collapse. That's the perfect key to this. And it's a complete political impossible, so I use that term, to believe that some trust can be spoken of when the masterlist looks like he did when he finally pulled out that list of rags and follow-ups because men had every idea that it should be possible to sell the state's belongings without the public knowing who was buying. Of course, we have the position now that the legacy of the Independence Party through this process is that it is probably the only right category in the world that has succeeded in the middle of a private policy, in the middle of a bank sales process, to support the government's ownership of the banking system here in Iceland. I'm sure it'll be a long time before the rest of Iceland's bank is invited out to buy, and the reason for that is extremely simple. There's no trust. It's not enough to come here like a top. The secretary of finance did today, and he proposes it at the council to bring down the Banks and then we're going to figure out how the matter is going to go on. You see, banks can be sold in such a way as to be involved with the Bank Office. But you can do it without the Bank office. The problem is, it's not the arrangement itself that creates the confidence now that it is completely removed by this poignant privatization. Now we have an atmosphere in our arms that the people do not trust that government to continue taking public property and offering money. That's how the landscape only faces us today, and we're sure not going to make it. I want to make it a subject of talk that the prehistory has been so great that the state has got these possessions in its arms, and then some heroic humanism has led to the creation of some inhuman value. The good news is that we've got the bank without charge. I wholeheartedly agree with what was presented here in a talk earlier this evening. paritaprevir "Love of Ásthildur Þórsdóttir." We cannot set things up that way, for all of us know that this terrible disturbance caused the state to hold the banks, that we cannot speak of without a reward. It's just disrespectful to all the people who are still licking their wounds after the collapse of the bank. Then we have to talk only about the responsibilities and the great responsibilities we have been seeing in this matter. I've been running a sentence today that I think is a complete key to all of this. That's what the Bank Office says after announcements are made that the bank administration is to be laid down. This is very interesting because it tells the whole story. In close cooperation with governments, which were fully informed about all the steps they took. I'm just gonna cancel this if they want me to. In fact, there's the Bank Office saying: "If we're responsible, then the secretary of finance is also responsible, then the government is also responsible. There is nothing else that is involved in those words. The context of these words should be kept in mind, just after declaring that it stands to destroy the bank office. Of course, your responsibilities are absolute. They're going to try to get themselves off responsibility by dropping the Banks. As part of this matter is to be passed by Government Accounting, and it is to be said that the SEC will then look at a certain smell that turns to the sales council and all of it. However, there is less talk of it, and no one is wondering about this point set up by the Bank Office, i.e. that governments were thoroughly informed of all the steps they took, so they have just the same responsibility as the Bank Office itself. Well, that's not the case. We cannot shield ourselves indefinitely behind this arm - length talk, since the arm length is designed to ensure a certain distance, but it is not supposed to remove political responsibility. I can tell you here that I have not been among those who have called for a minister of finance to resign. I have called up for the investigational committee of the Generals to consider the matter, and thereafter there will be some way to determine exactly where the responsibility lies. However, there is a lot to do with what has been said. When the government decides to put the bank office down, it is culminating in responsibility that it is really asking the whole nation, members of Congress, to take sides on whether political responsibility is not as high as the responsibility of the Bank Office. Here, too, we see by the council members their desire to put the sword to the fore when it comes to this responsibility. They have come here with some members of the council, and they have talked a lot about perhaps they should have asked a different question on a budget and a financial and business committee, perhaps taking a critical look at the situation when the council was being treated. Now people are trying to throw themselves at the sword somehow for the highest. Secretary of finance and the government. They say that they may not have realized that some floor of money should be placed, put minimums in the invitation. They didn't see that the sales advisers themselves would buy and so forth. No one could see this because there was never anything about this going in that direction. Of course, men of some kind have minimal confidence in any specific process, that they are not going far beyond that framework of the project. It could not have been so that any senator should have thought that salesmen could be bought at the auction. If salesmen are taking part themselves, it means, apart from the obvious incapitability, that financial agencies were in effect taking a great deal of credit for selling themselves over the state's property by discount. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It was impossible for anyone to think of, not anyone. My time is running out. I'm sure I could've talked a little longer about this, but I'm gonna call it a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u57	President. I'd like to add one thing to the argument. Senator. Of course, it is possible that the Bank Management Board was not simply telling the truth about the discussions with the government, which, of course, is serious. They further focus on the role of a minister, the reason why there is a double administrative arrangement in which the Bank Office is responsible for implementing procedures under the direction of the minister and minister of the Witnesses so that the Bank Office followed the instructions. He is not showing appreciation for his own works and is less partial toward them. When the Bank Board tells us that governments have known all along what they were doing, there are two possibilities. It can be true, and then everything is exactly what it is. A senator is saying. It may also be that it is not true, which is then very reprehensible. But there's nothing free of the Minister. The minister should have seen that the Bank Office did not follow instructions and did not show all the information if he had handled his share, the Minister's responsibility, and that the matter had been handled correctly. To fill up this image and maybe explain it a little bit more, I see a minister throw everything over into the Bank County, everybody else getting it all wrong. Whatever it is. A senator points out that it is very important to realize that the exact responsibility is with the minister. The reason the Bank Office claims to have informed ministers throughout the entire period is that a minister is responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir That's what happened to Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. Yeah, let me just talk about it a little bit. I feel like the sentence that came out there, after the announcement was made that the bank administration was admissible. I feel that the Bank Board goes out of its way and so strongly says that at every level the government - they actually talk about government rather than ministers - was thoroughly informed about all the steps that have been taken. Based on the timing of this declaration of the Banky, we know that it could not be seen there that the government's response, which turned out to be a failure, would have to shut down and strike the Bank County, so we must review it with the eye that the bank administration is in a very poor way to point out that the government is not able to escape responsibility in a way that the government is trying to do. When we're talking about responsibility, no matter how far we want to roll it, whether or not to apologize or to apologize for any human responsibility, we must hold on to it carefully and thoroughly that it is not possible to speak in the way that has been spoken, that everything was going well, but that was a factor that had not gone well enough. And so the minister is suddenly on his way. The minister was thoroughly informed of all the steps taken, close cooperation with the governments each step. You're absolutely right. Whether this is accurate or not, we must read this with the pretext that it is presented in the atmosphere that it has just decided to put down the Bank Office. We can see from these comments that the Bank Office is not content with the fact that it is thrown to the stake and under the bus, as they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u59	Mr. President. There's been a lot of data on when the Bank Office met the Ministry and the Government, and particularly the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs, I think I've been told they've met at least two of the meetings that the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs handled on this matter. Much more frequently, living downstairs in the Ministry, this was the case with the committee's committee meetings. There is a number of evidence that points to the truthfulness of what the Bank Management Board says she regularly informed governments about things. At the same time, though, I see how the Bank Board came to a financial committee and explained things that were not too accurate and that were not for players at all. Us senators are players in these things. We're not experts in selling banks. But the Ministry of Economics is supposed to have access to such experts, so the Bank Office might be able to speak in a more professional way than to a financial committee. It is obvious that, at both the Ministry and the Minister's office, they were far more than the legal committee received with the Bank Office. It was much less time that the council got to the bottom of what the Bank Management Board really meant and how the Bank Office understood the direction given by the Ministry. Perhaps there are some questions we would have wanted to ask this morning. But I hope we get to ask more about it at a meeting with Bank County on Wednesday. Watch it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u60	A respectable president. Perhaps I would just follow those words why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned that the Minister's Committee is a bit important in all of this. Of course, it is quite interesting that one of that committee would come, after it was all broken up, and declare that he was having a problem with the fact that this route was going and saw it coming, let's notice, that it would be a mess. Because we're talking about responsibilities, you wonder: What is the responsibility of the minister who sees that a major government decision to sell property at 50 billion in a closed outpost would end in confusion? It is very serious that the minister should not have submitted his concerns publicly. We must need to get an explanation for why not. Of course, it was that way, as we know it, to the highest. On the move, the prime minister spoke about the formality of the subject. But the highest. After all, the minister of business takes it down firmly with this claim that she warned and saw that it would be a mess, that it must be one of the things to be considered when going through this sale. It is not enough for the government to look at what is going on in the bank and that the SEC will then look at what has to do with sales or something like that. There is no one, as we're always pointing out, to wonder at this top of the chain of responsibility. It's really weird, if we just talk about this as three songs, that the only song we leave behind is the top song, where the responsibility should really be the most, the political responsibility. It is the ideal representatives of the public to make decisions on how to sell, and one of the three saw it coming to an end in a mess. This needs to be explained much more, both here at the council and by formal investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u61	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The secretary of finance for his report earlier today as well as for the matter. The proposal for sale in Iceland banks was and is in line with the government contract that is in force between the governments, the forwards, the Independence Party, and the Left Motion of Green. During the season, it is expected that the state's funds will continue to reduce property in the financial system and use the benefits of building wood that had become a great need, perhaps the highest priority of our transportation system, the road system, as well as paying off debts that are reasonable and especially after the pandemic we've been going through, Covid. Of course, in addition to this, it must be noted that in my opinion and in the long term, it is wise to reduce the risk of property to the State. It even came. ... inthereports that came to us on the Economic and Business Committee. There is also the fact that technological advances in financial technology that have created opportunities for banking can involve significant risks. Of course, the need for banks to adapt to the trend with a considerable investment and risk shot that I believe is unwise in the long run for the State to take on its own. Of course, we can add and consider other things, but this may particularly be what has been reported from the Synthetic Commission, which has adopted the view that it is really unfortunate that the State is a majority owner in the three business banks and that it is especially viewed by competitively. One of the purposes of all of this is to promote an active competition in this country. It's my opinion that the former Icelandic bank sales have succeeded, and it has had quite a good trust and a lot. But now we're discussing the second sale, and I think it's good to review how these cases have developed. This is among the views that I have personally considered in our consideration of a financial and business committee, and when we returned our resignation to a minister for this sale, that the purpose of the sale was, in addition to the ones I've mentioned earlier, to build up wood and pay off debts, to maximise the recovery of the state funds from the share, to contribute to the diversity and healthy and to distribute long-term holdings and to increase investments. To this, and with this in front of us, especially when it comes to healthy property and spread over a long period of time, it was such an interpretation that it was specifically meant investments that were large and, as noted earlier today, were investors who could stand by the bank through acid and sweet and have come to be longer and strong. Of course, it is in some cases like this, but I have to say, in spite of the good presentation of the state's Bankisol to us on a committee, it is my feeling that the project has not fully reflected what has been presented. It's just my understanding and experience with this case. In addition, it has to be said that it may have been necessary to perform and be present somewhere in the process, no matter what anyone says, that we could have proposed some kind of roof or minimum or such, some demands of the party to ensure that what is presented, and have established a white book for the financial system on the healthy and varied ownership of these companies. In this respect it is perfectly natural that this process of sales is a matter of exchange of opinions. I think all of us, senators, and others have noticed that there have been a number of factors that have given us reason to consider certain aspects of this project. Of course, it does. In particular, these were people who were buying small amounts of money, even with negative their own money and rumor that salesmen themselves were involved in the auction. These are all the factors that we need to get to the bottom of and get these things straight for all time and that we do, in my opinion, by trusting in the investigation or by an opinion that is now being initiated by the State Review and the Marine Department, to investigate and review thoroughly the factors that I think have caused, and to mention the past, suspicion of this process. I have said that if anything comes to that conclusion, I will, of course, support that it will be examined, the factors, and the government will decide to do that. It is important when we are talking about public property or government property and its sale, as in this case sales for the government's share in Iceland Bank, that the process of a state of complete trust. At the same time, it requires a process, of course, to be beneficial. My experience is that the trust I mentioned was in the presence of the previous sale of the government in Iceland Bank is not fully present today. With the bank business and the position and the future, I think it was a call, I've at least got a call. sense it, change of the overall frame of action when it comes to how we treat the State's ownership of the future in financial contributions, and therefore it is wise to respond to this plea in this way. I think the President's opinion, which is taking out specifically the administrative part of this process, can help us all to find arrangements that will be necessary for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u62	President. Two things. First, like a whisk. A senator says, if there's anything up, he's willing to appoint a research committee. The problem is that we set an example for a decision made by State Accounting on the privatization of banks, which went completely wrong, since there were no comments made on the privatization. So if a New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures gives similar conclusions now that nothing was wrong, then we're nothing closer. We know that the NTSB will learn more and more information than the National Review Committee can do, which means that if a National Relations Study returns a conclusion that says, "There's nothing wrong with this, we still need a research committee." It's inevitable. We know that the secretary of finance sold his father a bank, that's not fair. It has to be examined, it's not complicated. On the other hand, if a President's inspection returns a report that says something has gone wrong, because circumstances may be a little different now, then they want to. A member of the NTSB. In each case, the NTSB needs an investigational committee. Why are we waiting on it? I don't understand. The other question I'd like to ask you. A senator says that the project was not good and that we should have made demands. Is it because a minister of finance cannot be trusted to do this decently? Really? The Congress is here to give guidance on the reporting of the secretary of finance and the Minister of finance, within large foals, to do his job, the Minister works for the council. But if the council is constantly making demands and guards, etc. To the Minister, why should we have that minister? Why don't we have some minister who can do this properly?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u63	President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think we have to look at this, so there are two agencies that have to study and study. On the one hand, it's a state reexamination that, as I said in my speech, has this administrative aspect. Then there's what happened. A senator was hinting about some aspect of the campaign itself. Without a clear answer, I feel that the Federal Commission is now looking at the role of sales agents and their participation in the auction. I just have to say for my part that I feel sad, that's just my heartfelt opinion, to hear why. Congress members speak down the agencies we have on behalf of the council, in this case Government Accounting. It's a well-known method, but I find it sad. I think we should allow this investigation to take its course and reiterate what I said in my speech that I will not be impressed that if any of the issues arise, I will support further investigation on the matter at the council scene. Regarding the procedure, it is my understanding and interpretation of the implementation and custody of the bank administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u64	President. It would be welcome if those in the government would stop putting us in the political stand at all times. No one has, not one U.S. Accounting. They rely on each State Accounting for the work that the Government Accounting can do. I understand that Ástad Ásthildur Þórsdóttir mistrusts the Top Gun in a certain way and from that point of view, I just understand it very well, nothing at all. But that is not necessarily a general view under the present circumstances. So if they could please stop telling us what the government's situation is, stop putting words in our mouths, that would be welcome. We trust a Government Accounting program to care for the assignments it is due to take care of. But we are pointing out that there are precedents for not being able to look at everything. How sad it is that the people on the floor are being examined, not ministers who are also responsible for selling banks to their father!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u65	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He's just gonna have to respect it to me because I understood why. A senator in such a way, and even still, does not have the perfect confidence of the Senator in the State Accounting. [[... Wow.]] It's just gonna have to get started.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u66	Stop it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u67	That he trusted a State Accounting to take care of these assignments, but just not in this case. [[Up front.]] I see why. A senator even less so today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u68	President. I really don't like it, when I said it very clearly and clearly earlier what I meant in my words, that the Senator would come back here and try to turn something out of them. It's just that it's being made up of me. It's just that it's been a mischievous what I'm saying, even though I've said it very clearly. So if it happened. A senator will continue to state this, and he will have to answer for that on the presiding committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u69	A respectable president. There's a lot of talk about Government Accounting and trust in her. Hv. A senator insists that this matter is being taken into consideration by the State's Accounting. I'd like to ask you what. A senator to see if he is found law No. 46/2016, of the State accountant's accountant's reviews, specifically indicate that governments can take special initiative in considering a government accountant and that there is a good chance that the government will request the review of certain issues. I want to hear from what? A senator knows if there is any law on this matter. They are very clear in this regard on the legal basis of the Government's decision to consider and where to take the initiative. It's discussed that it can come from a management and surveillance committee and from nine members of the council. I would like to hear from him whether he feels that the government, as the World Parliament's headquarters, is in particular the initiative to ask Generalis to investigate himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u70	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm only holding to what I said in my speech. I trust the State Accounting and the SEC to investigate the factors that the office has already been given to treat. A public review has agreed to initiate a study of certain factors and has the administrative element for a special opinion and yes, I interpret it to be the correct course and that this study and study are in good practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u71	A respectable president. In an announcement to state reexamination as of any given moment. A senator witnesses is especially referred to a 2nd paragraph. Section 8. Act of a state accountant. It's a currency warrant, so it goes: ▪ When it is especially necessary for a government accountant to look at or evaluate the management of government funds in a designated case or in a designated field, he is permitted to charge a fee. I want to ask you why. A senator, because he clearly trusts this process so well, whether he knows what will be involved, whether he intends to take charge of the Ministry of finance, whether this will be done in the same way as when, for example, when he does so. The economic situation of Aluminium was reviewed on the basis of this provision long ago by an agreement with the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport and if it considered to be a good compromise and if it were in accordance with the view that the Ministry of Development and the State Review would make a special agreement. He must, since he trusts all of this so well, know what the process is, because I have not taken care of it and I feel that this energy is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u72	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I think it's perfectly clear in this that Government Accounting is totally independent of everything in its jobs, although it is an institution at the council scene. I just reiterate that I have complete trust in Government Accounting. [[Up front.]] - You can laugh about it out here in the hall. But it's simply that I trust her, perhaps in contrast with other members of the council here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u73	A respectable president. Now that I'm out of the chair, I'm just gonna come up here and try to be careful with people. I'd like to encourage some indiscretions. Councilmen to give peace to members of the council who are at peace to talk there and not to be constantly groping ahead. It's just disrespectful and that's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-25.u74	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson's Auguste for the speech he gave earlier. I liked a lot of things in his speech, but he now put on a little flight when he began talking about the views of the government opposers on how the State Accounting Office handles research in general. I think there's a little scalloping around here. I'm going to insist that all the government opposers I've heard speak well well, but they may not believe that a state reexamination is the right person to investigate this, including, exactly. Because of what I came into the first part of a talk, i.e. that the Constitution is not to be considered directly to the responsibility of a minister. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Björn Leví Gunnarsson's bear earlier pointed out that we can have some conclusion in the National Reconclusion, indicating that nothing wrong with this matter, but because the office does not examine all of them, something may have gone under the radar that could otherwise have been opposed to some further opinion. That's kind of what we're talking about. But I would like to ask. Because he gave a fine speech earlier, a senator said: "What do you think the senator felt that this particular way should be carried out in the campaign and that a minister saw it become a mess and that the warnings were not given to the public for the sale? What do you think? A senator about that? It's the highest. Business secretary not failing his obligation to those who own the holding part of the sale?
