ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-10.u1	1st. South, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir. Yeah. A respectable president. I recommend, on behalf of the 1st, a smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee for Committee Control, with a change in bill to legalize various financial legislations. Induction and other key elements of the bill are that it is suggested that six European types of financial markets be adopted and intended to be adopted. The bill suggests changes in financial market laws, No. 115/2021, market fraud law, No. 60/2021, Code on the description of the stocks offered in a general auction or taken for business on a structured market, No. 14/2020, budgetary European monitoring laws on financial markets, No. 24/2017, credit ratings law, No. 50/2017, and No. 108/2007, plus a secondary change in three other layers. The committee discussed the matter and received a meeting of guests. Comments were presented in a committee study. The first smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee contributes to changing the bill. First, a change in Iceland's Secret Bank for monitoring the branch offices of foreign people is proposed to match a comment in the review of the Federal Bank. Second, there is a change in legalization of European Parliament and Council regulations. With regard to the establishment of the European Commission, the Agency's headquarters is moving from London to Paris because of the United Kingdom exit from the European Union. Other forms of change 1. Smaller parts are technical and not intended to have a physical effect refer otherwise to a detailed discussion of the changes proposed by the Committee. The aim of the Regulation's sentence is to support the publishing and registration of funds for the so-called growth market for SMEs. The purpose of market growth is to make it more accessible and more attractive for SMEs to use financial markets to make financial contributions. The EU Regulation from 2019 2115 is first aimed at reducing the cost of growth markets at the same time as maintaining market purity and investment protection. Second, its purpose is to register interest companies, market markets become more sellable, and consequently such markets become more attractive, including for investors and publishers. Third, taking into account the Regulation to contribute to the provision of market markets for growth as markets and to increase trade in such markets in each market and cross-border area. It is hoped that the approved bill will lead to improved funding for SMEs' opportunities through the Water Valley market for SMEs. From the above point of view, the first smaller item will be used for the approval of the bill by the changes made. Under the opinion of the 1st cut-off of the Economic and Business Committee literature as well as the current sector, respectively. Councilmen, Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, and Árnadóttir Enran Arannadóttir.
