ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u1	A respectable president. The government introduced a government contract in November, didn't it? It discusses how to improve, increase, and increase the rest. We've been waiting for Congress and anti-continent action. Under here, we have, for example, these teams. It is critical that the Constitution of the government is excessive, and the program is here at the council thereafter. Everything is totally off the line with the Minister's declaration in the news class. There's a financial program now. What do we see there? Yes, there we see an amazing disregard for public service in the country. We see a tremendous expenditure and ignorance in our joint systems, our joint institutions. All of this is contrary to the wonderful promises of a government covenant. I hope there's a problem along the way. [[The president calls.]] I hope this financial plan will just be thrown into the ocean and just put forward. This is completely out of harmony with what has been brought up and what was spoken about in the campaign in the fall. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u2	President. We're here eight groups, different sizes. There's a lot of space in committees. Now there are five categories of government opposition on the budget. Three groups of directors have a permanent representative, and two groups have an audience officer. All of us were invited to attend a financial minister to introduce this remarkable or insignificant financial program this morning, except for two publicists sitting here, Guðbrandur Einarsson and Bergþór Ólason. It's been missed. So because of the natural nature of other understudys, I was the only one in the position of government sitting at this meeting. It was very cuddly, very interesting experience I have to say. I'm not saying I've had enough work to do at that meeting in the government, but I'm not in that position, it's each category for myself and it's got to be offered to everyone. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u3	Madam President. When the government started to operate in the fall, it considered it more beneficial to use the previously unknown majority of financial resources to increase the number of its members in the Council Committees, on the contrary to our warnings that believed it to have a negative impact on the work here at council and on the work here and on the democracy. We have seen evidence that this was a failure, but one of the clearest cases was yesterday, when it occurred to announce the two members of the government opposition that, because of the use of force, would be doing their work on a budget committee without being trapped by members of the presentation. They were just not invited to the presentation. Now I suppose it was a mistake, but it's exactly the mistake that this hastyness, this kind of force, this thoughtlessness, this high-management of the government parties leads to.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u4	A respectable president. As a new senator in the fall, I had hoped to get a place on a budget committee. This may be what I have had a little interest in and have been doing as a mayor over the years, wanting to have a full share there. The conclusion, however, was that because the more part felt the need to have more part of it, I was converted to an audience officer. Of course, as such, I need to try to work hard and have access to what others have, including writing on the committee and the like. I was asked to monitor e-mails last night because maybe this morning we should be invited to see the secretary of finance. I waited until midnight and I didn't get a meeting. So when I got here this morning and I asked, "Didn't you have a meeting? Yeah, it was a meeting, but it's just a forgotten message. [[The president calls.]] I ask: Is this the type of work you can accept? [[Foreground on: No.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u5	Madam President. This is not the first time we came up here and complained about these tactics and attitudes. I agree with those who have previously recommended that it is likely to be a mistake, simply forgetting the representatives of the section at meetings. But even though this is a mistake, it reflects the exact mental attitude we have seen since the fall of Congress. This surprised me. There's something here. The decision of the greater part to use the majority of the committees, which I understand is something that was not used in the past. Then we've seen one example after another in our work at this council, the absence of ministers in unsubstantiated inquiries, the absence of members of the greater part, and many other signs that there is no proper respect for the Council as a single unit by ensuring participation in the lesser part and that our voice is being heard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u6	Madam President. I have to agree with the comments presented here. But if this were the only thing, if you had the conviction that things like these came up because people were busy doing what they had to do, you might have an understanding of this. I remembered, just when I listened to the members of the council who have expressed themselves here before me, a little question I asked to the highest degree. Minister of wood, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, on the new campaign funding for several years. I submitted this inquiry on February 2, 2022. It's been 55 days since, and there's not even been a delay to not answer that question. There's been no answers. This inquiry was put forth to the last council. Since then, 290 days have passed and no answer has been made. Communicating counseling and government with us senators, who are here - and members of the government, are also involved - of course, at the highest level. The president will be part of the task of helping us generals to deal with the preconceivable relations with the government parties and the Ministry that the Ministers of the Class represent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u7	Madam President. Do you remember here during the last term when it was spoken of the expansion of the Generals in a government contract? That sounds like a joke. But it's the same government that's running the Council today. People who used their full strength to squeeze out every drop of power offered after election will then sit quietly here in the Senate hall for the entire election, not expressing themselves on any subject. The government officials say that they can keep quiet at a Senate Hall because the main body of the Senate work is on the committees anyway. What happens then? The few members of the board of directors who are allowed into the committees sit alone there because the officers who do not get stuck with the desire for power at the start of the term are not invited to meetings. The government situation was of such little importance that it doesn't even have to be invited to a meeting. I hope it was an accident, hopefully, but it still reflects the attitude. This reflects a disregard for our being the General Assembly of all Icelanders, not just those who chose to rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u8	Madam President. It will be built up to 20,000 apartments over the next five years, with 7,000 of these with the presence of the official in the form of a wide variety of housing support. We have clear goals. - It wrote the highest. The minister of wood in the Morning Press a few weeks ago, and other ministers have spoken the same way in the media, talking about increasing the supply of housing. They finally figured it out. What, then, do we see in a newly developed financial program? Yes, that's where we see that the government is going to directly lower the planning for the overall apartment system by 2 billion. They're going to reduce the government's donations to house building without profit by 2 billion. The government, the administrative body here at the General Assembly, the people who are always talking about offer, supply, will directly promote a recession of social housing by hand through budgets. That's the plan according to a financial plan. This is the government's housing policy. [[The president calls.]] These same people dare to live in Reykjavíkurburg, the local community that has social housing and helps to support it in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] It's a shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u9	A respectable president. Yes, I'm a new senator here, and I had hopes that I could have some effect, and maybe especially in the interests of the households, and to defend them. The government does not care for the interests of the households, but it does not care to allow others to do so. There's no bills about the government's getting anywhere. On January 17, I proposed a bill that insurance on loans and rents be frozen for one year, for instance, for the growing inflation today to 6.7%, I'll thank you if it doesn't go up to two figures. But, no, we can't even get along with the necessary issues that the government has no interest in, perhaps allowing us to take care of them instead. But this action would be of best benefit to the population of the worst. Without calling them something to do with dates, they're there. It is those who are in a rented market and who are caught in the traps of insurance loans. I just say, if not now, when should we take action to protect this household?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u10	Madam President. Just like others who have come up here, I had to get power greed in the government section so much that I ended up serving as an emissary officer on the State Department. There was a joint work meeting between the Ministry and the State Department the other day, and when I showed up, I wasn't on the list. Despite the fact that I had received the meeting, thanks to the chairman of the committee and the NTSB, the Ministry had forgotten to put the delegates on the visit list. Fortunately, the security watch in Iceland isn't so that I have to apply for many days' notice, so I now got the guest pass. But I think, Madam President, it would be very good if it were taken up for the Ministry who is on any committees, including an audience, and it sent to the hearing so that they can invite the right people to meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u11	A respectable president. Throughout the years I've been at the council, there's been talk of building new tactics, raising the respect of the Generalis, but it's always going to end in the exact same place. The government has no problem with the government filling their contracts at the beginning of the council. It's no problem that they go into committees while the government has nothing to offer. But when the government thinks it's ready then it's time to roll over the opposition. Then we don't have anything to do with it. I've wondered why the government behaves like this, but I think the explanation lies in their increasing recruitments, and they still haven't figured out who the Minister is in any position or what the Ministry is. I don't think they've just charted which ministers are going to contribute, and that's why we have to feel sorry for them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we'll never feel this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u12	Madam President. In the light of words, why? paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson here that we could have sympathy for the stewards who are setting themselves up for a new office, that does not mean that they are hanging around picking desks and chairs for six months. They must stand at some point. But I want to say something bad. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson is waiting to the highest power. For example, the president of the United States of America, to be with us in governmental opposition as it turns out that a fundamental decision was made by the administrations to end this virtualness in terms of the Council. It was a decision to stop it. It would have been so cheap to let it go down inside. The government came up with so little work in the terms of the season that it would have been a blessing to them just to maintain this goal, although nothing had happened with it. So I pray to the highest. For example, the president of the United States is taking us in charge of this project. In all that has taken place during this time of election, it is seen that the apparentness of the commission we had during the past term is not even to fly it any longer. [[The president calls.]] This is the time to run through it with full weight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u13	Madam President. I think this case is a little mysterious, forgetting to invite members of the council. Clearly, this is not a General's problem, it is a very clear page where committees can be consulted and viewed individually. A financial committee: Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Haraldur Benediktsson, Eyjólfur the son of Ármannsson, Bjöl Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, Brondótti Haraldsdóttir, Kristrún Frostadóttir Stefánsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason PéturssonIngi and the audience are Bergþór Ólason and Einarsson. The identity of a financial committee is clearly defined. I would like to court the President to be curious only about this process because it smells a little old-fashioned, that there are generally a few categories that there is always some class with a permanent agent, hence, not needed for an audience. Times changed. However, there seems to be no upcoming organization. In fact, the identity of the committees in each committee is understood by computerized software through the Generals' web site. If the Ministry were computerized, it would simply be information that they would receive in their system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u14	Madam President. I need to redirect the discussion to the committee of government opposition and at the same time agree with all those who have come and talked about it. Here it is true to remind that the government has 41% of the people behind it, but the government thinks it is true that it is reflected in 12.5% of the government's leadership. This decrease in part-time work, at the work of representatives of 41% of the nation, was justified by the lack of cooperation during the last term. This situation is not new, e.g. was overthrown by the Council of Government without any help from the Generals, not even the Ministers themselves, who are also members of the Parliament, had something to say about the new Ministry or Action Department. This was decided by three individuals, president of the three different governments, at a closed meeting between them. This order, not controlled by members of the Congress government, will cost a minimum of 2 billion during the election period. In context of this, it is estimated that the full payment of mental - health services will be 1.7 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to mention only an open meeting of the Economic and Business Committee this morning that discussed financial stability. The meeting guests were the bank manager and the assistant bank manager. There the bank manager mentioned that the interest rate in Iceland was negative today and that it was actually moving money from those with money to those with loans. At the same time, however, we can see that those who took unfavourable loans in the best of circumstances at the lowest rate have been dealing with a large amount of expenses due to changes in interest, up to 30 to 40,40 thousand k. in a month, which means that the pay would have been a total of over 50 to 60,000 dollars. higher to live up to the additional pay now that people have to make. Also said the Secret Bank representatives: "What effect does this have on homes? " I wondered: " What is the sympathy for those in this society who are not suffering if these words apply to what action to take?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u16	Madam President. I just wanted to, in the light of this discussion, or its beginning, that an audience was not announced this morning in the Ministry of finance said I was able to make it. Einarsson Although this may not be mine because it was the Ministry of Meetings. I'm sorry, though, because it matters that we all sit on the same table when we're getting information directly from a ministry like this this this morning, even though it may have been in the media an hour later. That doesn't mean we're all entitled to this. I called it, so it's said here, to the Ministry, to remember putting an agent on his list and that we couldn't enjoy this again. Just to be said here, they were totally sent to the Ministry that it wasn't acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u17	Madam President. Yes, it's a little awkward that they forgot to invite people to a meeting. I think your apology is okay, but it's not exactly the case that's the most serious. I enjoyed hearing this mention of what was stated in the Treaty of the First Government, which happens to be the same in reality today, with regard to the growth of the General Assembly. This is not a government contract, and I agree with it. paritaprevir Ólason's trio says that it is in a way a positive step that was abandoned by the outward show of those words. There is more serious than that that that is going against this goal of universal growth. In the undisputed case of the council, due to the majority of the council, which should now have something over the administration, the administrative institutions have begun to order the council for actions, the majority of the authority is used to obtain more parts in committees and are forgotten to announce the office's share at meetings. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure the apology is received, but it's getting a little nasty and ugly. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u18	Madam President. Lately, a loud debate over the needs of Iceland's energy for the immediate future has been made. Most of the images are drawn up are one way; more, faster, and better. More energy needs to be used wisely. We need to choose the best along with nature protection, explore new options, and progress in energy. Sports fear and realize that nature often has little value when it comes to public interests. On November 30, 2007, Köldran's activation was formally initiated. The top of the valley was crested with three dams; Crumb's inflation, over 200 feet [200 m] high. It was then said that there was no need for further activation in the Orient, that uninhabited ones other than those under the neck of the neck would be left dead. Today, 15 years later, there is a strategy for activation by Gothal's Clantic Valley, an idea that has so far been controversial in view of the fact that it stands outside the part of the lava field that was disturbed by the Káledran River, the most natural talk ever caused by man in Iceland. If so, the plans now appear at the same time as the highest level. Economic and economic ministers assigned a nomadic committee to make proposals for the Eastern countries where the City Valley River flows and a part of the estimated construction area is within the middle of the highlands. The energy debate goes on to a large extent that we have all green activation options, that Iceland can and has the obligation to produce as much energy as possible. It is also important to remember that it is the natural nature of Iceland, which is less than 57 square miles [57 sq km] of the medium, not the interests of American aluminium companies. Then it is important to remember that the Merians were going to do enough for energy in the future. To appeal, let us see that a policy of energy based on supply and demand is completely unsatisfactory. [[The president calls.]] The priorities of Icelandic green energy for energy exchanges and Icelandic homes and companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u19	Madam President. Residents of Brefjörður are now looking to how they can better link communities with the British Frontiers, to strengthen them as a whole into the future. Last Saturday, after some experiments, it was concluded that the Stykisholem will now be joined to my old native Helgafells band. Close cooperation has been between the rural communities for decades, and they have actually been one service and employment area, which industry has also been more closely linked to, following improved transportation and increased cooperation. In the past, that area was still on the coast of Forest and Dali. The inhabitants of the Dala settlement now discuss which way to go for the future and ways to promote verdant settlements in the Dalls. The last weekend, I passed through the neighboring company of the Conspiracy of the Helgafell Squad and Shykisholm Town of Dala. I had the privilege of being invited to a large and successful district assembly in the Valley of Burgur. It discussed ways of furthering the environment in the Netherlands for the future, focus on emphasis, and a number of practical suggestions to follow up on projects named Dala-Audur, a cooperation project based on Freight. There are many interests to be fought for in behalf of the Valleys. One of them is the restoration of the Forest Beach roads that the people were talking about, which I've arranged for, just for the convention, has proposed a Senate resolution of the materials that now lie with an environmental and transport committee for follow-up. Transport is a key to unity, and I became aware of this weekend that improved transport on the coast of Forest Beach would be the primary reason for starting real negotiations in the west. Here I would especially like to stress the importance of the speed of construction of entire roads on the coast of Forest and the propagation of Eelfjörður. The current areas are geographical and culturally linked and share a common legend and human life all the way back to land. [[The president calls.]] It is important to keep such factors in the context of harmony, that areas have a common history that strengthens the area, and increases its structure as a community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u20	A respectable president. Theflation rate is 6.7% and is now exceeding the cost of Iceland's Federal Bank and is the largest cause of rising housing prices. So now the inflation is 6.7%, but without the housing team, it would be 4.6%. Home is about 2.1 percentage points. This results in a chain effect that leads to a high pay load on the households and a significant increase in loans. Secondly, key analysts predict continued increase in housing prices, including due to the lack of housing. So it looks like significant increases in index prices over the next year, directly due to rising housing prices. The lack of housing is not to blame for the people of the country. There, governments, both governments, and the government, need to examine themselves. The increases that lack of housing certainly do not concern the homes of the country that have no cause for that condition. The pressure to increase the population and home because of the government's mismanagement, whether by local governments or by government, does not reach any direction and simply is not available. It is not predictable that facilities will be reduced in the near future. I have from the beginning information about the situation for those who are looking for housing at the moment. The market can preferably be compared to a wolf pit that has dozens of eyes, even bids, and sells far above the intended price, even more than 15%. So in the weeks, months, and years, house prices must be rising. Not to be overlooked is the case with renters. A bill I've seen was 280,000 bucks. in January 2020, and the same people in the same apartment paid $310,000. this year in January. Based on the current inflation and predictableity, their rent will probably rise by at least 20,000 bucks. That's another one this year. Based on inflation predictions, Covid, global war, and rising prices, we have to fix this. In any sense of that word, houses are to be taken out of the index. They may not save everything, but they would resist the harshest influence of inflation in homes. The simple process is the least we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u21	President. Most agree that innovation is the best way to create a more varied job life and to create valuables, ways to attract people and to keep people alive. For this reason, it is for all of us, of course, to use the power and knowledge of all those in the new world. But the situation is different. A recent report published index investments in 2021 discussed 25 enterprises. 22 of these companies were reserved for men, three companies were mixed, no women's business was found. President. Does it mean that women just have to start a business more diligently? No. The problem is, women don't get to start a business or they don't get good ideas. However, they do not enjoy the same access to capitalism. The financing of the compass is not an issue for women. One fund, Crowberry Capital, has registered the sex ratios of the companies seeking investment in him. There were 25% of the enterprises reserved only for women, nearly 60% men only, while the rest of the mixed enterprise, which was said to be full of women. So the political question is why the access of women to innovation is more limited to financing than to men. Are we as a group to those who are conscious, perhaps not least of conscious prejudice or thoughts about sex? These funds take the largest part of the investment budget. They need to wake up. Our pensions have billions of dollars to play, which go to these funds. How do you work e.g. Crusty, government investment fund? Does Neo - creation minister have a vision of how the capital is divided, how we work women's powers and ideas as hard as men? If we're just betting on the ideas of men in our community, we're probably knocking a lot of good ideas and cutting off the table. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to bring up this position in this room and hope that the new Minister of Creation is alert to the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u22	A respectable president. At the Akureyri Hospital, there is a tremendous problem, and it is clear that the hospital cannot continue its operations. The executives believe it lacks about 550 billion. K. up to the company and have already decided to resort to various measures, close, e.g. Children and teenagers for five weeks in the summer, only in the emergency service, the closing of the psychiatric system, and only the emergency services, valves on Kristnes, which performs aging and rehabilitation services, and reduces the function of the general walking department and operating room more than ever. Of course, we should one more time reduce our maintenance, but we know that it is short - lived and likely to come back on us later, even increasing the problem. Despite this, however, there is only a drop in the ocean that comes from this. More important measures must be taken to bring together. What's to be done? Where, then, there is a need to reduce the quality of our ministry. The Akureyri hospital is not just a backup hospital but simply a cornerstone of health care in the national part of the country and is of utmost importance to the security, quality of life, and competitiveness of the part of the country. This should, in effect, be a top priority because we sometimes talk about the importance of priorities, that the hospital in Akureyri and the hospitals in the country are being fired so that it is more possible to contribute to the structure and ability to deal with future challenges than it is to have the unbelievable cuts that now seems to be imminent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u23	A respectable president. I come from the Valley of Bildud, in the West, and I have decided to give my home voice here today. I've attended the office of the president of the town in the West, during the current terms and in the past. stand by build-up of employment and campaign for transportation. In the past ten years or so, salmon farms have grown over the spine, and it is now known that by the past year, the export of exports through the ports of the West has flowed to considerable levels. The south side of the West is bright. For a long time, there has not been a wealthy garden in this remote area to pay off employment. So I have to say that the inhabitants of the West have not come to the next settlement without driving through the dirt road so far, and I will bring them to the Forest and to the Duminth. That's a good thing to do, and I'm going to give myself a compliment to the highest degree. Minister of wood for his conduct in these matters. People now experience better times, growth, and population. The western rural society came together 28 years ago and is defined south by the Western Society as a work area. Patrekjörður, Trikefjordur, and Burgundy Valley are the urban areas of the area. A number of times each winter is closed or maligned on mountain roads within the community, which make it difficult for the inhabitants both to seek employment and necessary basic services. So I'd like to use this opportunity to draw attention to and at the same time agree to the demands of the population that they will be in a tunnel and the three urban cores, the Patrek Fjords, the Tribals, linked together in the only way that never sleepable society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u24	A respectable president. On Saturday we were asked if we have a head covering on having children in poverty. The questions were raised about whether it was reasonable to charge children for school meals, preschool, dental, soccer, or music courses. Of course, all of this should be free to the children and parents of those who, of course, are to receive the wages and/or pension that are decent and well beyond poverty limits. We are one of the richest societies in the world, and the government is a disgrace to having thousands of children in poverty. Soils, cake books, charts, endless figures on the health and health system must immediately be stopped and all once and for all that no family in Iceland lives under poverty limits, much less in desperate circumstances. That a child does not receive medical care and wait for months or years on a waiting list should not take place in a civilized society where human rights are to be put first. They are so few, those who speak of the government of poor people. Why, then, do they not do anything? Is it okay for children to be physically, mentally, and socially hungry just because they have so few? These are thousands of children. Is it reasonable to minimize child support for the lowest pension pay from the state insurance agency, which is well below poverty limits? Why? Does the government think that by stopping poverty from raising children? Is that supposed to be the muscle? A private family with children at the corner of the welfare and health system is a disgrace to us here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u25	Madam President. The energy exchange needs to be activated, eaten up by one another, especially after the independent party discovered green gold and the energy exchange can be profited by a great deal. The only problem is that it's not possible. There is nothing in the scope of the electricity sector in this country that allows governments to supply electricity for energy exchanges. It's not in the electronic law, it's not in a frame plan, it's not in an enterprise ownery policy. You see, the third energy package we received from the European Union was not fully implemented. It has to be done. The project is to define the public service called Public Service Obilation in the package, so that energy can be set in order for public and small companies and for energy exchanges. This has to be defined as making it absolutely clear that it is a special energy market for big users who compete in the global power market. At that market, public and home and small companies are not supposed to be. The energy exchange itself must then be prioritised. We need to start with land, and we need to decide how we do it and how much energy we can set aside for it. Until all of this is over, Madam President, the appeal for the need for new energy efficiency will be nothing more than empty slogans. Let's keep the background so that, in fact, energy exchanges can be done here on land.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u26	Madam President. Today, the discussion of the treatment period of sexual abuse has resumed. Things are not acceptable, as they have often noted, and no doubt nobody has missed any. In fact, a large group still remains to be bound, a group of people who do not trust in the legal system, and then rightly so. This group of people will be left to wait on the infinite. He's really a bit off the system. It is difficult to trust a system that postpones research and that constantly reduces the treatment of a subject. Finally, the system will be filled with trust, a frightening thought. The word on the street is that the period of treatment is too much for people even to accuse. That some people refuse sexual abuse because of the time of court treatment is an unscrupulous situation that is just what happens when the government and the prosecution do not have a reliable record of wrongdoing. We have arrived at the scene where an investigation of rape has taken an average of 14 months for the police. What kind of system is that? It must be the objective and will of the Generals that the laws we put and the funding we provide in the institutions contribute to a fair legal system but do not leave people with lax faith in the systems we have created. In this case, the prosecution is not the only cause, but it is ours here at the Council to promote the police by educational means and by means of means of careful review. The wait after the outcome creates an insurmountable atmosphere for all concerned, the wait alone creates unnecessary suffering, uncertainty, and a delay in matters, often resulting in a mild or even disintegration of punishment. We should encourage people to seek their rights, not to scare them away from them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u27	Madam President. In the fall of 2020, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddsdóttir, who was then a sports minister, made a special announcement to the Ministry that it was hopeful for a national football player in the next five years, 2025. No funding on the government to this important project since and in the financial programme for the next five years, which was introduced this morning, is not expected to be national stadiums in sports. It's just not the time -- which, of course, is too far away because, as everybody knows, it's more about that we're running out of time. The fact is, over the past few years, assessments have been made, groups have been developed, and groups have been discussed. Also, it's not long since Daðason Ejallon, the Education and Children's Affairs, declared that all the grounds were in place to go into national arenas and good if there weren't any home in a new national stadium in the season. I ask, Madam President, how far do the government hope this will be? Iceland's national arenas, both for sports and for sports, are children of their time, and do not meet modern standards, not for players, not for employees, and not for viewers. Reports are being received now because following this morning's presentation of financial programs, the government's financial programme, the city of Reykjavík has grown weary. She did not trust herself to wait any longer on the funds that have been set aside if she did not agree that the government is serious about the big words. Reykjavík's financial resources are more likely to go to another sporting building. The final chapter of this restless history of the government must be written about its high - sounding statements, its promises, and its appendages. The nation needs national stadiums that depend on their names, and the nation needs a government that trusts in that assignment. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u28	Madam President. During a discussion about the President's conference board earlier, I was reminded of an answer at the highest level. A wood minister has drawn me for a very long time, one total of 290 days. As it turned out, I was reminded of the reports of a great investment campaign to start here last summer with the reference to the situation of the Covid epidemic, but of course we have seen a similar number of investments. It had not been months before the news of the campaign, so I'm here in a news report since December. Under the heading the government's investment campaign, there's a whip in their vision, just so I can take one example. There are countless comparable reports, both of bank analysts, of stakeholders, of industrial organizations, and of others, and all at the same source, that there are more conflictes in word than on table. All of this now has to do with, in one way or another, our life, and of course, now we see why. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson has not responded to these requests from me for 290 days, which are asked, with the permission of a president: What is the overall investment of the Vega program in recent road projects in 1999-2024, according to the proposed plan for the latter part? That's what I wanted to ask you to find out what the real effect is. I kept asking: What is the percentage of new investors in the roadtype of total government funds per year? The third question was: What is the proportion of new forwards in the road construction of GDP per year? I suspect the highest. A minister does not answer this request because the answer does not look good enough. This is not in any way consistent with the picture that is being drawn up in news reports of an investment conflict that will soon run out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u29	A respectable president. Along with news reports that were referring to the presentation of the government budget, there was another report with the headline: Priceitis has not been reported any further since 2010. Thus, prices have not been particularly good, and when you cross them, the forecasts of an analyst are not optimistic either. During the past few months, the cost of inflation has gone up considerably and is now about 6.7% on a yearly basis, and it is already a huge cost, as we know, for the public, who sees on the rising financial burden of his loans and is now enough for the last few weeks, the payment that is already too burdensome, especially when real prices have risen from all of this. We haven't seen this sort of thing since 2010. Bank diagnostics are predicting continued inflation. It accounts for a high rate of 7% inflation now in June, and for the rise in fuel prices and real estate markets, it is more likely to paint an even blacker form than the government dare acknowledge. It was noteworthy to hear a financial minister describe the inflation in Iceland. It would be smaller than abroad when the mortgage team was taken out, this home-made member of the Icelanders, who still encourages inflation. Things cannot be said as they are. In addition to this, a continuing debt collection that is deeply concerned is expected to continue until 2026 C.E., and the state funds will continue to be in place of 2027. Government funds are already one of the largest budgets, and they were, of course, better used than exactly what we see today. We need to realize that this image, this uncertainty that we live in, the rising prices, much higher growths, the inflation now in the highest heights for a long time, while we face a great uncertainty related to the colder agreements of autumn, is something that the government has to face and take seriously. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry that I don't see the seriousness of the financial program that we're going to discuss in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u30	A respectable president. The 24-year-old tax system, the social security system at 29. It is safe to say that many of these foundations of the Icelandic community are in their years. Some of us are older than members of the council sitting in here. All of them are to have the same in common since the last century. All of these are human systems, and not mutilated in stone. The society we live in has truly changed greatly at this time, but at the same time, little basic changes have occurred in these systems. They have been bandaged and transdermal with slight changes, which are rarely sufficiently effective in trying to work. At the same time, we hear the highest. Minister's terms after terms of the need to re-examine these systems. They make up committees that then produce ideas that are often more associated with the past than with the future. A respectable president. With the review of such systems, we generals need to develop better practice. We need to reevaluate these systems, work in which all stakeholders'viewpoint is taken into consideration, listen to studies of scholars, different political emphasis, and then find new and creative solutions to the challenges of building up a new and efficient system. For decades it seems that it was followed by an unwritten rule here at the General Assembly that the greater part of the government could not work together and listen to or support practical suggestions from each other. This is just one manifestation of politicians that does not work and greatly slow down essential social progress. [[The president calls.]] Yeah, I'm on top of it. President, our community demands that we manifest maturity and change the political process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u31	A respectable president. My name is Diljá, and I'm on my side. One of the major reasons why I am involved in politics, because I want to influence our community, is the effects of my addiction. During the weekend, a shocking interview was made in the media with a young man and his mother. The man has struggled with drug problems for half his life, and he is one of the many waiting for treatment, waiting for vital health care. While he is waiting, his family is the one who supports and cares for him, especially his mother. We who have endured this waiting with the patients, we who have not dared turn off our phone at night, we who have scrawled at the time of the knock on our door for fear of bad news, we know what this wait means. Hundreds of patients waiting for treatment, including thousands who stay awake and sleep over their destiny. Addictions are life - threatening diseases, and waiting for drug - related drugs after treatment can be a death sentence, waiting classes are long, and people, young people, lose their lives. They contradict the important change in social attitudes in which disease is to be treated within the medical system. So I call for more voices from here, more voices from officials who want to improve and strengthen treatments, who want the health system to deal with the drug problem. That's top priority. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u32	A respectable president. The importance of high school education is undisputed. We have seen its advantages, but there has certainly been a great challenge to the long - term learning of Covid's time. Teachers used technology to communicate their knowledge to students, and telecommunication has been greatly improved. It is vital that we provide the opportunity for all to study. Technology should be as useful as possible so that all can pursue a study that is convenient for them, regardless of their estate, family circumstances, or other factors that prevent them from attending. Then there are certain circumstances in which students are helped by technology that ensures that they do not miss out. A computer - based home test, electronic teaching classes, and recordings of lectures increase the availability of everyone to further their education. Students have rejoiced in the development of technology in the study, and their participation has greatly increased. Students who previously were unable to attend all classes and have a full share in the study can now do so on their own terms. The use of technology does not address the sharing of knowledge or the understanding of the students in the material. The experience in the pandemic has shown that technology has established that there is no basis for it to be used in the future for much benefit to students. Now that the time of Covid starts to pass, it is important that we do not take steps back in our previous situation. We are to continue on the road, encouraging the school authorities to continue using technology for the benefit of the school community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u33	President. V.E.G. The inside minister was on the radio, saying, with the permission of the President: Hopefully, the council will complete at some point, stop being in the slow motion it is in now that nothing is available. The government situation is basically with the council as a hostage in some kind of lawsuit and a meeting board. That is why I could look here when I was supposed to be downstairs at a council meeting, and I could constantly talk about something else, and all the cases were taken hostage. It's a bit of an interesting attitude at the highest. Ministers, for there is now even more of a number here at the council that takes over the program and they arrange matters so that governments enter their councils and are discussed and discussed, etc. But there is no search for the rest of the people who are in the assembly, nothing. Of course, it is our job to present ourselves here in the Generals' symposium and introduce matters to the council and to the nation, pointing to the faults we were not allowed to come to when they were being discussed before they arrived at the council. This is a natural democratic discussion. If the government groups are willing to negotiate how we can behave here, individual cases such as these shoals that have been pulled back, which we've already suggested are poor, maybe you can do something better here than we have to come up here because it can be spoken of in many areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But this is not done, and while it is not done, we need, of course, to do our democratic work and present our affairs to the people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u34	I want less of it. Congress is scheduled for a speech session under Presidential Summit is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u35	Madam President. I also heard the most incredible comments. Minister of wood yesterday morning. Of course, that is a false description. It is the administrative body that will administer the program here at the council. However, this statement also reflects the extreme intolerance of leaders in the forward category for political discussions in this hall, including the U.S.A. the matter of Congress from the government's advisers. During the last week, there was a very peculiar incident at the council. While members of the Parliament discussed the artist's bill, the minister of culture and trade walked through a council hall. It was both government and government opposers who participated in this discussion, which was only moderately long, I would say, um... Three hours. [[The president calls.]] Quite an excellent discussion that took place, but the highest. The minister of culture and trade was passing through a council hall some way, even complaining about a filancy of speech, feeling quite unscrupulous that it was discussing the matter she had proposed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u36	The President reminds me of why. It is only a minute of the president's meeting session, and it is not without reason that it is important to respect this rule. This is especially to ensure equality in the middle of the day. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u37	A respectable president. I just want to agree with the guys who came before. The ministers seem to be getting a little out of tune. I ask, "Why are they so out of shape, and why are they angry and frustrated because we want to talk about their situation? " I'd say if my case were in here: please talk about it. That's what I'm offering, just to get a discussion. But it seems that they are really pissed off that we are going to talk about them. I think they should be at work, too, because I asked a question in January, it's been over two months, and there's no answer. I think the Ministers should stop being in the media and complain that they are talking about their issues and that they are more involved in working and coming and discussing their affairs with us at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u38	Madam President. I agree with what has been discussed here that it is really awkward to hear the cry of the high voice of the high officials of the media and at the Senate Hall and at the council's hearing that this is a democratic debate. It is shocking to observe when ministers in the Iceland government, Ministers of the Agency, complain about a discussion on matters themselves on the agenda, complain that the government and the government council members are here for discussion. And for what reason did the head of the advance party now decide to complain that in the General Assembly, people are talking to each other? Yes, because he had to post his cab bill a second time because it was so ruined that he had to withdraw a previous bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is: It was not ruined.]] [[The president calls.]] It was just so he had to pull it back. This was shown in 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u39	Madam President. It's already fun. The minister of wood starts accusing the people of speech when we are maintaining political discussions for one or two or even three hours about matters that are even highly opinionated. This is the same man who participated in a lawsuit against the change in the 2013 Constitution of the year that lasted 16 hours for the year 1st. And 24 hours to 2nd. That's where we're talking about filibusters, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. That's what we're talking about. There's no such thing going on here. If anyone's holding the council hostage now, that's much more the Ministers. Today's program has a telecommunications bill. Third, this matter is being recommended. What kind of waste of time is that? Who's holding the council there hostage? Yes, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. He offered it twice. What about the cab bill? That's what we're discussing at the Third Parliament. That's what we're talking about for the fourth time because of the highest. The minister of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson is holding the council hostage by presenting the case twice, making a two-way recommendation at the same council. [[The president calls.]] This is U.S. record for the minister of the press, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u40	Madam President. It's a very pleasant discussion, important and very pleasant conversation. I'd kind of like to raise a question here because we've been discussing only this morning the expected consequences of this effect on the main committees, the result of which is literally pushing members out of committees, holding them, deliberately or unintentionally, all the way from this nonsense, from needed information and important meetings. Another manifestation is that these same members of Parliament, these same anti - generals, anti - general groups, who are unable to get access to the commission work, will discuss matters here in the district of 1st. Because it is their access to Congress, and in this way they carry out their assignment as elected representatives of the nation. I have this question because I know that among the management departments, it's just quite given to people, and I sincerely ask: What did you think would happen, what did you think the consequences would be? I can't believe the answer is: We thought we'd get away with this quiet and silent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u41	Madam President. Meanwhile, I discussed the need to review various laws. Here we are discussing legislation on one of the basic systems for the future, telecommunications. The hall is made up of two members of a three - member body of directors. V.E.G. A minister measuring for the bill has not been seen, and also reports that we are holding the council hostage. It's just that there's no interest in the members of the Commission or counsellors to come over here and talk about things, things that are fundamental to the future. Communication today lies at the foundation of all the developments that are taking place, and members of the board of directors are not even interested in discussing it, except for these two. Senators sitting here in the gym. But the question is, are they also at the Icelandic Championship in a silence that seems to be in the government sector? I think I'll let this do for now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u42	Madam President. The minister's workpattern is, in fact, amazing to see. Here they march in, one by one, with a case they've recommended in previous council, but they struggled to finish, make some shifts, update dates, and so forth, and then come here, measure the case, and are amazed that there's some debate about them. Of course, we're better than that acceptable, I think, at best. President. V.E.G. The minister of the seminars, chairman of the parish Party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, has been listed here in this conference board. I just have a deep respect for the internal issues discussed that make me feel that it is absolutely of little importance to participate in discussions about them, especially when there are fundamental changes in how the regulations of the people of this nation are organized. [[The president calls.]] I don't have the distaste of the debate with the members of the board, but the Ministers are very sensitive these days, which is strange. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u43	Madam President. Of course, this is an amazing situation. During the past two weeks, ministers have actually wasted the time of the council by presenting disproportionate cases that may be discussed for hours, but ministers are forced to withdraw because they were badly processed and not ready. We also spent many hours discussing some form of conversation with the elderly that it was called a long - term plan for health care. There is now a financial program that reveals that this document was some kind of joke because it's not going to be financed. Who's holding the council hostage? Who's kidding? Of course it's the Ministers who act like this. Here we contribute to the good things we can do, doing our best at the council until day and night. But then, in a hurry, ministers make fools of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u44	Madam President. She's a bit tired of this tendency at the highest. Enforcement Minister to blame the council for his own saucy tactics. This was held up by government officials for weeks because there was no political issue, and these issues are not necessarily complicated, waiting to be measured, and therefore they could have happened considerably earlier. Yesterday, the highest test. The Minister of Wood to blame Pirates for the fact that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter is not going to get involved in the delinquency of drug abuse, as she has promised for many more years. All of a sudden, we are responsible for our failure. After seven years of Pirata's work with it as a goal, after they themselves took our bill in this hall and said they were going to bring our own bill later, our work is to blame. This is a very strange approach to political responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u45	A respectable president. I think facts speak for themselves. I think the Ministers should just stop complaining and howling about us talking about things and thank us. We know about the Senate bill that the Department of Health took back. Why? Because they were not discussed with them. Nothing about us apart from us is the motto of disabled people, but it was meant to force a case that had never been submitted to those who were to be forced. Then we'll have the cab. We have communications. We have some issues we'll discuss here and ministers, where are they? Yes, in town, complaining that we are discussing their affairs. We want to talk about them well and carefully so that we discover such nonsense as they have been in them for them, and they can correct them. They should thank us for that. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u46	A respectable president. When I turned up on a budget board in the fall and was trying to understand the format of all these iPads that were put before us, I found it hard to understand a lot of them. In many cases, it was just: it's within the frame. And then I didn't know anything more and there was no discussion about it any more, it was just inside the frame. What frame? I'm just realizing that there's just some ancient remnant lying in those paws. I have now gone down to my offices and have been studying the financial program that has been set before us. I'm trying to gulp myself through it. I feel quite optimistic about the group that makes this point, and I'm not talking about the largest challenges and the largest adjustment to take place outside the terms of the season. So it's the next government to be responsible for all of this. We've been thinking about this psychology bill that finally came through, a donation, before New Year's, but I can't see it. [[The president calls.]] Next year, about 500 million are spoken of as having mental health problems, followed by 100 million a year. [[The president calls.]] But I don't see a letter on the psychology bill, and it's not even about 250 million that were already fixed on the budget bill this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u47	Madam President. I come from the mountains to discuss this discussion with the highest degree. Minister of wood. If we examine the program of the council, what does it look like? What were we doing here all day? We were on the program asking members of the Parliament for ministers. We have had a tasteful program of special discussions and programs on the side of the government. For what? There are no bills here from the government. The situation is no more complex than that. It would be interesting to hear the highest. The minister of the wood tells us what cases have been held hostage. What has that been? They're none. When I talk about being held hostage, I say that the forward party is a hostage of its own. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u48	A respectable president. This part of the program, the President's conference board, is provided with the permission of a president: ▪ When delegates ask for a comment at the President's conference board, they must turn their case to the president and have a word with him. The word "revealing " means that members of the council support this program, as well as the program, meeting times, and other formalities are subject to the appointment of the meeting. Under this team, conversation on the matter is not subject to subject talk. This is a discussion of shapes, not fabrics. ◯ Under this team, six and a half hours have been taken in March. I ask the President that there will be more detailed instructions for members of Congress on how to proceed with this program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u49	A respectable president. I sat down to a council yesterday, and I can tell you that this is an amazingly sad environment that I'm walking into. It is such a grief in my heart to enter this situation and see what is going on somehow behind the scenes. I've heard it in the discussion here so that people can handle things, but that most of the things are just agreeing, even friends out there, and so on. That's what you heard from the front. But these conditions are pathetic, and they are not available. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's hard to explain to my 17 - year - old daughter, who wants to know how the work here is, what's really happening, because I don't understand it. I hope everyone is looking for solutions to take advantage of this wonderful knowledge and people in this room who are working for the nation and risking this sandbox game. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u50	A respectable president. Now that we're here, I think, most of the people in politics and politics are more difficult to understand than others, and that's the politics of the forward party. Now, a senator on behalf of the advance party, the only spokesman for the government who has participated in this discussion, is coming here, saying directly or indirectly: Let's turn over this flag here, a respectable president. We're trying to call for information from this chair, we're calling for a hold on the government, and we're calling for cases from the government that'll allow themselves to go into town, interviews in the media or anywhere else, to bring up large and cortical statements on what they're going to do in the other and this; what they're going to do in hunting charges, what they're going to do with the banks. But when the politics are dragged into the hall, you can't ask the Minister. You'll find out that the Polish candidate party is nothing more than the Pótemkin tents. There's no content. It's just a group, because it doesn't make any sense what the advance team is saying in town. When we pull the politicians in, they say, "No, I didn't mean it like that, it wasn't supposed to be gay." [[The president calls.]] Shall we take one good example? Where is e.g. The national stadium in a new financial program? Don't mention it, it's not to be mentioned in here. [[The president calls.]] We who are elected to sit here, we have an obligation to provide the government, and if we have to do so under Presidential board, we will. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u51	Madam President. Well, maybe I'd like to carry on with it as long as possible. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, entered as regards the sensitivity of the forwarding party and the minister of the party. Of course, it is quite amazing to observe that the group that seemed to get everything he had an imagination to ask after the election's conclusion last autumn is so weak and vulnerable in times of trial. [[Take it up: a small flower.]] A little flower, a little delicate flower. This, of course, is quite affordable. The Ministry has been up to 2 billion in discharging to settle the move. It is the various issues that appear to be achieved by the class, both in the direction and direction of committees. The team seems to have been much more able to negotiate with the Independence Party and the Left Green than it does with the reality. How long will the independence party and the left of the green... swallow this silent, silent group? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u52	President. It's an amazing speech. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir thought here because this is exactly a discussion of the council's program; what the matter is being said at the council, what is being accused of being in need of speech? As I told you before, it's simply the more part that takes over the program and just puts its affairs on schedule. There will always be negotiations on all these matters so that the government situation can bring about some of its subjects as well. It is simply the policy of all the governments so far to any extent to dump them in the trash, they simply operate that way. Even when they are accepted, they do not enforce them, which is even more strange. When the government groups don't want to negotiate in front of them or in rooms or anywhere, the negotiations will, of course, be held in the General Public Meeting. Of course. [[The president calls.]] No one should be surprised. [[The president calls.]] That's how it works. When negotiations progress over which cases are handled and how they are done, there is no negotiation in the General Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It'll empty it out. That's very normal. [[The president calls.]] It's always happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u53	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are required to present this session for a period of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u54	The clock's broken.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u55	Madam President. Here, the debate began with us reviewing the trial of the hostage taker Sigurður Sigurður Jóhannsson, who throws up the big case all over again and again to the council, as if to shut down the program and then accuses us of being a painter. Since it did not appreciate the advance party, senator Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir arrives and urges a president to restrict the free speech of members of Congress. Where are we, Madam President? Let's just review the 1st discussion we've had in these last days. I see, for example. very much after the two hours that went into bringing the mind to Willum Þór Thor Þórsson about the application of forcedness, a bill that remained unchanged from the last donation, and it was clear to everyone that hand was unofficial. Yet he makes it a point. These are two hours that we could have used for something better. But no, the Ministers of the Refugee Party took that time into another. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u56	Madam President. A minute of business. I am among the senators who have the greatest respect for the Council and its role. Because I respect the Council, I want the General to do his job. The General Assembly is organized by 63 senators, all of whom have a role, not just members of the board. You know, when the members of the Annexe party come up here, like what? paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and complain that we're discussing material, but not formalities, I think that makes a pretty big truth about the business of the forward party in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u57	Madam President. It's amazing. We began our assembly in the fall, feeling that the greater part had no intention of listening to the smaller parts, believing in itself that he had no business to do with conversation and other matters. This disrespect, we see, continues to be here for weeks discussing a case that every person knows the government is not going to let anything further and wait for all the causes that were to begin picking up here from January. So when things finally come into this table -- and these are matters that we know the government intend to penetrate. Clearly, we want to talk about them. Clearly, these matters need to be adjusted. Clearly, they need to be examined, and this needs to be done with the smaller parts. The fact that the majority of groups are surprised that we want to discuss matters when there is no more consultation with our heads is really quite different.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u58	Madam President. I have to agree with the words of the Þorbjörg Sigmir Gunnlaugsdóttir, okay? A senator at the projection. I also have a deep respect for the Council and the role of the Parliament and this hall, which is actually a democracy seminar in Iceland. It is of great importance that the Council of the Council is organized as that temple, not as a government tip, as ministers have sadly allowed themselves to be ruled over more than four years ago. Sadly, their respect for the work being done here is very limited and sad. paritaprevir Hilda Jana Gísladóttir. How ministers and directors associate with the Allied Council of Iceland is a tragedy indeed. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u59	Madam President. Happily, trust in the United States has been increasing in recent times. I have to say, I've been sitting here listening to this conversation for a while, and I've thought it was a great idea, and now it's gotta be said. We may not normally be subject to this point of going through many parts of the world, but we are primarily talking about what we have to say. A senator of the forward party mentioned earlier. But okay, I can totally live under this, not a problem because of me. Of course, I am very kindly and obliged to come and thank you for that discussion. She's been very nice. I always like when you mention my party. Of course, he is a government officer, and he did an excellent job in the election in the fall and normal for the senators to succeed here, natural enough for them to mention what they feel can be done better. So I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u60	A respectable president. Here we go. paritaprevir The team of forwarders complained about how we used the new President's meeting board. But why would we have been in the conference board most of the time? Is it because a minister of justice has chosen to dishonor the council, to violate the law, and to direct the authority to its Subcommittee simply not to do a job that she is obliged to do in accordance with the civil rights laws? And that, without the fact that the president of the Generals was prepared to respond to some other than saying humm and h and that he is going to talk and give up. It's not fixed yet. This is certainly a topic, not a form, but a discussion about this assembly here. [[The president calls.]] This is a discussion that matters for us who are working here, and if there was any power in the President and in this part of the world, it wouldn't have to be that way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u61	A respectable president. When I came here and went into this council hall in the fall, I was awestruck, as it were. paritaprevir Hilda Jana Gísladóttir said so well before. What an honor it is to be at the High Council and to participate in molding our community! But I quickly learned that it was nothing just like it looked on the surface. They're buying horses back and forth, and they're making their way over you and somebody else. So you have to learn new tricks and just learn how to fuck because he's here. We're here to decorate our campaign with all kinds of things. I was so happy to see this success bill go through. But where is it? The rural communities were fully preparing for this. But what? Then they're just stuck in a drawer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u62	Madam President. V.E.G. The inside minister talks about the hostage taking the government position, but I'm just thinking, "What about the Ministers themselves? What about the fact that the Ministers of the Foreign Missions provide badly for the primes that record all the duration of the council? Now I'm talking about nicotine bill. It has vague terms for schools of education, vague answers to what constitutes flavors, no idea how strong the nicotine pads can be. All these are huge questions that the Ministry has no idea how to answer, but rather he gives a semi-completed bill that the council is supposed to sort out. Then ministers complain about 1st. the case took four hours. I don't understand any of these tactics, and I just don't understand anything at the Council right now. But I don't think responsibility is on the side of the board. I think it's exactly the government side and because of the prime projections the Ministers are offering.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u63	A respectable president. I am also a new senator, and as a result, I am also learning and amazed at various practices. Especially am I surprised by these general complaints. I think it's so rude, and I get a lot of questions, and here's only a few government members involved in a conversation. Because I'm coming up here under President's conference board, I guess I should've referred my words to him on how this council is being conducted. Then I'd just like to suggest that she joins in that we're also getting some cases in here, we're in a position of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u64	A respectable president. Many things have come out. I would like to underline that from the time I entered the 1999 Parliament, over 20 or 22 years ago, or what it is, it is still as exciting and as exciting to come into the conference, go up into the Pontu, and participate in discussions. It's always wonderful, though it seems a little strange, to handle a case because it's political. It's the politics that motivates us to extend and speak for walking in the EU, for having a stable currency, for justice in the community, by green society or by whatever we want to speak for each time. And then you can go to the dining room, as we've always been able to do and can still, and talk to each other. What I'm not used to is that I think I'm a different group of move than when I started. We're going to experience ministers who are faster than ever. [[The president calls.]] That, however, is a new reality to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u65	Madam President. I feel that there is reason to respond to a word. Halla The Signý of SisunnsdóttirKristjánsdóttir who came up here earlier and wanted to deny that we weren't discussing the President's conference board and what we're hearing. I'm gonna let myself disagree. What we are discussing here is the program of the council, what we are doing here in this council hall. Because they do not consult the smaller section in this regard, it is obvious that this is the case. As mentioned earlier, when the discussion is not taken at other levels, in our fine back rooms here, it is the only platform we have to have this conversation with the greater part. So I don't agree that we're not talking about a meeting government, we're really doing it. I agree that there should be no need, very much in agreement. But I think the more part knows how to solve the fact that we're spending less time in the conference board. Then I'd like to say to the highest. Secretary of the press regarding his comments, whether sometimes it is that many people will stay with me. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In 2012 the highest was held. The minister of wood talks at the President's conference board discussing the incineration of garbage in a Skaftár charge. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u66	Madam President. I'm impressed with the way the senators go to religion and tell us how long their years of work are involved. I'm gonna take part. I'm not that new, but it's only five, six years, but I'm also experiencing a new reality here. It hasn't been like the other years I've been working here, this wolf talk, this intolerance of the Polish government, I think it can be tanned. It's just that way. Now it's a call for us to fix this. Here, for a year's time, when people were realizing that sometimes people hurt others because they were uncomfortable at home - I wondered if the government might be uncomfortable at home and maybe she can look at it a little bit better, fix what needs to be done there, and then come into the councilroom and act like people. [[The president calls.]] Then we can continue to work for the sake of our country and our nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u67	Madam President. I want to say something. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríði Gunnlaugsdóttir for respect of the Council. In the past, confidence in the Generals was expressed. Two thirds of the nation do not trust the General. It was great to talk about the restoration of trust because ten years ago, it was a tenth of the people who did not trust us. It is important that we in this room stop talking to each other and start discussing things and sharing in the discussion, that we negotiate progress. At the top. A minister of wood who has begun to talk about filibusters, I would like to say: "We're just beginning to express our views. [[The president calls.]] He can only wait for Gísli to file a lawsuit because I have a family record of nine and a half hours I'm going to hit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u68	A respectable president. The best talk that's ever been given here under this team is from what happened. A senator named Hildur Jana Gísladóttir, and I understand so well what she said there, that she doesn't understand anything about it. There's nobody out there who doesn't understand anything about it, that's just the way it is. If we're going to talk about respect, then it must be that people need to understand only what we're doing. I'm not going to minimize the importance of this room as a seminar, quite important, and even important, that I didn't fully understand it when I first entered the council. But I certainly do realize that today. However, the seminar is about our discussing issues and sharing views on subjects that are on the agenda. Of course, the kind that happens here for an hour under the President's meeting board is not a exchange of opinions. It's not a seminar where we're realizing where the lines are in politics, what people's attitude is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-29-59.u69	Madam President. We're discussing telecommunication bill, a Senate document with the fun number 666. Let us hope that this figure has nothing to do with what the outcome of the matter will be. I hope we can make changes in communications laws, but it's important to make those changes in a good way, in a well thought and thought-of way, because communication has never been as important as it is now. Communication is essential and fundamental to the digital revolution of which our society is going through. Then it is important that, as I said earlier, the legal environment of communications and communications companies is updated in a well - thought - out manner. It's easy to take a footprint and get into trouble when it's as big as an important inside. I miss that there is no one here from the board to listen to the comments that I'm going to make about what needs to be considered more carefully in this bill and in this legal environment when working on the foundation for the digital revolution that we're going to have over the next few years and decades. It is by communication that they relate to a cross - border service. So we have become accustomed to any relationship in the world, at any time, and in a very easy way. That's different from what happened when I was a young boy that once a month called my uncle in Norway, who was there in college because it cost so much and was so hard, and, of course, had to order a phone call to go abroad. You're talking to a relative on the other side of the world in real time whenever you want to. It is a service not only across borders but also a service that goes through air, land, and law, and it is often difficult to grasp all the complexity of this service anywhere. I'd like to mean that, as if the electricity were the communications of one of the most important infrastructures and the base networks we have to hire here in Iceland. It is an infrastructure that provides us with a ministry that we rely on in our daily activities and games, but also in times of distress. This is services and infrastructures that create opportunities for innovation and to reverse the development we have experienced over the past few decades; provide opportunities for favourite words. Minister: job without location. Yeah, it's a lot of opportunities when we do it right. But this too can be dangerous. It is important for us to keep track of all laws in this area that we are performing counterrequisite measures at such dangers. And what is the danger? Yes, e.g. what has often been mentioned, the Internet Security. Like what? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned it just creates that communications companies are obliged to store data on all communications - just to store the data - a risk that someone can pick them up. We don't have to look far. A few years ago, this was exactly one of the telecommunications companies in this country, Vodafone, and it was discovered that there was much more data than just information about who called each. It was for example. Texts that had been sent and apparently caused some divorce when they discovered it. The Internet security, and I'll talk more about it afterwards, is one of the basic risks. We also need to think about this from time to time. You see, access to this service may vary according to age. Today, three - year - olds may play with iPhone, but we may have some grandparents or grandfathers who have not learned to make great use of this technology. We often talk about technology, and it is important that we do not forget the elderly, especially disabled and other groups, when it comes to technology. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that where you are important is the case with other members of the council. The availability of services is important; it is important at the speed of service. We also need to realize that some people can afford a ministry but others may not. We need to make sure that the biofuel is even. At the same time, we must not forget that we are small markets. We have only a few telecommunications companies in this country, and we actually have very few radio contests. Then it's a little difficult when some of the rules we're following are making out to huge countries. There we need to find this balance between the separation and the compatibility. I've found it interesting that abroad, for example, it is. large amounts of the production process, the delivery system and other equipment, are often associated very much with enterprises, since the cost of bringing diffuser systems up everywhere is high. There's been a little discussion here about 87th. The bill, the security of other sources. I was interested in reading a news story today on the Federal Radio on how Ericsson, a major part of our communication network is on, in bad cases, after its bribe was discovered in Iraq to help spread the cell phone network there, and we're talking about millions of dollars. We can view it this way that even though it is a Swedish company, there may be insufficient morals in it. We have also seen that our neighbors and uncles in Denmark allowed the U.S. intelligence agency to access the base of their mobile phone system. Although this article originally came in to make sure that the Chinese weren't spying too much, through the Huawei equipment, we may need to put a question mark on all sides. I would also like to point out that much is said about national security and activities related to national security in the bill. I considered it to be a great improvement if, in part, part of this bill, in whatever way it is done, in the Senate, there was a review of the national security section of it, and thus I find ways to make sure that we wear belts and shoulder ties, as someone has put it, in these cases. I want to go to a few chapters while I have time to do it, and I'll probably use my chance to come back into the platform and point out more things. It's interesting to me that in 13. The bill says: In the United States, resources are used under the control of the Icelandic government. The distribution of the times includes temporary authorization for conditional use, which does not result in direct possession rights or permanent rights of possession and provision. Wouldn't it be nice if those sentences were also in law on other resources? Then I'd like to go to 18. 3 mg. 18th par. has been referred to as authorization of terms of minimum time of frequency rights, as is the distribution of frequency rights. For the last 12 years, I've been working on communications in times of emergency around the world, and I missed that in the bill there was no law to allow the use of frequency and use of equipment in times of emergency to come from abroad. You see, on June 20, 2003, Iceland wrote under the Tampere Convention, which suggests that countries have the opportunity to deliver commuting equipment for emergency access to countries without having to pay them and without having to apply specifically for permission. It's not in the bill, but I would have liked to see someone look to it. I think the last article I can talk about right now, before I ask to get back to the rosary is 28. ... telecommunicationsal telecommunications. It says, by permission of the president: ◯Iasak ships, zeppelins and other vehicles must be equipped with a communication system that meets the requirements according to internationally approved... Now it's almost like with the books and schools. ▪ Do I have to have a communication device on my bike? Do I have to have it in my car? Perhaps a little better defined, and hopefully the committee will consider it. But just at the end, because a question came from before. A senator on the phone number 116 111, who is given a special parole officer in this room, but we've never heard of. This is used in Europe for what is called, with president's permission: Child Helpline International, but, unfortunately, it is not in progress here. I'm obviously done with my time, Madam President, and I'd like to get back on the rosary to finish my review of the bill. [[The president calls.]]
