ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u1	Borist has received a letter from Prosecutor Pier Porta of Halldóra Mogensen, 3th. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Today, then, at the World Council of 1st, a deputy of Pirata's district name, Linya Runn Rún Karim. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u2	The President has received a letter requesting every request to provide written answers to queries. It's from the Foreign Minister for a petition on the deck. 488, on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásunda Ásthildur Þórsdóttir. From the Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister for the trinkets. 487, on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásthildur Þóri Þórsdóttir, and on the inquiries of the icicle. 504, of the measures required to reduce the number of cars, from Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. From the Ministry of Education and Childfriends to inquire on the subject. 375, about adaptation of children to school, from Áshillda Þórsdóttir, and on the icicle. Forty-five9, of pay and for the achievement of athletes, of the Guðrún - fearing Hafsteinsdóttir Daughter. Finally, letters from the social and workforcer have been received on request every request to provide written answers to panel requests. 201, on the development of reforms in the State's Reconnaissance Reporting on Social Security and Social Security Status from Halldóra Mogensen, on the basis of this report. 204, about an increase in the average free money market from Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson on the icicle. 309, on the appeal of the Court's decision to calculate the calculation of special progressives, from the Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir, the Guindardóttir. 310, about less-than-improved agricultural restrictions from the Guðmundur of Kristinsson, the son of Kristins, on the icicle. 313, on the incidence of disability, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, to the threshing floor. 337, on the basis of cross-border diagnosis from Andrés Ingi Jónsson on the basis of the OddnýG. Harðardóttir-five, five, eight, five, eight, five, eight, five, five, five, six, five, five, six, five, five, six, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, six, six, six, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, five, six, five, five, five, Forty-eight, on how to interact with the price of interest and their registration, from the Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u3	To answer, financial and economic ministers, social and workforce ministers, environment, energy and climate ministers and health ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u4	A respectable president. It has been reported this morning that an environmental disaster occurred in the South Bank of Sufjöndjörður. A better look revealed that there is an engraved oil tank that has become a fire - old man and has begun to leak, and there were thousands of gallons of oil leaked into the ground. A similar environmental accident occurred at Hofsose 2019. What I'm wondering is whether it's the highest. The secretary of the environment is aware of this. It may be to wonder, then, how much of these oil barrels have become flammable and buried in many places around the country! There are several other locations where these tanks are known. In the case of South Africa, the fact is that these oil are being stored in there to be able to intervene and assist in swallowing people's homes because they lack energy, usually green electricity. I'd like to roll that over with the highest. Environment Minister, first of all, whether he is aware of what is going on far and wide throughout the country and whether there is something on the board that might speed up the fact that the inhabited earth with the need to burn oil for house warming, and otherwise it doesn't have to, and this is about to stop and these people getting green energy like the rest of us. And if so, where is that a matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and for bringing these matters to the attention. Of course, there is no need to have many comments about the fact that if oil leaks, it is a serious matter. A senator refers to it, and it is important that we be aware of it and, of course, are more likely to prevent it, since it happens. But for what reason? A senator mentions, which is a natural big issue, and I have called attention to this issue. General, it turns to the telecommunication system having to use oil to generate electricity for the settlements. Hv. A senator asked what was being done about it. One of the first things I set up in my time as a minister was a so-called electrical security group, which included... looking at these factors and offering suggestions in the following days or weeks. What we're looking at, people correctly pointed out, is not only about these telecommunicators but also about the fish farms, that they have come from a position in the waterlands. But, of course, it's not only that, but because the demand for green energy is greatly increased, and we would have had to take steps here and before to make sure that these issues are in a better position. Because of what? A senator asks where this case stands and when to expect something, I was just in a meeting with the Power Department this morning with an energy manager who told me what their situation was. We are expected to have specific suggestions on the issues involved. A senator referred to and asked for.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u6	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister knows first of all the seriousness, the environmental accidents that have occurred. Second, as I'm hearing from the South Valley, it's as much or less as a leak to the ocean as it was in the local population, when their environment was beginning to smell oil. I know that the life span of this tank was some 25 years earlier, and then some of the regulations in the previous year, 2017, reminds me, since life was actually made forever, all that had to be done had to be done regularly. It reminds me that three months after such a thickening in 2019, a tank just leaked Hofsose. So I'm just wondering if it's the highest. A minister is really willing to put his arms around this matter and prevent it, or if we need to start looking up at such things now, wide and wide around the country because these oil tanks have grown old, just passing fiery bars, everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u7	A respectable president. I just want to thank you again. A senator for bringing this matter to the attention. For this unique regulations as well as possible. A senator referred to it I do not know its contents, but as we do know, we cannot determine a life span, whether it is a tank or anything else, in the Regulation. If they are old and poor, there is a danger of leaking. So I'm just thinking that here's a very important thing that we need to look especially at, whether it's in the institutions that handle these cases or in the Ministry, and that's about to be done, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u8	Mr. President. V.E.G. A few days ago, a minister of justice called attention to the problem of the trust - seeking system in Iceland, which made it difficult for us to face a considerable number of refugees from Ukraine. It was right in my opinion at the highest. Minister and important at last to start a discussion about this, which has now been made several attempts to get the government to discuss without success. Yet, I felt that I was running from my feet in an interview at the highest level. Minister of the Revolution this morning, since he seemed primarily to be waiting for guidance from the management system on what were the next steps. V.E.G. However, a minister noted that last week some 200 hotel rooms had been rented by the National Institute of Iceland, and they were all full and well looked forward to an additional 200 who would quickly be rented. We heard in the news that in February of the month, there was the largest amount of shelters that have been here for a number of years, which is, of course, a result of the movement here. And this is before we react to the situation in Ukraine. That's why I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Is there any hope that the government will finally get a hold of these matters and that there will be lines of financial support for the trustees, and would be expected to support Iceland's countries near Ukraine, like Poland, who have already taken over a million refugees, especially to support them so that they will be better equipped to receive the refugees along with the people we welcome here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u9	A respectable president. Yes, there are many factors to consider in the affairs of refugees, refugees, and alien laws in a larger context. First, in this discussion, I'd like to mention that it is most unfortunate that the Council has not supplied the prime warnings, despite the rest of the legal committee's efforts at the council, to correct the points at hand. A senator points even. To this place, which has made the Icelandic hospice system somewhat different from that in many other parts of the region where the Dublin Protocol has been active. Here is a few delicate details that I know the Minister is going to suggest that we once again try to change by bringing a bill on that subject back into the council. Then, just about the situation that has come up now. It is totally unacceptable to me that we are here with several hundred people in Iceland who have received material treatment that has ended by not having the right to receive the status of the trustees in Iceland, so that we do not have international protection, but we do not leave the country because they refuse to take a vision, which is a prerequisite for us to return to the country they had last visited and to protect. The failure to cut this knot will cost the taxpayers over a billion a year. One billion goes on to support people we have given up with a refusal. This is an example of what we must agree to do when the Minister's bill enters the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u10	Mr. President. I can say things in the highest answers. Minister and it's important to bill the highest. A minister of justice may run out here, but the situation may not be as broad as possible to address. Yet, I am happy to hear the greatest response. Then I ask, " Can I expect some action according to the highest word? ' Minister? Because at the same time, this government has not been able to counter the bill that has been announced since the highest power. Minister of Justice, for the third time I think, put in a bill that goes in the opposite direction and advertises Iceland as its destination for those selling refugees. Already the situation is what she is in Ukraine, then, we must be in a position to accept people on the grounds of World War II when the United Nations refugee covenant was made. [[The president calls.]] But we also need to support the next Ukraine countries, Poland, and other lands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u11	A respectable president. I can say that it would be a good approach to think this way: What can we do to stand with those who feel the arrival of refugees from Ukraine? Here, Poland is mentioned in particular. I think, however, that in these days we need to ask ourselves, " How is our own system prepared to deal with an ever - increasing number of refugees, especially in view of the fact that this 44th par. The first act of the law, which means that it does not necessarily require the material treatment of the requests. Rather, it is those who are refugees from Ukraine in some way automatically accepted. We need to ask ourselves some questions related to the employment secrets, which are one of the priorities that we in this government have been willing to use, and I think that will be considered specifically in the Minister's bill. So before we start to ask ourselves, " What can we do in Poland? ' I think we have to ask ourselves, " What can we do here and now into our own system? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u12	A respectable president. The highest decision. Minister of Justice in the days to engage the 44. For refugees from Ukraine, a law on mass flights and may, in effect, speed up a court order so that people can get a permit in Iceland on the basis of the crisis that is going on in Ukraine. Now, of course, it is good to see that there are enough refugees from Ukraine, but I wondered a few things about this route to meet refugees. First, it focuses on protecting on the basis of this law that refugees do not allow for employment. It's something on the top of the court. Minister, granting unauthorized employment permit to be obtained on the basis of humanitarian grounds. This includes an individual's application for international protection, which is considerably stronger than the rights that refugees can receive, including longer living permits, more security, and professional rights. I wondered if this difference and approach were discussed between the highest level. Minister of Justice and the Supreme Court. Social and workforcer prior to making this decision and the consequences of this decision, which are expected to happen in the absence of a job permit here for some time, at least Three months it usually takes to get a job permit if the person gets the head of the employer to hire him and then wait for this period of time until the job permit is obtained. Meanwhile, these refugees are expected to be on the move of rural society. Is this the plan, Mr. Honorable President? Is that the plan for the highest level? A government not to grant employment permits to refugees from Ukraine, but to provide it with less protection than it is entitled to?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u13	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As I have said here before, as well as all government ministers, it is fundamental to our mind that Iceland is open to refugees from Ukraine. By the decision of the Minister of Justice to engage 44th. The foreigners, we are implementing our own will and will of the people of the United States, to welcome refugees from Ukraine. There is certainly a difference between going this way and each applying for international protection. We in the government wanted to accompany other European countries on a trip there decided to go, and it's the same way we're going now in Iceland. It will be simpler in many ways to welcome people in this way, it will take less time. We expect a great many, as far as we can tell from what is going on both in Ukraine, in neighboring countries, and in what is expected from the local authorities. So I think it's a good decision, to open your arms in this way because there's an open door for people, here they can come. It's not the government's plan that these people can't get jobs, I don't quite understand where that conclusion came from. A senator is coming. It is certainly so that people do not automatically get employment permits, and that is one of the suggestions we have been making in this government and come to pass. magazines in response to the highest possible response. The financial and economic minister here is one of the things we want to change. That's been explained for a long time. But there's no plan that these people can't get a job.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u14	A respectable president. I'm beginning to conclude this from the current legal environment in Iceland today, but not from any degree as to whether this government is going to make a case that has, I believe, four times, was rejected by the Council. This is not because of the simple change to the highest degree. A minister points to what is found there but to any other inhuman step that is in that bill, hiding it. in taking very important rights from refugees in Iceland that we don't support. There's only another discussion. We have certain laws that are in force and the laws that are being applied now make those who are not entitled to a job permit unless specifically applied, require a professional driver who is prepared to give them a job and wait for the three months it takes to win that report. And as long as people don't have the right to be supported by the government, except by local societies. Therefore, I ask whether there is a right for people to rely on rural society in terms of advancement or whether a minister is going to take some action himself or to do something other than this, because this is not the best protection for refugees from Ukraine. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u15	V.E.G. President. Well, I'm surprised to find out. A senator should not rejoice over the decision to activate for the first time in Article 44. a foreigner who opens our arms to people who are in dire need in Ukraine
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u16	One year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u17	Yes, one year and then they can be extended. In my mind, it is most enjoyable that we have decided to open our arms to the people who are in great need, and these words go on. A senator just surprises me. It's not government policy that these people should not be able to get work here. Of course, the legal environment may be better, so that there would be spontaneous employment licenses for humanitarian licenses, as in this case. There's something to fix, and I hope it can be done. These people who come in this way will have all the same rights as other refugees except when it comes to the rights of the social security system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u18	Mr. President. It's been 100 days since government development. In the first 100 days, the tracks tell a lot about the route and the urgency of the situation. A health - care minister enjoyed not needing time to analyze the situation. She was lying. She was bad. I'd like to ask a minister about the status of the people waiting for health care in view of the land hospital situation. Our local hospital has a repeated emergency, and this has consequences for hospital staff. We know the stories of the pressure there. I ask: What has a minister done to meet this in the first 100 days of his office? We also know the consequences of the situation at a land hospital for people in the hospital service. We know the waiting list after so - called selective measures that in human language simply mean that people are not exactly at risk in the wait if a procedure is delayed, but the wait affects people's well - being, quality of life, employment, and community involvement. And so, Mr. President, waiting for analysis. Granted, this waiting period does not formally form a waiting list, but it does have the same serious consequences for those who need health care. I want answers from the highest. Minister, clear answers to what he has done to meet this situation in his first 100 days at the health minister's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u19	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson for these questions. It refers to the theory about 100 days and, yes, I've been able to identify the situation. When we talk about waiting status, it is clear that the epidemic has virtually slowed down all measures. I've called for a waiting list from the Land Hospital to have the situation in terms of what has happened in relation to the procedures that all equalize when things are normal, we can tell you what coolness we have to go through. This waiting list is now in place for all operations, and we are identifying this with a good group of hospital members and health insurance and others who can take action but can't do some operations, I mention certain cardiac procedures. However, joint replacement operations can be performed and more measures can be performed. I've put special emphasis on endometrial migration and other measures, eyestone surgery has been building up. It is obvious that we need to put forth great effort to work on these lists and to get into a normal state of living in them. At the same time, we need to achieve much more cooperation in the whole system, regardless of the field in which one operates in cooperation with the hospital, where the main weight is so that people will not have to put up with more waiting than is acceptable in each case according to each cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I'd like to point out that a new president of the Land Hospital did not complain about Covid's accepting the job. Rather, he spoke of the need to define the role of the hospital and that it would not necessarily be possible for him to do all the work he does now, such as if it were an introduction to the next 100 days' work. But I would like to ask about the supposed health care support that the previous government health minister was late tired of beating his chest. The fact is, the figures speak differently. They show that there was increased funding for health care, accompanied by the transfer of projects there, but nothing went on to strengthen basic health care services. That's where the funding got together. I would like to ask: Is the Minister's vision of the advanced health care provider taking money to that end, calling it a strengthening aid to the health care unit, or can we expect to have a real supply of health care during the next 100 days?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u21	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for these good questions and talk about the 100-day theory, maybe it's the most blinky subject that's going to be given a lot of discussion here at the council. As to the role of the hospital, I'd like to say that it has been very good for me to hire a new director, and this I would say with full respect to those who were temporarily in charge, who truly have the heart in the right place for the hospital. We have discussed some of the hospital's role and part of it in the bill to get control of the hospital in support of those serving there. For health care, there's a team of workers that I set up to reexamine the algorithm. When we are talking about the strength of the health care facility, we see that a part of that increase has passed the model, and we need to examine because I believe that it should be equal, totally independent of the management method, and that all are to be involved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are two members of this group that I stressed to ensure a review of the algorithm so that we can secure both transparency and equality through this model.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u22	V.E.G. President. I come up here to ask the highest. A health secretary to the information I read in the latest issue of the medical journal, which tells the cancer club director and describes his disappointment in response to a government offer of some 450 million people. K. a donation to the hospital so that a new facility can be prepared for the cancer patient's day department. But the department is, as most know, long crack and patient and staff facilities and bad people. For example, a few years ago the cancer club went to the Land Hospital and asked them to describe what they would spend the money if the most urgent problem was to be solved. The hospital's idea, and hopefully still, according to my sources, is to use the K building so called on a circuit that has lasted for three decades. With changes in the existing housing, a department could be placed at the second floor, where medication is taken, and a walk in the other floor where interviews are conducted. And, of course, there would have to be an elevatorhouse in the building. It can also be read in the medical journal that head doctors of the blood medicine and medical treatments of LSH agree with the Commission of the Cancer Society and say that the situation is completely unacceptable. Unstableness creates all kinds of problems that make treatment more expensive than it needs to be. So the cancer community is prepared to contribute a third of the amount estimated to cost the K building. President. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why has the minister failed to respond to a generous offer offered by the cancer club? How long should cancer patients wait for adequate facilities for vital treatment?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u23	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a test of the Þórunn's Sveinbjarnardóttir daughter's mind for that question. I know about this. Hv. A senator here claims that the minister has not responded, and that is wrong. I've had a meeting with the Cancer Society, and I've been discussing this with the director of the hospital. You're right. A member of the body says that there is a positive result of this contribution by the cancer community because the building is cracked. The doctors I've had a conversation with are also very into this and that something needs to be done. We need to let the hospital do this. Now we're in a building on a big house that we call a treatment core. We have two units who hold on to this huge task called NLSH, which is a control group, and then an NLSH ohf. The hospital has been on the sideline regarding the design of the project, and it is time for this to happen. This assignment seems to me to have been traced, and I have talked to the hospital director that we need to start changing the administrations for this process at this point in order to design the infrastructure, linking with other buildings, and that the hospital and the cancer society will take a direct discussion on how this funds will be most important. Hv. A senator walks into this department, walking services, that's right. I think it's a very respectable act of the cancer group, and I think, based on the voices I hear at the hospital, we're supposed to take advantage of this opportunity. However, we need to do so in connection with the construction and overall development of all other buildings. [[The president calls.]] I can name the building that's holding the mental ward.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u24	V.E.G. President. I knew that the highest. A minister would have met with representatives of the Cancer Society, but what is not available is the answer to the main meeting of the cancer club held last spring. It is true that we are on a huge project that is the building of the new Hospital. But I refuse to believe that the scope of that task is in this way and the management board is so heavy that you cannot respond to the offer of a cancer society, which is actually based on the ideals of the Land Hospital itself and the priorities of the Land Hospital itself. They are not entirely new because this work began some years ago. So I would like a minister to appreciate that his position is taken on the offer and that the government takes on the task of making a day department and a walking department so that it is a decent and progressive service to severely ill people in cancer treatment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's discussion on this subject, which I told the previous year, is very dignified. I'm just taking this as a good incentive to continue leading this case, so there's a question about how we use this positive contribution. It seems to me that all the conversations I've had in this case can be very useful. This is about 1.5 billion in comparison to the ideas that exist, so this is a third of this contribution. I hope we can use this to strengthen and improve the walking department and day - long service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u26	A respectable president. The national electricity security has recently been under way in connection with national energy status, energy exchange and potential energy shortage. It is important that we do not fall asleep further on the threat of electronic security, especially in the country. Electric energy output security is fundamental in the structure of society and in the current electrical transport system, energy security varies somewhat from farm to farm and is particularly bad in many parts of the country. Its priorities are important, but we hear too many stories about the fact that the backup force is, unfortunately, widespread in paralytic activity. In February the last year, we were again reminded of the limitations of reserve power in the West Sea when the landnet transport system and the reserve power were damaged, only to meet 45% of the need, as was known. The national network has been informed of this serious situation but has not yet responded. In Western countries there is a demand for priority energy over 11 MW, a total of 5 MW reserves. It does not take a mathematician to see that this account does not work out, and it is obvious that improvement is needed. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister, Guðlaug of Þór Þórðarson: Is he aware of the situation, and is it scheduled to take some steps or actions to ensure reserve in the Western Islands? What has been the conversation of a Minister with Landsnet in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. It's a big deal that turns on the electricity of our Icelanders. Ever since I've been inside the Ministry, I've put the emphasis on the fact that we're taking steps to deal with the present problems and also the future challenges because they are very, very, very, very, very big, including Because of our ambitious climate plans. One of the first things I did was to set up an electrical safety team to examine these factors. Hv. A senator referred to the Western Islands, but this is not just the Western Islands; this is true of other places in the country. Likewise, it will be introduced tomorrow, the result of a green book that will be appreciated and taken out on this matter, including taking into account our challenges in climate matters for the goals we have set out. The mayor of the Western Islands called my attention to these matters soon after I took up office, and the next day I called both Landsnet representatives and Land activations on these issues, but I do not control either company. On the other hand, I made a memo on the case in the government in the beginning of February. The good news is, things are developing in the right direction. In fact, I had a meeting with the mayor of the Western Islands about this case just hours ago because it's a situation we don't want to settle with, either in the West Island or anywhere else. That's why it's the most important thing. We need to think about that for a short time, but then we too need to look at the big picture, for we are going to achieve very ambitious goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u28	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to hear of a meeting of Ministers with Mayor now a few hours ago, and I want to thank the chief. A minister for a clear and clear answer and also rejoices at the ambition of a minister in handling these matters, for it is of utmost importance to us Iceland that we are outstanding in energy exchange and climate. V.E.G. A minister points out that we have ambitious goals in climates, and this is a huge part of it. Other than that, I thank the highest. Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator again for the inquiry and its comments here in the public address. I thought why. A senator is able to frame his reply later that we Icelanders have good experience with energy exchange. We went here first and made sure that we had green electricity and then we had a heating system. We've taken two energy exchanges that made our living standard much better, both in the environment and in the economic situation and in the pursuit of our competitiveness. Today, we have set out very ambitious goals when it comes to the third energy exchange, which, of course, are an enormous part of our goals in climate change. I hope we can have a good conversation about this at the council, but the main thing is that we're going to be successful for the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u30	President. I found my way on the table a little bit serious. It appears that the procedure of the Council that is published on the II Parliamentis website is not approved by a prime committee. I'm going to let members of the Parliament think about how serious this is. During the summer session of the Presidency Committee during the last term, it was considered that new protocols for the WCCS agreed to send them to members of the council to comment on a specific date, but the rules of action themselves were never agreed. There was no meeting of the prime committee after this summer meeting to agree with the convention program, which explains how the procedure procedures should be sent to a panel for review. There is no approved prime committee for the current Council of Regular Committees, as it is carried out. This results in very serious consequences for a lot of things here at the council. [[The president calls.]] I want a president's opinion on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u31	The President will thank the tip and see how this can be done or how this case is being developed. The president was not on the last prime committee, like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear and may not know the very beginning, but it will certainly be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u32	A respectable president. I support this case, but I have to say, when it came to us on the Foreign Affairs Committee, I expected a lot more enthusiasm. I expected the many opportunities that would have been new. It was declared by the former government that there were many and a great number of parishes in Bgreit. We don't see it here in this deal. If anything, Iceland's position is less relaxed after this contract than when the British were in the European Union. Also, I would have liked to see further analyses of interest values, including the type of industry offered in view of the fishing industry and agriculture. Thus, I would have liked to see much larger and greater steps in relation to all the promises made for several years. But under the circumstances today, I still think it's right to accept this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u33	Mr. President. Sadly, it was not surprising that when the head of the Independence Party was asked about the situation in Ukraine in unsubstantiated inquiries to talk about anything related to a case in Iceland's status of refugees, he said it was very sad that the General didn't approve of a prime report as one of the Party's Justice Ministers after another has set it up here to have a human right to escape people. But he said there's a relief and a reform and that bill would soon run out. Then came a social and employment minister and said that the Ukrainian refugees didn't have a work permit in this country was something to fix and he hoped he could be done. How to fix this, Mr. President? Yes, with the foul bill of Justice. In other words, refugees from Ukraine are to be used as sugar pills to swallow the filth. That's where the Minister showed the cards. I would like to direct it to a respectable president to use himself for another solution. You see, there is a topic on the welfare committee bill, which is only about the permission of refugees, 201th case sem Arndís Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir. [[The president calls.]] I'm directed to the President that he will take the initiative that this case comes from a committee to a council and we don't need to see the sordid defamation of the Minister of Justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u34	The president reminds the speakers not only to watch their words but also to respect the lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u35	A respectable president. I'm coming up here to say the word with the rest. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson to speed up a matter further that can solve the problem we are looking forward to today, which is that employment permits does not come with a human-interest license. But this is now one of the most important things I pointed out. A social and employment minister has, and he saw himself afraid to wonder if there was anything wrong with that. Enough about that. That the Minister of Justice wants to come through a bill that denies basic human rights to refugees, such as they can trust health care professionals that they are dealing with just to a minimum, as prisoners can trust the health care professionals they deal with, so that people from Ukraine can get spontaneous employment permits rather than being put on the edge of rural society, I feel pretty bad options, so that they don't get any deeper in the years, just rather unpleasant. So I also suggest a bill. Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's daughter of Gunnarsdóttir's daughter about this simple change will be put first in order to handle this matter without giving us some practical option.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u36	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in the multi property law, No. 26/1994 (monkey Keep). With me on the bill, we have a group of Stockholm people, okay? Councilmen Ásundur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Kristinsson Insson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Tómas A. Tómasson. A bill report says, with permission from the President: The 151st legislative Council was proposed but failed to succeed and is now submitted to the same effect. From earliest times, pets have followed man. Iceland has always been an expensive friend, spending much time on pets. In spite of this, laws over the years have limited the rights of pet owners, many of them deeply troubled. With the turn of 1900 C.E., society changed rapidly, and people moved to more urban areas. Many took pets from the countryside, and as the population grew, such animals grew to urban areas. In 1924, there was a ban on dogs in Reykjavík. The ban was designed to stem the slag disease and to reduce the number of stray dogs on the streets of the city. During the decades that followed, the authorities were busy getting dogs organized, and in the mid - 1950's, dogs were rarely sighted in the streets of Reykjavík. It is old and new that it is easier said than done to eliminate a prohibition. It was not until the 1980's, therefore, that there were exceptions to the ban in Reykjavík so that people could apply for permission to keep a dog. Then, in 2006, dogs were reimbursed in Reykjavík. The bank in Reykjavík is far from an example, but there are certain restrictions on dog and cat maintenance in urban areas here. Fortunately, in recent decades the trend has been positive, and today dog and cat maintenance is generally permitted. One of the main barriers to dog owners in Iceland is property law. Based on these, it is necessary to achieve approval of a greater proportion of campers for dogs and cats. Most of the time, conditions were more severe and needed the approval of all owners. In 2010, Guðbjartur Hannesson, social and insurance minister, proposed a bill for a change in multi holding laws that included a review of the law on dogs and cats. No change in consent rules was required, and the main emphasis was set on guide dogs. The General General Hjörvar Helgi proposed a change to the bill that included the lower threshold of consent, i.e. the approval of two-thirds of the apartment owners would need to be done instead of all of them' approval. His proposal was accepted. It is of interest to consider the vote because members of Congress did not vote according to party lines and the three senators who voted for a convention from three different council groups. This suggests that they made votes according to their own convictions rather than a group of predominantly cathetic ideals on the boundaries of their home and property rights. The rule of increased parts was a big step, yet it puts a rock in the way of many. It is often very difficult to get approval of 2/3 parts of the apartment owners for dogs or cats. The pet owners who need to move often find themselves in trouble when it comes to getting the approval of their neighbors. Then there are difficult choices. Either they have to accept a home they do not care for or dispose of their pet. This is not only a restriction in pet owners'rights but also the discrimination and access to their privacy and independence. The nature of this is that poor people who have no choice of living in a house or an apartment with special means of living are most likely to suffer. The approval of other apartment owners does not need to be met when the apartment has special access, but if the packaging of the stairways divides, it is necessary to gain approval of 2/3 parts of the owners. It seems that there is only a need for consent because of a pet's migration of stairs in partnership. As a consequence, it may be expected that the rule would be intended to protect the interests of those who are allergic to dogs or cats, or who have a phobia, and to prevent contamination in the community. Nevertheless, it can be assumed that other factors have a major impact on neighbors'decision whether to agree to dogs or cats. Nothing prevents them from rejecting such things according to their own desires. This has resulted in new apartments being used for short - term renting. The owners of such apartments are often opposed to pets. In this way they have the authority to prevent people from keeping a dog or cat in a marquee that they do not live in but only to care for their own interests at the expense of the local population. There is reason to pay particular attention to what follows, by permission of the president: A community can forbid animal control if it causes other people to be severely troubled, disturbed, or disturbed, and the owner refuses to remedy it. So I say, it doesn't have to be accepted for other pets or anything like that. When I gave this bill at the last legislature, which was the last year, it actually seemed to be a widespread misunderstanding in people - even people living in their own home and caring for this particular matter, not at all, and they didn't have any special interests in caring for what it was about to prevent a person from keeping a pet in the house of his own estate - to say it and really think that this bill is in their conditional rights of all apartments to keep a dog or a cat. That's not so, Mr. Honorable President. Of course not. Of course, if the appropriate dog owner or cat owner is uninhabited and confined to farms with other people, the housemate has complete clearance according to this bill to ban dog maintenance by this owner. Then the owner will kindly remove or remove himself along the way. It's as simple as that. It's always kind of sad when someone is making something of something that isn't there. In this case, efforts are being made to meet people who are less wealthy and who cannot afford to live in a special home but have special access to keep pets. Very many adults who live alone, generally, have little dog or little partner whom they want to have with them, and this gives them amazing satisfaction. I think that we should come together and take into consideration one another, show love in action, and do not lead without cause, for there is nothing in this bill that prevents an alien animal owner from making such changes in his behavior or removing the animal. He gets an interview, and if he doesn't repeat it, it's in the power of the house club, the management of the house, to get a clear message to him: sorry, you can't keep a dog here, unfortunately, you can't keep a cat here because it's not available with you. I'm just gonna sit back and ask myself to hear the continued noise of being here is a stringy bill that gives the green light that whoever he is and whatever he is doing can keep a dog or a cat. It's not. A respectable president. All I need to say about this is that it really is important that we show consideration for one another and do these things in kindness and respect. In fact, it took 78 years to allow dog support in Reykjavík. Let's not wait another 78 years to allow dog and cat service in the real estate. The bill is simple in format and includes changes in the terms of the multi- property building that deal with dog and cat maintenance. Honorable President, I refer this bill to why. Business committee. At least I'll direct it to the highest. A president where he can get it to the right place if I'm confused. It does not change the fact that this is nothing more than a good bill. This is to prevent discrimination. This is so that we are not repeatedly discriminated against because of our economic situation. In fact, it is a crazy society that means people, much less people who are lonely, to keep pets with them, especially when the bill assumes that they are good and done with respect to other residents. So many were words.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u37	A respectable president. I'm going to start by thanking the President for giving me the right way to the previous case. Such help is absolutely priceless. Now I recommend a bill to correct a fish control law. With me on the case, there's a problem. The members of Flokki's People Lovehilda Lóa Thorsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Year's Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. Actually, I intend to refer only to the report on the case, which says that this case was previously presented at the Council of 150th and 151rd. So this is the third time I recommend this matter of righteousness. It can be said that this issue, as it is now laid out, continues to be in the 151th legislature, has become a very difficult way for the bill to go. paritaprevir The people's gang, the Eyjólfur of Ármannsson, has been one of the conflicts of Floki, a free hand hunt. The evidence is, in fact, completely clear on the issue of employment freedom, and there is no threat to the environment around the country of catching fish on a hook or hook. There were two reviews about the bill at the 150th legislature. Hook's Coastal Fishing Association declared support for the bill and called for further changes in the coastal fishing system. However, the marine community expressed concern about the subject of the bill, believing that the system was unchanged to ensure effective coastal fishing. Let's see. On the one hand, it's those people who want to catch this beach and catch a hook, and it's those who are here with flotches and trolls and suck up almost every fish in their path, and it doesn't seem enough that they really scrap up more and less the fish around the country. The bill is now submitted for the third time, as I said earlier, and is the subject unchanged, except for a validation. The bill suggests that there will be an elimination of coastal fishing regulations in the laws on the management of fish fish that set out the criteria not to engage in fishing Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and that a minister can by regulations prohibit coastal fishing on common holidays. Is it not remarkable that you are assigned 12 days a month, 48 days over the Coastal Fishing Period, 48 days out of 365 days a year, but you don't even get to choose your own days? There's a law like that in a single word. It's not enough for you to be put in a straitjacket and limited to the rest of your life and you walled up in some routine that's so crazy it doesn't take any talking, it's confusing that if you can't take the water because of the weather during the rest of the week, they'll just fall down. Are you going to bring them with you? No, you don't get it. So you don't have 48 days? No, you don't get it. I'm sorry, fine sailor, but you missed that Monday or Tuesday or Wednesday or Thursday that you had from choosing. It was such a boring weather, so you just put the cup in your arms to no, you miss it. Thank you. These fishing is accompanied by significant declines in ports and upcoming incomes in the country during the summer season, but the last two coastal season has failed to fully dispense the resources of coastal fishing. What we're looking at now, however, is that it was one of the first works of a new fishing minister to cut down clearances to shore fishing some 1,500 tons, thank you. These over 10,200 tons of unscrupulous bottom fish that were previously allowed have now fallen to some 8,500 tons. In fact, it is more painful than tears to see how the very structure that has no harmful activity is repeatedly hidden and obvious can in no way harm life around the country. When we put on this control in the fishing road at the time, the foundation was, in fact, that it was trying to protect the fish stocks around the country and that they needed this protection, even though it did not really return a single ton of the ten years that have passed since this control was placed on our country's common resource. So I'm saying that when you start to cut into the beach fishing as you're doing now, you're actually going to be completely quiet, just wordsless, because you know that there's whole and half of the room around the country that's been squeezed down almost every spark of life. We've just been letting these settlements bleed to death without proper footprints. We wanted to see something recent in this article. We wanted to see young men, and women can go fishing on a hook. It's just that it's become so strict and bad that you don't even have the courage to go out to the pier to catch a bump on a hook. A respectable president. The small boatmen, the beach fishermen, are not missing any of those 48 days here. Here they themselves choose when they will go and pick up the sea during this period, the four - month period during which these 48 days often refer to some Olympic fishing, and so on, when the system offers to move toward the sea almost any other way. This is exactly the way it has current laws. This is precisely so that our little boat sailors do not lose those days, although few days are assigned to them, they try to pick up the sea these days, even though it is just a cry. It's as simple as that. Thus, not only are we unfair, unjust, and completely confused about how to steer this system but we are creating a tremendous risk for these sailors. We're putting them at risk. So I'm just saying, a respectable president: I'm referring this matter to why. Work committees and I hope I don't have to recommend it one more time. I'd like to state that this is a puzzle plan because a group of people want free hand fishing. We believe that this will be the basis for improved habitats and flourishing settlements in our TVs around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u38	A respectable president. This bill for the treatment of coastal fishing is, in fact, amazing, that we have to measure the matter over and over again. It is incomprehensible that a government that can impose such an historic legal proposal. It is a attendance of small boats for hand fishing and strange that laws should be made that they may go out to catch only Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays. It would probably be possible to place just as unscrupulous laws that farmers should never fight but on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, not after the weather, but just after days, they would have to do so well. I don't think anyone would ever think of making those laws except, of course, the government that has kept those laws. It tells itself that this matter should probably be taken care of. It is probably because they respect those who do this fishing work that they have the right to use these 12 days as they please, for weather and wind, and not for any government, in an effort to reduce their ability to pursue this hunt. As we have seen, it is surprising that if they cannot, by weather or otherwise, use these days, they fall down dead. It's kind of far beyond anything you can expect to have that kind of law. I'm here for the whole thing. As we have made it clear, free hand fishing is the only thing that makes any sense if we are going to try to save the coastal areas and let the people enjoy this. We must realize that there are people in the country who have the fish in the sea, not a few chosen individuals who have been able to buy up the entire island. It is the people who live in these areas who are expected to have the right to go out on their shores or into their next environment to hunt, especially at hand. It has been shown, mentioned in our last discussion, that free hand - to - hand fishing is an eco-friendly hunt. This has also been turning directly to the market of about 90%, so it's positive in every way. Unfortunately, the government seems to want things to be negative, so she doesn't want to give hand-fishers free, as if it were, and also wants to see that the people who practice seamanry can't pick the days that suit them, but the government wants them to go to take a certain day that is completely ridiculous and ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u39	A respectable president. I'm proud to be a co-sponsor of this bill to legalize a change in fish control law. As indicated in Article 1. makes the bill a 1st count. 6 mg. Section 6. a in the Code on Fishing Control, but he states that fishing is forbidden on Friday, Saturday and Sunday and that a minister is authorized by regulations to forbid coastal fishing on common holidays. Here is a goal that really has no meaning unless it tries to prevent beach fishermen from pursuing their jobs. The first carrier of this case mentioned the Olympic Fishing. If anything leads to an Olympic hunt, it's the current limit this week. As soon as they've allowed fishing in those days too, when the sailors get to choose the days they decide to go out, we have a much better system. The people's party supports all freedom, all that leads to greater freedom in the present system, all of it. There is no grammatical evidence to forbid fishing Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. Why not ban them on Thursdays, Saturdays, Sundays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Tuesdays? There is nothing to say that hunting should be banned these days of the week. With regard to the limitation, there are natural limits to fishing in the coastal fishing system. I'll take the example of the weather and the hand rolls don't threaten fish plants, they just don't. Hunting a fish on a towel roll is not a threat to fish stocks. A hook's ability is simply so that a fish has to bite. It's an environmental fishing industry. It's the most environmentally worthy fishing there is. The boat sails for engine power in the hunting trail, it's off the engines, and then the hand rolls are electric rolls. Environmental fishing cannot be found in any way. I recommended a bill here last week about free hand fishing. Of course, the ultimate goal is that coastal fishing will be given free to further the land's settlements. This is the site of the marine settlements, the habitats of the country's settlements, and people on the land, and much of the rights of the scattered areas. It's human rights. The UN Human Rights Committee has already been held in 2007, saying that the present fishing system is in violation of human rights, in violation of the equality of the citizens. Government Responses to That Decision included: to establish the current coastal fishing system. I consider it a system in effect that is not in force enough government response to this United Nations decision to violate equality. And why is that? Yes, it is because it is too few days, 12 days a month, and it is only four months a year, 48 days a year. This allows much room for the fishing, and families cannot live on this. No one can live on the basis of year - to - year fishing. The releases placed in the beach fishing pool are far too low. Now, a left - green ocean minister is in power. His first act of office was what? Yes, they were cutting down markets in the coastal fishing system about 1,500 tons. In my district, candidates in the left green went through the district, and one of the main struggles in the Northwestern economy was to promote the coastal fishing, that was to promote the coastal areas. And what happens? Yes, they are some 1,500 tons. This is of utmost importance, but of no consequence, it is of no consequence to the protection of fish stocks on the land. We are catching over 220,000 tons of cod, and 1,500 tons of cod is less than 1%, much less than 1%. Thus, present - day governments oppose the present system. They don't want the great coast weather, they don't want to build it up. It's quite arranged, and it doesn't matter that they before the election said they'd be supporting the beach fishing. It's settled that the Ministers of the Left Green aren't doing it. And the European Union does not view coastal fishing as a real business. They've just said, under the bill for law, that it's not a real job. It's completely black in white. This system is on the verge of promoting the coastal fishing, but we will certainly continue to fight for it. This little bill of beach-fishers being able to hunt every day of the week, or at least Today's Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays also serve as a source of freedom and to further this system even if it is not a small one. It is very important that this fight continues. All I believe is that this bill receives a good bill and a good hearing on the job board, and it becomes a law for the summer, so beach fishermen can also provide on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays when they choose to hunt and when the weather permits. There is no grammatical evidence to support the conclusion of this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u40	A respectable president. Here I recommend a bill to correct the change in personal protection and the processing of personal information, the law on consumer loans and home loans to consumers, financial information about individuals. With me on the case, there's a problem. The members of Flock's people, Áshildur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Yearly Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. In chapter I of the bill, there is a change in the personality protection laws and the processing of personal information, No. 90/2018, but 1 5. The word of the law goes on, along with the headline: ▪ Exploitation of information relating to financial issues and credit to individuals. Exploitation of information on financial issues and credit to individuals, including underscription and the preparation of credit tools, in order to communicate them to others, is prohibited. Two. Il. chapter 5 of the bill shows a change in consumer loans law, No. 33/2013: ◯ At 1st. 10th par. The law will add a new sentence, as follows: The information on consumer defaults should not be taken into account because of a certain requirement, if the list has been unscheduled. In the 3rd. III. section of the bill is a change in home loans law to consumers, No. 118/2016: We're at 7 mg. Twenty-two. The law will add a new sentence, as follows: The information on consumer defaults should not be taken into account because of a certain requirement, if the list has been unscheduled. In Comb 4. it simply says that these laws already come into force. According to one report, the bill was submitted to a Council of 150, but it did not succeed. Three comments came about the bill at the last legislature, from the National Economic Institutes, Creditinfo, and Peritoneal Protection. The domestic economist group declared support for the bill, but now hold on to a dignified president, who is surprised to know that Creditinfo declared his opposition. Why should this be so? I'll just leave it to you and stay here for a little while, and then I'll trot it down a little bit more. While personal protection did not take sides on the subject of the bill, it was noted that there was an opinion on the subject of the bill. It is naturally in our power to find out where the matter is in the protection of the Persians. We used a new personal protection law that has required a tremendous amount of effort and money to implement. Personal protection has become such, so you can hardly call your child in any way that you do not show a social security number and send a photo of them. It's really crazy that people are being set up so badly, as it turns out, here with this member, Creditinfo, who has one member of his type legal authority to sell our personal information, on our budget, to our third party. Access to borrowing is the basic prerequisite for getting people out of the clutches of poverty. Finally, if people are able to get out of the tenet and get their own real estate, they will have the means to acquire property. Instead of paying rent, people pay loans, which in many cases are even lower than rents for similar housing, often much lower. Not everyone has the same amount of credit. The consumers have to pass credit and credit before creditors lend them credit. According to the credit assessment, regular income evaluations and the planned expenses of the borrower will be made to determine the individual's means of payment. The credit rating is even. Based on the business history of a party between or data from financial and credit databases. It's like an espionage spy's mind, a respectable president, is that way in the year 2022. It is remarkable that we, who are always talking about personal protection and struggling to secure personal protection, should really be offering such an offer. People who even have a lot of money, maybe tens of millions, even hundreds of millions, but because somewhere along the way, they've gone bankrupt or got into a list, it just goes out completely, thank you. There's no way they can borrow. No, my friend, you've taken a dissociation file, thank you. Creditinfo has already shown that you are not a town to borrow. We can't count on you with your hundreds of millions to pay in 20 million. K. Well, you know, you know, you know, you just don't wanna talk about it. Reports are constantly coming from people who cannot borrow from credit institutions because of the result of credit ratings. Many people are granted credit because of my ability to pay, as I was pointing out, and without a loan. People often get an explanation that because a third person has given them a low grade, the loan office cannot lend them credit. Such a score is a so-called character profile. It is also worth saying that I don't know how many belts and how many shoulder ties and buoyancy and oxygen tanks to put on borrowers, that's just something else. We can't borrow, not even from our own pension fund, since we've been legalized to pay a pension fund and have certain rights to borrow, mortgage, thank you. Then you're betting on your property. That's enough, isn't it? Is it not enough that you really submit to the most precious thing you are trying to acquire, which is the roof you are trying to raise over your head? What do these people need? What more do these creditors need? After their last economic collapse, what did they take of thousands of homes, and what did they do with the loans? Buy them off the hook, but knock them in 100%. Have received much, much, back what they had previously lent because they are always protected in everything. But the fact that one company on the market can work with and waltz around with personal information about us and our financial status and prevent us from getting a roof over our heads and preventing us from paying 250,000,300,000 bucks. a month on rent, you may be paying $ 170,000 $180,000. A loan - it's amazing that one company is actually doing such information and sharing it to a third party and getting a lot of money for. It's just a business, a respectable president, a clean, smart biseth, where they roll billions of dollars a year. That's not fair. It's unfair, and we in the Gang members of the people believe it's a clean, clear violation of the Human Protection Act. It is time for Persian protection to begin to point out where this matter rests in their affairs. How is it that Persian protection is granting this party free access to us consumers without actually bringing as much as a single amount of time or comment as to how unfair it is? I'd like to tell a little story, a respectable president, just like this at the end. I'm not going to read the whole report, I'm just telling everyone that this case can be found in the general council.is, on our web, which is very accessible, and I encourage people to study our website better because it's fun to wander about it. There are political parties. There we can choose the members of Congress, where we can look at what they have been doing and what they have accomplished and how they are doing at work. I would love to direct you to that. But the saddest part of this is how people have been affected. There are young people, very many and even those who have been in the habit and had to finance their next dose, and these are the people who and even only youths who have just stolen to text and borrow. They borrow small loans with natural loans of all its horrors and abuses and should have been completely dressed for all such things, since there is nothing but a yoke on top and really destructive to all those who fall into that trap. Then there are even individuals who have had credit cards and are tempted to buy their children clothes for Christmas and take them on a certain row, as it says, and then do not have the ball volume to pay up the Visa debt, simply because they're the poorest people in the country. There are always the poorest individuals who have most of the crowns between their hands, referred to the most expensive means of survival. That's Iceland today. One young woman was trying to buy an inexpensive apartment in the country for herself and her little boy. She had paid off all her debts to creditors or credit card companies. No, she didn't get any payment. No, you know, you've been on a register and you should wait another year, maybe four more years. You have to hang out and wait for another four years because we think you're a rather risky option for borrowers to lend because you haven't stood up for your pedic 100%. It is not enough that the person has made his table white and clean and has paid his debts. No, he has to wait longer, and there's something to prove that he's going to stand his place in the future. It's a choice that's wondering where I don't quite understand. Anyway. I challenge Peritoneal Protection to do so well and study the Personal Protection Act, and at the same time, I challenge them to cancel the warrants of Creditinfo to have information on our financial resources and to sell them to third parties. Finally, the highest. Mr President, I suggest that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u41	President. When discussing those who have a legal record, it is good to remember that there are thousands, if not tens of thousands of people, on a list for reasons they were not at fault, such as. Because of the circumstances that occurred after the last collapse. These were people who were merely guilty of trying to get a roof over their heads. This is where all the premiums fall, and everything around it goes down. It's playing in a playground that it didn't control itself, a playground that others created, and went wildly about. The same, however, did not come on the register; they were canceled. Normal people who were not at fault with the situation had a problem, and some of them have not been able to get back from there, simply because they do not have the opportunity to do so. These are not groups of people who have been so risky and who have gone so indiscriminately that they cannot be dealt with and therefore cannot be lent. They are people who have often faced uncontrollable circumstances - whether bank collapse, disease, or accident or whatever else - some kind of failure has occurred in their lives. What we need to do as a nation is to help people to get back up, not to place fences everywhere that prevent them from returning to life. There are constantly reports of people who can't get payment, e.g. to get into one's own home or something like that, even if it has been rented for years. There is also another factor to mention, in terms of what happened after a crash, and in many cases the loans were simply illegal, and the only defense was in fact not to pay, as absurdly as it sounds, because if you pay, you've already accepted the loan that's not legal. This is a complication that is referred to in the New World Translation as 'Collins of the Holy Scriptures. ' We need to create a system where people can rise again. Besides, it's completely unacceptable that a patent file is in the hands of a private agent like Creditinfo. It would be much easier for the banks to take a little responsibility for their creditors instead of always referring to a third person that no one can ever approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u42	A respectable president. I just want to come up here and support this bill with a whole mind. This is a big bill, and we have to watch that there's a big crowd of people making money. It's about having people pay private companies for information that the banks themselves should have. They're supposed to make sure that those who have been their clients for many years do not need third party information about whether they can be on loans to buy an apartment, because in most cases, when people are shopping, they're trying to get out of the rent. Getting a loan, an apartment loan, maybe paying a hundred thousand bucks. a month and out of rent of $200,000, $250,000 or 300,000 dollars. In a month it is just common sense, not something that should be referred to some payment assessment that someone has previously experienced illness, accidents, or somehow landed on a temporary divorce list, since it seems that it is very difficult to get out of this blessed failure file when you have access to it at any other time. I'm asking, as we've already seen, "Where's the personal protection?" Is it not time for the Persian Protection to take over this case and stop this illegal activity because it is absolutely incorruption to allow the private people to make a fortune in this matter? I'm just saying, hopefully it'll go through, and we'll stop this insolence that's going on there once and for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u43	A respectable president. It's nice to come up here for a change. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize social aid laws, No. 99/2007, about car strength. With me on the bill is why. The members of Flock's people, Áshildur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Kristinsson Insson, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson's son, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. In 1st. The bill says: Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. The law says: It is permitted to pay sensibilities and disability pensioners and microenergy donors supplementation due to the purchase of a car as an reformer is essential because of motor inhibition. At that time, it is permitted to provide supplementation for the prospective motion - related victims of child care. Physical disability involves a disease or disability that impairs the ability to get to its destination, so that walking without help is usually less than 400 yards [400 m] flat. Accumulation is only allowed when the following conditions are met: 1st The motor disaster itself has the right to drive or another family member or personal assistant who works under the contract for the user-controlled personal help, cr. Laws about serving those who are disabled with long - term needs. 2. Assessment of motor impairment is available. The financial improvement is as follows: 1st 450,000. to those who meet the above conditions. 2. 900,000 bucks. to those who meet the above conditions and are buying the first car. The price of a car should not be less than the sum of a donation when appropriate, taking into account the reduced tax. It is permitted to give every five years for the same person. If information on price prices is available, it is permitted to make a payoff before leaving purchased vehicles. And why would this come? It's because there's a little bit of trouble with getting a scholarship to buy cars but being poor, just having no way of blowing the crowns on the table, paying the car, getting the receipt and going to get the scholarship. This is actually starting backwards, since, as indicated here, it should be enough to have the purchase and other items and arrange for the person to use the strength to pay for the car he is buying. But there's always money hanging around, people think everybody's cheating on the system. But it's just not. If a person is applying for a car - buy strength, it is now 99.99 percent that he intends to use it accurately. This has caused many great problems, and I speak in knowledge. I know people who have really been struggling to make use of this strength to buy cars. An old man who has a woman's motion problem said, "We can't finance this, we can't pay for it unless we get the scholarship first. So it is extremely important to expect that in the bill. And it goes: It is permitted to pay sensibilities to sensibilities and microenergy donors to suit the costs of driving if reformers are required to have a car due to motor impairment. The monthly sum of the remuneration is to be done at a rate of 20,000. The addition to the cost of driving is only allowed when the following conditions are met: 1st The motor disaster itself has the right to drive or another family member or personal assistant who works under the contract for the user-controlled personal help, cr. Laws about serving those who are disabled with long - term needs. 2. Assessment of motor impairment is available. Before remuneration for the costs of car equipment is paid, the information on obtaining a car should be provided. It is required that the motor vehicle or its mate be registered to the owner of the car or that the car be owned on a long - term job rent. Usually, only one supplement for buying a car or one at a time is allowed. 10th par. a and a 10th parr. b to buy a car. In certain cases, however, if there is more than one motorized child who lives in the same family and who lives in the same home, it is permitted to provide supplementary or strength for those who are able to buy one car. You see, a respectable president has been shocked that parents have been in trouble, even parents with two disabled children. It has really had to force him to try to get benefits for this family in order to care for the needs of his child, to meet the needs of his children, and to travel together. I am not going to, more dignified President, continue to read from the law itself but to refer only to the report. I recommended this bill at the 151st legislature. The bill is now remanded unchanged. Shortly after the bill was submitted to the 151rd legislative Council, a minister made long - awaited changes in car - related reforms and car - related reinforcements. In many ways these rules are improved but do not go as far as the bill in certain cases, e.g. ... money. In addition, it is important to secure the rights of the law, as experience has shown that the Ministers can, on a small scale, reduce rights by changing regulations. People who are determined to have the same human rights as others do. Laws and regulations should ensure human rights. Motivation is required to enjoy freedom of movement just as much as others do. Social assistance laws contain laws that deal with the strength to buy motor vehicles. That law covers a minister's further implementation of almost all conditions for such support. On the basis of Article 10. legal on social assistance is required in the terms of Regulation, No. 905/2021, which deals more closely with car strengths and conditions for their refreshments. On the basis of the Regulation, for example, you can apply for automotive supplementation due to motor impairment, to $360, or to a car to buy for car use because of severe motor inhibition, to sum 1,440,000 bucks, or a scholarship to purchase specialized automobiles that can study up to 6,000,000 dollars. It has been difficult for many to apply for such strength because of the harsh conditions they face for their well - being. As an example of the strictness of the requirements, it is noted that on the basis of previous regulations, a insurance agency does not provide the strength to those using a walker frame because the Regulation clearly defined motor inhibition as an individual's activity, e.g. confined to a wheelchair and/or used two crutches regularly. The new Regulation contains the same definition. This project has been under way despite the doctors'tips and motion pressure that a person who regularly uses a walkers has the same degree of mobility as people using two crutches - and actually more because very many of those who use walkers do not trust in the use of crutches at all, just not. Another example of inflexibility is a rule in the older regulation against selling a car until five years after saving. This often caused problems when there was a need for a new car. When poor people get the strength to buy a car, buying a new car is not an option. It is well - known that there is a great difference in the performance of cars. I'm not going to continue here unless I'm going to point out that what we're also saying in the bill is to connect these bills with an index. This Regulation, set up in 2009 and amounted to 300,000 dollars. - It's now in 3 60,000. A respectable president. It is sad how the majority of the worst in society, a group of disabled people, and what the State is to do to strengthen and protect that group, have been in a masquerade, and has been in the grips of the handstorm and of the rape inhibitors all over the world. People who need it are not even indexed, so even if their cars have risen by millions during this period, it doesn't matter. A fine microloaf and a motorised person who's entitled to this, you'd better buy yourself a wheelbarrow. Is that it? Is that the message, Mr. Honorable President? It is of no importance that we show the dignity, to the social groups that really need our help, that we at least indexes connect the amount of money they are barely dosed, as in this case 13 years ago. I hope that this case will be handled well, because it will not put a trust fund on its side, that's pretty clear. I suggest that the case be referred to. The welfare committee and she really put their arms around it and we'll be back in the council as soon as possible so we can accept the bill and help the people we all hope to help.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u44	A respectable president. This bill on social assistance, automobile strength, is a very necessary bill and, in fact, another bill we're presenting, which shows that the government really needs to pull up the pants in these cases. To her shame, she has treated people who really need help buying cars. There are some numbers that are then not updated but that are lost, allowing fewer and fewer ones to take advantage of these provisions. We must realize that the recent yield, e.g. Here in the capital area, there is no way to expect that people who are in wheelchairs or on crutches or with walkers can benefit from public transportation. It is only dangerous for these people to go out just because they have sleeks and snow, so it is necessary to make sure that those who really need a car are in need of this possibility. In particular, we need to take into account both the successes and the electrical activity of cars and the need to make sure that those who want to buy an eco-friendly car can do so. This bill is the best, and hopefully something will have to be done about these matters because in itself it is part of the legal agreement made by the United Nations on matters that are disabled. If so, it would not be possible to act as if the government had been doing for years and decades, allowing such matters to run out in front of us. The help they really need is not enough to do anything. Besides, once they've finally got even a car, they'll have to have it for five years, even an old car that requires much maintenance, so that's the best of it and I hope they'll be accepted, but unfortunately, that hope is probably not enough, but hopefully the government will see the light and do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u45	A meeting is a meeting arrangement for the discussion, and there has been a session divided among members of the assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u46	Madam President. This is the second time in less than a week that is being announced for special discussions here at the General Assembly on the scary situation in Ukraine. This time I asked myself to present a verbal report to the council. Is it my resolve to do my best to make sure that a world of Congress regularly has the opportunity to have a conversation about world history and shocking events now taking place in Ukraine? In addition, I would like to emphasize that the Ministry provides the government, the State Department of State, the Congress and other institutions and the general public with all the information possible. I will continue to take the initiative in such information and simply consider it a successful way to contribute to a successful state. Most of us have likely experienced quite a shock as news of Russian troops crossing the Ukraine border. The warning was given, but most would not believe that the Russian team and preparations at the Ukraine's eastern border and in the Crimea along with the so - called military training of the Russian Army in Belarus would have the sole purpose of preparing a long - standing invasion of a sovereign state, Ukraine. The Russian President's repeated and intense declarations that an invasion was by no means possible were found to be a great deal of deception. In view of the limitations of his words so far, it must be dangerous to assume that his goals are different from complete control over Ukraine. The world is in some way in the grip of one man or a relatively small group around one man. With each passing day since the unscrupulous invasion of Russia in Ukraine, the tragic consequences of war become clearer. Reports of a cheerful attack on nuclear power plants, a temporary betrayal of promises so that civilians can escape surrounding cities and attack civil targets in Ukraine, including medical institutions, are arduous confirmation of the fierceness of Russia's war effort. Then there are the grim threats of Pútín's use of nuclear weapons. One and a half million people at least has already fled Ukraine, and it is expected that as many as 46.5 million will take refuge in neighboring nations. News today that Russia has published that Iceland is now defined as a hostile state. Not all of this is unexpected, but the effect of the declaration is not fully understood, but the associations on that list are not bad. President. The Icelandic government is determined to contribute to an emergency and has already been determined to contribute at least 300 million. K. to assist with the United Nations institutions and the Red Cross. It has been decided to support economic emergency aid to the Ukrainian government through the International Bank of 65 million. K. a donation. Along with supporting humanitarian assistance at the border, Iceland welcomes refugees from Ukraine and is preparing for refugees in various fields. The relief efforts of the nation of Israel are immensely great, and governments have the desire to help them to develop the best, most beneficial way of life. At present, financial support for the public is the most beneficial way to help and meet the plight of the Ukrainian people. All agree that the Russian President's war effort is far different and worse than he had planned. It also turns out that the world's reaction is far more powerful than the Russian president expected. Things in Russia are getting worse. Russian governments are becoming ever more isolated internationally. When votes were paid at the UN General Assembly last week, only Belarus, Eritrea, North Korea, and Syria, who along with Russia, chose against a decree that condemned the invasion. In various international activities, Russians have already been affected by involvement or their right to participate. In this political isolation, business pressure is being added which appears to be biting. News of thousands of Protestant arrests in Russia and extreme offenses against the civil rights of the common people involve some hope of resistance, but they are also disturbing. In effect, freedom of speech has been removed, and even freedom of thought has been eliminated. The conduct of the Russian government is not merely a complete disregard for human life; it is a direct vote for the worldwide system. Here, not only is the fate of the Ukrainian nation at stake but it is the order established after World War II, which is based on respect for international law, human rights, and the weekend of international established boundaries and legal history. All these actions against Russia are very serious. The political excommunication that reaches culture, education, and sports life is painful for all who have had good and productive cooperation with Russian colleagues and friends. Of course, economic isolation can take the lives of the average Russian citizens we have no quarrel with. None of this is minor, and it is my sincere hope that Russia can immediately return to the society of the nations, but in order that it can be done nothing more than a complete reversal in the national policy of government in which all conflicts against Ukraine and other countries would immediately be stopped and troops would be restored. Last Friday, I attended the minister of foreign affairs at the Atlantic Community, including the United States of America. was for discussion of the government's pleas for ground bans around Ukraine. What a difficult discussion that is! All of us wish that such bans could be carried out without conflict. The cold reality, however, is that such a curfew is likely to involve an inevitable direct conflict between the Air Forces of countries involved in the Atlantic Alliance and the Russians. At this point, most people have a balanced view that such things are simply too risky. As with Icelanders, we are well aware of the biggest burden we have in resisting Russian attack, but it is a pleasure to experience the unification in Iceland. We observe the development in Ukraine and are in horror at what is taking place, but we also look with admiration at the courage of the Ukrainian people. Courage is limited in the world, so it is often confused with foolishness and pride. It is only when real courage is tested, and real courage is not a product of pride or decorating. When faced with a real challenge of courage, it is brought forth in a spirit of folly and ill - necessaryness. In the Ukrainian and its president, we find that the virtue that is next to courage is humility. President Zelenskí spoke humbly when he accepted his office in May 2019. Then he did not know what would happen to him and to his people. In his talk when he accepted his office, he specifically addressed Ukrainian officials and even spoke. to them, with President's permission: I would like to have you not post a photo of me in your office. No pictures like that. The president is not an icon or an idol. The president isn't a portrait on a wall either. Rather, put pictures of your children on the wall, look into their eyes before making decisions. Those words are spoken before the war began. The world would no doubt be better if others made it their custom to face the future before making momentous decisions. We've heard Zelenskí's desperate call for help this weekend. There is a man who fights for his people and for the right cause. All of us wanted to do more. We want to do what we can, and that's what we will do. It is our duty to the Ukrainian nation that has been subjected to unprovoked and subterranean attack. It is our duty to our friends and alliances who also stand with Ukraine. It is our duty to the ideals that we believe in in a good society in which democracy, liberty, and human rights exist. It is our duty to ourselves not to yield when we and our efforts are needed. We are a nation among nations. This involves responsibilities that we should fulfill with tenderness, responsibilities, and the utmost seriousness, and especially with humility. We must not let ourselves be left behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u47	Madam President. We have witnessed a shameful attack, an invasion of the Russian government in Ukraine, for almost two weeks, and unfortunately, there is little evidence that this disaster will be brought to its end. It is good, though, to see that Europe and our alliances have been intervening in targeted measures as well as classes here at the General Assembly, for it is important that the nations that represent democracy and freedom stay together. Then there is reason to give the highest commendation. Foreign Minister for its firm declarations and thank you for good information flows. Pútín's plans are hard to grasp, but history teaches us that we can expect most of that direction, while he threatened the use of weapons of mass destruction at the beginning of the war. And while this war is fought between two countries, it is much like their personal affairs, especially when an attacker so aggressively walks on the other person's rights. But then the illegal invasion has also had a far beyond borders in Ukraine and will have a broad impact, especially on the security and protection issues of the coming decades. First, of course, the most difficult to see is the loss of life, suffering, and destruction that the Ukrainian nation has faced, and it is tragic that millions of people are forced to leave their homes in confusion. Already the war has caused more refugees in Europe than have been reported since World War II. This is what we Icelanders need to do in a far more powerful way than we have already done, not only to receive refugees but also to assist neighboring Ukraine. Moldova is, for example. among the countries that have opened their borders. There are two and a half million people there, but by now 250,000 Ukraine has fled there, 10% of the nation. Second, many countries, including our friends people, experience a measure of legitimate and normal insecurity. These include the Baltic and some of the North. New polls show, for example. that there has become a major part of the international union in both Sweden and Finland, which, of course, contains its own history. Third, let us not forget the Russians who are at home and who are opposed to the invasion, but now they are being oppressed or even arrested by their own governments, and of course not by the Russians who live abroad, even schoolchildren who face intolerable prejudice. But on the fourth and final, let us remember that we Icelanders will not leave our battles alone. Though our lives may not be threatened, the population and home will certainly feel worse economic conditions. We Icelanders also have much to do with peace and to use our main exports in foreign affairs, the struggle for freedom, equality, and equality. The Ukraine invasion has already become a major influence on Western foreign politics. It is likely that we will see much more emphasis on safety and protection in European foreign policy. Countries such as Germany have changed the course and have added 100 billion euros to the country's defense. More nations now want Europe to give greater emphasis to peace and to a strong common foreign policy and national defence. Of course, we have a good backland with our involvement in NATO, but these events must encourage us rather than discourage us from entering the Member States. It is not just a matter of economic stability and a better currency but, above all, when it comes to great and precious matters, such as the fight against climate threat and the world's freedom and peace. Madam President. There is, of course, a wish to reach treaties that lead to peace, but unfortunately, there are many indications that it is only hard to see what the basis of the agreement is, for Pútín's claims that he is disarmed and that he declares that the future will be neutral, of course, is both unacceptable and unscrupulous. Ukraine is an independent state with its own personal rights and an established border that must be respected and not a few should understand it better than a small country like Iceland. So it is likely that for some more time, these wars could develop in a way that we have seen in Afghanistan. Though Pútín takes key cities and can land on patch control, there will no doubt be many years of fighting there in cities in Europe's second largest country, I think. In this direction, Pútín will probably come, and as a result, he likely predicts that such a war will reduce the team's survival, will become unpopular at home, which could tempt him to attack with even bigger and more perfect weapons that would lead to much destruction and, of course, the gross loss of civilians to a far greater extent than we have even seen today. And sad to say, these two staged images that we face are just two different forms of hell for the Ukrainian people. Therefore, it is important that NATO and EU and other countries all look for ways to bring an end to this unsurpassed invasion, although it is not that the war is spreading faster or more, but it has now done with the inevitable consequences for all of us. Therefore, our primary concern now is not whether we need to act in the next few days or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u48	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of State for her good business here and agree with others who have expressed themselves earlier today at a meeting with her and the Ministry. It has been held in a responsible way over these matters, and it is important how these matters are maintained. We know that long before Covid and long before this war, there has been some deterioration in health in Iceland. There is no meaningful explanation, but anxiety and spiritual discomfort are widespread here, and the use of antipsychotics is more pronounced than around us and is increasing. There is no doubt that health has continued to worsen on these present - day news reports, and the anxieties of people are increasing. But we're here to review these matters on the foreign matter committee and we went, we went. Councilmen Bjarni Jónsson, chairman of the Committee, and Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson at the CASEK Conference in Paris last week, in which climate and other matters were being discussed. As a result, Stígur were a Stefánsson of the Committee. Of course, it was quite clear and anticipated that the attention to the advertised program was shifted from the points presented and addressed, and, of course, there were people from many parts of Europe. Even though the British are no longer in the European Union, they were there. Whatever we think of it, there is a difference of opinion about how dramatic the European Union can be or has been in this context, and rather than talking about European Union, it was sort of a European capitalist. There was a fairly dense harmony with the nations, and if it is a European community, it will likely lead to the world's solidarity, as most people considered the cradle of democracies and exemplary social organization. That's even where it came from. to discuss in what ways we, each nation for himself, can become the best of aid, and I think we are doing quite everything right. We're sending money, and I think we should store up in public and even collect on more things if we can join to help this country in trouble. We are members of NATO, and we are responsible for the defense union, which, of course, is a military alliance, whether we like it or not. In 1949, as all of us know, the political mount points focused on this coalition, which was strongly protested here. We have a government in which the point party that leads the Ministry of Presidency is opposed to our membership in NATO and has refused to enter. So we have the face of the government, which is a peaceful woman and women are generally not motivated by the same folly as the testosterone - driven aggression that draws the males in general to take the beating, capture the prey, or lose their lives. The female is more responsible and peaceful at home with her babies and protects her home, and I think it's a good idea that we have women in positions of responsibility, both at the Ministry of Directors and at the State Department of State, and we think of our own Vigdís, Finnbogadóttir. I think orcs are a bit of an idea that this area is about to rebuild a military base and rebuild an army in Iceland. As a result, I was shocked to learn that there was about to be a 1,500 - apartment building on Central Island in connection with the military establishment. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it true that we are already building apartments for foreign soldiers in Iceland after they greeted us some 17 years ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u49	The President would like to remind you that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u50	A respectable president. During these last days, we Icelanders have watched Pútín's progress in the invasion of Russia in Ukraine with anguish. Once again, Russia has violated international law, and the cruelty and crime prescribed by Pútín in Ukraine will never be forgotten. But it is not Pútín, who has had our whole minds but the Ukrainian people. The fighting, courage, and strength that it has shown in indescribable situations motivates us to avoid giving up, neither. For the first time in a long time, the international situation is focused on Iceland. There was simply war coming in Europe, so there would be no weather on the front page of the Icelandic newspapers for another day. It's a good thing that Icelanders come back to life on this matter, that now it is clear to everyone how fortunate we are to be in NATO, the world's strongest defense alliance, and, in addition, a defense agreement with the United States. Ukraine would like to be in that position, and the Baltic States now owe its existence to its membership in NATO. This has become evident to everyone after listening to the dreams of the day and the explanations of Pútín, and in all the last days, the eyes of the Icelanders have been opened. There was a change in policy for the Germans who decided to send the Ukrainians weapons and equipment from their own stocks. Sweden's historical neutrality was violated by sending them weapons, and Switzerland too. Some nations have blessed their citizens to go to Ukraine and fight alongside their local inhabitants, including the U.S.A. Checks and Danir. The Ukrainian army had called for acts of support by means of man - made efforts to resist the invasion. Rarely or never has there been a greater need for a total solidarity of democracies who reject Russia's invasion into a sovereign state. The message is that a violation of international law will not be tolerated, and few nations will have more to do with it than with Iceland. But there is something else that has brought our peaceful part of the world up from a mere sleep. You see, we've fallen asleep on our guard. We've both been too aggressive and we've been on the other side of it, even when the threat has been tangible and aggressive and the imperial policy has been masked. When a physical tangible war struck in our part of the world, we finally realized what could be lost in this war. Reagan related a story about a Cuban fugitive who fled Cuba Castros and settled in the United States. When the Cuban once told the Americans their story, they told one another that they did not realize how lucky they were. Then the Cubman answered: " How lucky are you? I had a place to run to. That was the message of history. If we lose our freedom to thoughtlessness, to oppression, and to the persecution, we have no place to flee. Thousands of our neighbors who are now streaming toward the European Union to engage in war realize this. They take part in a war to catch a line in the sand for peace. The European leaders have been weak in the past few years and have even increased political, economic, and stakeholderial ties to the Russian government, but that time is hopefully over. As a tyrant draws up a new tent of iron, we cannot stand by and thus bring suffering and death to millions. We who live in this part of the world, those of us who have enjoyed this peace and this prosperity that others fought for us, must do all we can to assist Ukraine. Those of us who have most to lose need to act that way. So I'll leave it at the top. Foreign and Development Minister: Are we Icelanders really doing enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u51	Madam President. During these days, we all experience weakness and inadequacy as we see the terrible disasters that rage over Ukraine. It is natural for us to feel compassion for those in need. We are reminded of such questions as: What if this were me? What can I do to help? These questions are well known to us who have worked in humanitarian work for decades, for they are the driving force in the hard work that is going on in the wake of great calamities, such as those we now experience. We have all seen frightening pictures of the people of Ukraine's cities, where they live in basements and underground shelters, and even have children under those circumstances, to escape the drop of the Russian military. Doing humanitarian work in war zones is not in everyone's power. It plays the key role of specialized relief agencies, such as the International Council of the Red Cross. It was a pleasure, therefore, to see right at the beginning of the war that the United States had a total of 50 million government. K. ... totheencourage. Is it my hope that this amount will rise in the light of a medical situation? At the same time, in Ukraine millions are fleeing, and already more than one and a half million people, mostly women and children, have fled to the borders of Ukraine. Those with family and friends in Europe continue their journey to the land. The countries to which the people live are not alone in dealing with this largest number of refugees in Europe since the end of World War II. Today, relief agencies from all over the world flock to these lands in order to help governments cope with this terrible distress. There, we Icelanders can also do our part, both in the form of funds to aid institutions, and also by sending people and equipment, e.g. Through the European Public Protection Agency. What a joy it is to see how the whole community in these countries is involved in helping! People open their homes, cook restaurants in people and businesses, and individuals give people goods and services, and most people hardly bring anything over the border except maybe one bag. Already about 100 Ukrainians have fled to Iceland in search of cover since the war in Ukraine. We can expect that number to increase rapidly in the coming days and weeks, and it is far from possible that a few thousand people will turn to this country, depending on how long the war continues in Ukraine. Governments have already taken the first step toward preparing for these people. It's been activated by 44.re. a foreigner who allows the definition of the mass refugees and today announced the highest frequency. Social and workforce minister on the order of a special task force to coordinate the reception. It's all a good first step, but it's better if it's enough, because those who come to the country under 44. foreigners have a lower level of justice than other refugees and receive e.g. not a work permit in this country. It's not enough for us to think that land and rural society in this country can handle it on their own. Just as there are tens of thousands of new refugees in Ukraine today, the entire Icelandic community has to stand together to solve the biggest social and humanitarian challenges we have ever faced for decades. It is an assignment that countries cannot solve on their own. We need to reroute the public, group, company and organisation to work together as a team. It is my hope that the task force will be the highest. The social and workforce minister announced this morning not only will there be a political platform to coordinate operations, but it will also be ensured that the daily coordination between all parties who wish to put their hands on the plow will be driven in the most efficient manner. We all need to work together to put our arms around these people as refugees. We need to help them get into Icelandic society. We need to back it up during these difficult times in a foreign land. We need to get our children to welcome new students in a foreign land. We need to work together as one nation in showing that our heart beats among the Ukrainians. By permission of the President: 'Slava Ukraini!'
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u52	Madam President. We here were looking forward to a brighter period of time after a two-year reign of Covid, along with all the other nations that build this globe, were not expecting the next challenge to be so vast as it really is. It makes sense that you keep silent on the news that comes both through social media and on websites from day to day. With the war in Ukraine for 12 days, there is no end to the disaster of innocent citizens in that country. It is estimated that more than one million have fled to neighboring countries. Hundreds of civilians have been killed and thousands have been injured. Europe's inhabitants are paralyzed over the situation, which is getting worse every day. Parley does not hold, drugs and necessities for the injured and the sick are scarce, and Russia's authorities are preconceived in their aims. The problem is that even nuclear plants are not even the exception of attacks. Nothing that we have seen since World War II can compare with the refugee problem that confronts this invasion. In a mild way, this must be an enormous task for the nations of Europe and the nations of the Western world to face these good people in distress and to shoot over that shelter. Nor are the chances of spreading the war entirely impossible, but of course you have the hope that it will not. The Atlantic Union has made it clear that military intervention is out of the question, since the alliance is not within it and the Ukraine is not there. However, the situation calls for a changed position in Europe's security, realizing that Russia's Russian authorities do not seem to follow international rules. Perhaps the above discussion shows that in some ways Western nations have slept on their guard, but since World War II we have just tried to appeal to nations with increasing trade, increasing communication in all areas, with the hope that, in turn, democracy and strong organizations will follow. It is safe to say that the situation in Ukraine has failed to attract Russia to that direction. NATO will have to strengthen the defenses of member countries, especially in close proximity to today's wars in Europe. The unprecedented situation in Ukraine calls for strong reactions, and my distinguished president has not yet been able to deal with them. The response is even greater and stronger than I could hope for. I have just returned from the European Committee for Assembly of the EU, conducted at 3:6.55. March. As an agent, Iceland is an agent there. The French have recently accepted the lead and were subscribed to the Council Building by Covid. The plan was to review the key issues that led to France's prehumanity and particularly from the challenge of a pandemic. The plan was to deal with hostilities, climate, energy exchange, and the future of the relationship. It is most recently reported that since the first minute of the war in Ukraine, all discussion was under way. With short notice, it was decided that there would be special discussions about the wars and the positions of security. It was a joy to hear a complete feeling of loneliness at the European meeting. Of course, the concern of all who dealt with the situation in Ukraine and in security, notably with energy. It was shown in the conference that the European Union buys oil and gas from Russia by 10% higher money per year than Russia's Russian government gives for war. Business, funding the war machine, and better than that. By making Europe dependent on Russia's energy, Pútín may have reached a grip that will only be solved with a very burdensome cost to European citizens. In the event that energy contracts are canceled, there is no way to ensure adequate energy. The importance of energy exchange is thus unequivocal to the Europeans, which, of course, are taking a very big step in that direction. A respectable president. I think that we Icelanders can probably help with the ingenuity that has developed in recent years around renewable energy, whether it's a geologic or fallen waters that we've activated, and we're very good compared to those in the control field. But we must also take the situation seriously and analyze our plans. We need to consider that the energy exchange here will be successful, that we will be self-sustained if anything comes up. The tragic events now taking place in Ukraine call for an increasing discussion of national security. Iceland as a free and sovereign state must be prepared to handle its responsibilities. We need to remember that our food security, the previously mentioned energy security, our Internet security, and that we are fully equipped to meet this unexpected challenge. I mentioned at the outset that hopes were not to be taken seriously from this threat. Hence, when members of the council were present at a hearing, most of the speakers found themselves in an all - out campaign in Ukraine. I don't understand the thinking behind it, but it's just the unknown that we need to realize. Whether there are wars, pandemics, or other possible threats, we must always be ready to meet them. This may require extra expenses. We have everything we need to know that the defenses of this country are insured. That guarantee is based on our willingness to ignore us. I believe, most respected president, that in the coming days and weeks and months, we will see the changing priorities that focus primarily on the issue of national security number one. I hope that we will succeed in sharing with other nations in that way. I think the Icelandic people, who are well - educated and who have gone through a number of things, although we have not blessedly endured war, can add to the scales and continue to be a nation among the nations. What a precious privilege it is to be a free and sovereign nation! I felt it very well at a hearing where I was sitting with some hot agents, including... From Kosovo, but we all remember the disaster there, and a Georgian senator, who was attacked by his country in 2008. I felt lucky to live in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u53	A respectable president. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is the war of democracy. That is why it does not affect us emotionally, it is, in fact, warfare against every democratic state in Europe, and it has far - reaching effects. The Ukraine community is not merely fellow feeling for people in a distant land. It's a concordat that is also necessary for our own interests, and I'm going to focus on them. In recent years, the Russian invasion of Ukraine as well as a great change in the international community and its long - term effects mean that we need to examine certain reactions, us. I'm going over four episodes. To this end, we need, first of all, a more powerful partnership with our alliances in NATO, and we plan to make a major increase in our participation there through civil activities related to the joint work of the Community. Second, in order to trust our defense work with the United States and it will be more effective in terms of new national security risks, we have to request an additional protest to the national defence agreement that ensures that the defence agreement takes unequivocally to national security, that the national defence agreement will also take unequivocally to the importance of non-contaminated international relations with the European Union at times of war, such as population transport, sea wires and energy security, and that the defence agreement also contains certain measures to help the United States. Thirdly, I'd like to draw out that I think it's right that we keep an open mind to assess the importance of the permanent survival of a defense team in cooperation with our Community and National Experts, especially with Iceland's safety and defenses. There's cold takeouts to take place. Fourth, in order to trust Iceland's position, we have to weigh the benefits of not fear of stepping away from the European Union's final step to its full involvement in the European Union's inner market. Especially will they be looked forward to trusting in the political position of our country and our security interests by getting a seat at the table, such as in the Atlantic Community. In these days, the Danes are making a national bill for removing the defense warning so that they can have a full and strong share in cooperation and cooperation within the EU and sit at the table. The United States, after World War II, was not the only reaction of Western countries to the establishment of the Atlantic Community that the United States decided to provide the tremendous financial support to war - torn European countries called Marshall. We must now consider that when it comes to Ukraine and be ready to support the country immediately and say it today. After this economic help, the United States also worked hard on European countries to establish into a business and economic team, and the European Union is from that very soil. The final events clearly show that an alliance between defenses and economics will not be broken. We Icelanders have been fortunate to be fully involved in the alliance. A respectable president. We face new challenges, new ratios of power in the world, and we have to face the need to evaluate our personal interests now from the situations we are living in today's world. So our response to the war in Ukraine is not limited to today. At the same time, we welcome refugees from Ukraine, deal well with economic pressure, and do whatever we can to strengthen the position of the nations, we need to look forward to the future, a respectable president. We need to reevaluate Iceland's situation and ensure the future benefits of the country in all areas, and we have the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u54	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for this discussion here and thank you for a good flow of information, which is extremely important for the Senate so we can monitor the situation day by day. Of course, it's the same tone in every senator. We are totally distressed over the position that has come up, that a state of government is being invaded by violence, where largely civilians, women and children, are in control. All of us can associate with these people and feel for them, feel the power of inadequacy, and wholeheartedly want to do what we can to help. When it comes to how we want to respond, our vision of members of the Parliament may not be completely uniform. I can say that we are a nation among nations. We're supposed to be in good relations, cooperation with other countries and countries, but we don't need to have deals or entry into big alliances that we watch on the big movie. I liked listening to what I heard. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. She spoke about the European Union. Then I thought of the Titanic, the ship that could not sink, the European Union, which becomes the relationship to prevent more world wars, the CDC, as activations that cause us never again to activate because we are getting enough energy. The situation is that we are not in the European Union, but we have an enormous cooperation with our neighbors. We have all kinds of contracts, and of course we work a lot with the European Union through EFTA. But it is my firm faith that we should stand outside the European Union. Of course, the European Union is such that, as in Euroviation, there are only certain nations that do not have to go to the lead. This is how the European Union works too. There is no equal position. We are an incredibly small and vastly small nation of resources. We have no warfare, we are peace lovers. We have a contract. We don't have to get involved in something to say yes to the decisions of a much larger country. Next, I'd like to talk about a defense agreement with the United States and I'd like to talk about democratic communities. It's been a few years since the highest man in that state wanted to take Greenland and own Greenland. The point is that we live in a world in which, whether East or West, north or south, we can always get to power, even in a democratic way, weak people who have an enormously dangerous world vision, and when they reach that place, to break democracy from within. That's why I think we should always work out of diplomatic solutions. We're not supposed to encourage war. I don't understand myself: " Guð God we're in NATO when there's a war in Ukraine. ' I think for the people in Ukraine, it doesn't make much difference that we're in NATO. We are a nation without war; we are not to support the ongoing warfare that will exist only if there are others who fall and lie down. We are to support and strengthen a Russian nation in an effort to rid this sick man. We're supposed to be with democracy, all the time. We should always speak for peace. We're supposed to open the land to refugees. We're supposed to send money, we're supposed to send food, we're to do everything we can and we can. We are not to promote any further wars. It's just my firm faith. I know a lot of people disagree with me, but I'm on it. There's another thing I'd like to talk about. It's about the Russian ambassador. When I heard the Russian ambassador speak and I've heard loud voices, and I've heard i've been queries like, "Why aren't they dismissed?" Why are we supporting a debate that supports the wars of a mad man in Ukraine? I think it's extremely important for us to maintain communication, as we have been told, to keep this gringo open to Russia because we have all kinds of money to do so. We have people of our own in Russia that we need to make sure that we are safe. This war is not just a war fought with bombs and bullets. This too is our huge information war with Pútín. What we see in social media is tremendous propaganda, and it is on both sides. I believe that there was a crazy man with his rabid power invading a military force into a free and sovereign state. We have condemned it, and it is to be done. But we must also realize that it's all about face - to - face. Not all news is correct. The Russian public cannot get the right news, they shut down community media, so I insist that we stand with the Russian people who do not listen to this war with the Ukrainians. Finally, I'd like to say, because it's also mentioned Covid, and I think we all know that we were really ready when Covid started, that it was released a song where Þórólfur sang and we were all with, and we were just going to do it together. But then Covid just became a completely ridiculous long - range joke, and somehow we lost our joy and disagreed about the treatment procedures and disagreed about the importance of things and priorities. I just want to reiterate with us here, both senators, but not least to the entire Icelandic nation: the war has gone further. We never believed it would, but it happened, and it's been longer than we thought it would be, and it can even be incredibly long. I just want to make it clear to us that we have endurance, endurance so as not to lose this desire to help, not to lose somehow, not to become insensitive to the fact that the pain is there. And even if the weeks go by, and the daily activities of our daily activities, we must continue to pay off the streets of refugees into the country, we must pay to send supplies and money and do what we can do, to the Ukrainian people because it is most dangerous, and we see it in wars all over the world, and have kept it in our ears during the news season since we were children, that we can become immune to hearing how many died on the west bank of the Jordan. We must endure. We must speak for peace. We must stand by the democracy. That's how we're going to stop war, not with a bigger war.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u55	Madam President. The Ukraine disaster also calls for reactions in Iceland. Fortunately, we need to consider how we can help mostly here, Icelanders, for a longer and shorter time. The first task is to help people who are fleeing Ukraine and to realize that their refugee stream will be the greatest in Europe from the end of World War II. We've already given more people a refuge in Iceland than the British have, and many more will follow. But we also need to support the nations and countries near Ukraine, where the pressures are highest because of a flood of refugees and not forget those working in the vicinity of the environment, although support for those countries is not as visible as what we do here in Iceland. However, in view of the fact that we will soon receive a large number of refugees, it is extremely urgent that we correct the refugee system. It's been neglected for a long time, I've tried to point this out in recent years, but Iceland's security system doesn't work. V.E.G. A few days ago, a minister of justice mentioned this and announced a bill he intends to submit here tomorrow. That alone is not enough - like the highest. During a radio interview this morning, a local agency of 200 hotel rooms rented last week and planned to add another 200 and they would be quickly filled - when the system, which was actually designed after World War II to receive a temporary and significant flow of refugees from war conditions, has not been adapted in the 21st century. How important it is, then, that we reevaluate it so that we can give as much help as we can now that she has become as urgent as ever! But it must always be kept in mind, as I mentioned before and have repeated, that we must not forget the importance of helping in the vicinity, although it is not as visible as what we do here in Iceland. Clearly, we too will need to take sides in the defense work we are participating in, the Atlantic Alliance. It is not unlikely, and in fact almost given that this changed world scene will increase and Iceland's position on the globe will be important again in the context of the Cold War. There we need to be ready to cooperate with other Western nations on defense issues. We also need to think about how we, not just Iceland, but all of the Western countries, will adapt to the changing world scene we see today. This is especially true in the face of energy issues. This has been very much discussed last week and more in our neighboring countries, in the United States, in the United Kingdom, and, indeed, in every Western country, that the Western countries have to become more energy - sufficient for themselves. Western countries, especially European countries, send about 700 million dollars a day to Russia, to the Russian government, as a payment for energy. These countries depend on this energy, they think they can hardly be without it. It weakens the Western status of governments in Russia. This cannot be accomplished by the growth of windmills. Windmills will no doubt increase, but they will not solve Western energy needs for the next few years or decades. We hope to see continued progress in energy production, in technology, in renewable technologies, but it is absolutely clear that the world, including the Western countries, will need more gas and more oil for the anticipated future for the next few years and the next decades. That's why I feel that it must be the government of Iceland, and hopefully it can be the highest. The minister of state expressed himself only on this, reexamined the strange decision to ban research and search for oil and gas in Icelandic jurisdiction at the same time as the Norwegian government has just issued its laws on 53 new legislation, its search and implementation. The importance of increasing numbers in these countries is now being discussed in all Western countries. We too should do our part, but we also need to consider whether we need to do better. Not only do I speak of us here in Iceland but these Western nations that now stand together against this threat, whether we need to do better in defending the values that have worked for us in the Western world, the values that the Ukrainians are dying for, are fighting for in the streets of the country. Democracy, a real active democracy, that people can determine their own future and how the countries are controlled and that political debates and decisions revolve around the real content and effect of the decisions taken and not, as has been the course of evolution, unfortunately, in Western lands and contribute to weakening the Western land against threats, the fact that superficialness will be advising. Russia's president has followed this trend, and governments in other growing countries have also made themselves stronger. When Russia invaded Ukraine, the president of Russia declared that they were attacking the Nazis, a Nazi government in Ukraine. Obviously, an undisputed statement. But this was what the president quoted in the West, where people go all too freely today with labeling people and calling them evil names. The surface man's become too prominent. In Canada, where farmers and freight truckers made great protests, the government in that country spoke of them as Fascist, even Nazi, who was unfair. But if we so freely handle the facts here in the West, in our Western democracy, and the discussion becomes too superficial, it weakens our position against threats, as it is now appearing in Ukraine, and may come to other lands. Our strength is in the baselines that yielded the results we have achieved, and especially in democracy, in discussing the real content, facts - not propaganda, not false news, as is the case with modern - day conflicts from Russia - but in reasoning on the facts and the best ways to come forward. That is why we need to discuss this major subject that this world is based on facts and how we can best help, not from packaging, excerpts, facts, and real solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u56	Madam President. There is war in Europe, and we feel the threat. The Russian army continues to move into Ukraine with casualties and destruction, and more than a million people are on the run. We're here in Iceland feeling the threat. With the war in Ukraine, we are not really that far from the world's war path. Our presence in NATO, the defense of Western democracies, provides us with a guarantee that we, as an armyless nation, know that if we are attacked, the soldiers of other NATO nations will protect us. But we share in the business pressure against Russia with other nations, the artists and our athletes too. But what more can we do? We can receive refugees, gather money for needy people in Ukraine, and send them supplies, and we politicians, senators, and ministers can speak at every opportunity in international committees, and find a peaceful and peaceful solution to stop the war. We must never give up seeking peaceful solutions, and for this, communication with warring parties needs to be at hand. That is why it is a serious operation that should be taken only in the longest of the songs to call an ambassador home or to dismiss the country. What can we do to improve the security of our local community? We do this by following the national security policy adopted at the Council of 2016. National Security Council should legally follow this policy and call for information from relevant recruitment and institutions on the basis of individual factors relevant to it. Network security includes communication. The Internet attacks are frontal attacks on the infrastructure and can focus both on public and private agencies. We need to know how to protect ourselves. We need to build emergency supplies and monitor sea - and - air routes. Public defence and other aspects of national security policy must be evaluated and will most likely be tested if the war spreads. It also needs to assess the consequences and impact of action against Russia on the Icelandic economy and the daily lives of its citizens and to draw up scenarios by international counter measures, assuming that certain groups of society need to suffer more than others. But we will accept responsibility and face hardships if it is possible to promote peace, human rights, and freedom, for the values of open and liberal communities and now threatened. In power, parties take advantage of a mismanagement of information to confuse people, to weaken their opponent, and to make it harder for them to defend themselves. Information and false news are always part of a larger plan for those who benefit from the spread. Pútín used an information mess in the leading of an invasion of Ukraine, and it is pretty clear that the people in Russia are not getting the right picture of the war with the news in that country. The Internet attacks, intelligence, and false news do not respect national boundaries, and it is vital that the nations work together and stand together as opposed to these threats, and we should work closely with the European Union as much as NATO in those areas. The Internet is both a threat and a protection because the information, wrong or correct, travels rapidly between people and between countries. It is my hope that the dragnet, the social media, and the leading of the young people and their demand for freedom, open communities, and democracy will result in shortness of the war and peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u57	A respectable president. President Pútín of Russia and the Russian government are involved in the invasion of Ukraine, and war in Europe against the free and sovereign nation against its rights and human rights. The struggles are a threat to world peace, and there is no doubt that they meet with Ukraine. The invasion is a violation of international law, which is based on national relations and contracts by Russia. In the Budapest Convention since 1994, Russia, Britain, and the United States praised their independence and borders of Ukraine. Russia has broken the agreement that provides the basis for border and Ukraine's independence. The Ukraine invasion shows the importance of Iceland's Member States that NATO and our defense agreement with the United States, which are based on national and national foreign policy and security. There is no mention of one word in Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Community, NATO, nor of the national defence against the United States when it comes to the security and protection of our Icelanders. The prime minister of the country is an opposer of NATO and the national defence agreement with the United States, this foundation of national security. In these times, it is quite different. Prefect VG's policy violates the basic security interests of the West. It's as simple as that. You can't say that in other words. It is amazing that the forwarding party and the Independence Party did not have the national security interests more in mind in making a fundamental contribution to the present government, the actual administration of the Treaty. All countries of Eastern Europe were occupied by the Soviet Union during the Cold War and were freed by the fall of the Soviet Union. When they were freed from the Soviet Union, they immediately put tremendous emphasis on becoming a member of NATO. Why was that? Yes, to ensure the new freedom and the new human rights. The NATO guarantees them this freedom. It must be done with the strength of NATO. The history and history of Europe have taught us that this freedom will be protected only by the defense of the Atlantic Alliance. Iceland is to have an active share in this work, and that is where we must respond to the threat and war in Ukraine. There will be no other way. We are to have a full share in both the work now being done in NATO and in economic pressure. It is noteworthy that the European Council, the European Convention, the European Human Rights Convention, and the European Court of Human Rights were established in the Cold War to provide a basis for the battle of the Free World and what the beginning of NATO was designed to protect. That's what's being fought for; human rights and freedom and the sovereignty of the Ukrainian people. The European Court of Human Rights is the foundation for Iceland's human rights and has had tremendous impact here. The actual rights of the Constitution is based on this covenant. I cannot help but remind a congregation of one of the greatest talks in the history of the General of the United States, which has been given in this public talk. There are the talks of Bjarni son of Benediktsson and son of Jóhann Jósefsson in 1951 and 1952 when Iceland became a member of the European Council and a European Convention of Human Rights. It clearly identifies what was being fought for. This battle is now taking place in Ukraine. The Ukrainian people are fighting for the same values as in our section of human rights as in the European Convention of Human Rights. I would like to mention only the speech of Jóhann the son of Jósefsson, so that I would take it as an example, as he quotes from Iceland's representative Pétur Benediktsson, who says regarding the Council of Europe: This organization for the protection of human rights is the cornerstone of the defence, which will be the backing of our struggle for human rights against those who now threaten right and personal freedom. It is this personal freedom and this human right that are now a conflict in Ukraine. The Ukrainian people have been fighting against the invaders to defend these human rights that we take for granted. It is important that Iceland converges with Western nations in the efforts they have taken to stop the war in Ukraine, which began with the invasion of Pútín and the action intended to ensure our safety. In these wars, there is no bright future. Russia, like Grosni, Chechnya, and Aleppo, Syria, has destroyed cities completely. Such calamities could occur in Ukraine. We at the League of Nations declare our full solidarity with the brave Ukrainian nation that is fighting overwhelming odds at this crucial moment. We also declare our solidarity with the many brave Russians who have objected to the attacks of the local authorities in many cities. [[The president calls.]] It is important that we welcome the Ukrainians who want to search in these critical times in the history of the Ukrainian people and of all Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u58	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. Here we will discuss a terrible invasion by the Russian government in Ukraine, which has long transformed the European world scene, and we will look for the next few decades. We have seen the European Union deal with the situation in a way that we have not seen before in the history of the European Union. We've seen Germany transform its course into security and defenses, Sweden and Finland and other countries. Today, Sweden and Finland are likely to enter the Atlantic Community, something that would have been considered impossible ever since. Europe's security policy, European security, European energy policy, oil expenditures and green energy exchanges, and energy exchanges, I think we'll discuss the next pattern that will take everything into the political debate in Europe. You see, there's such a huge relationship between energy farming, how we continue to exploit Europe's economy and its security. Oil and gas and energy prices in the world, we have seen tremendous increases in recent weeks in connection with war and its consequences, allowing oil prices and gas prices to go out of control during winter. Today, 40% of Europe's natural gas that drives or warms up the houses comes from Russia and about 20% from Norway. Then I would like to further point out that just over a quarter of all the wheat consumed in Europe comes from Russia, and nearly 10% has come from Ukraine in recent years. In recent years, corn prices have risen rapidly and are falling on a full scale in this country, both rising prices and possible lack of grain for the next winter. Three habitats in Iceland depend heavily on the import of grain; pig farm, poultry, and milk production. Here it is to remember that poultry and pig farms are totally dependent on imported grain. Lactation has up to 25% of its food requirements from nuclear feed. Therefore, as time passes, a lack of meat may develop. As seen in winter, the price of fertilizer has also increased dramatically. The price of fertilizer may be further increased by rising oil prices. Let us hope that this will be the year before the end of the coming summer. However, all these factors, rising oil prices, rising prices on nuclear vegetation, and long-term uncertainty over delivery will immediately occur, and some farmers will make their decisions in connection with the development of future losses. What is really large and one of the main issues that were being discussed in the NATO Council not long ago, at the February meeting, and members of the Parliament have also discussed in Europe are chains of separation. The entry chains are breaking. We knew this through Covid-19, and we're seeing this again in Europe in connection with the invasion of the Russian government. We need to consider producing back in Europe, shortening of the separation chains, producing goods, and metals. Recently, the service economy has been taking over the economy in Europe. Now questions arise about the need to consider promoting product production and, for example, the need to produce products. metals in Europe In Europe, employment needs to be considered, ensuring that the industry, the manufacturing economy, remains in Europe. I still want to, as I have done in previous talks when we discuss these matters and for the past year, show that it is important to reexamine the national security policy approved at the council in April 2016. By the time she was approved, she reviewed in five years. There has been little in the community in the five years; there has been much storm in December 2019, when electrical and telecommunications were left behind, the morbidity of the Smokey Peninsula during the past year, the war in Europe today, the debate of food security, the erosion of a chain. So I reiterate the request to the Icelandic government that the national security policy be revised as quickly as possible and complete. The Ukrainian people face an enormous challenge, and it is vital that we do our very best to support them in the most powerful way in times of distress. Me and the Icelanders are a small peace - loving nation, a small nation north of the North Atlantic, a nation with everything to the honour of international law. Let us bear in mind that democracy, as we know it in the Western world, is not an old phenomenon, and the democracies really need to work at defending it, defending democracy, defending freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u59	A respectable president. Of course, the present war situation is an unforgivable tragedy that surprised the entire world. Our response has been quick to meet the situation quickly, and it is truly positive to see how quickly we can respond when needed. I'm glad Iceland is prepared to welcome Ukrainian refugees as soon as possible, as it turns out. However, the reaction raises questions about example and conduct, and I want to touch some of them. At first, it would have been better and stronger to give refugees from Ukraine the refugee position instead of granting them leave only on welfare grounds. A fugitive's position includes a stronger rights and thus an increased protection. We should show the international community that we are serious and that we are setting a leading example for other nations. Secondly, the highest. Minister of Justice activated 44. a foreigner, an article that enables refugees from Ukraine to enjoy passive protection without going through a complicated and prolonged application procedure. This is the first time we've started this article in this country and the highest. Even in an interview, a minister of justice said that we are here watching a milestone. What a milestone! Now we know how simple it is to engage 44. to receive people in need. The example is clear. You can make it easy for people to escape to Iceland and be protected here from war in their own country, at least If it's a political will for that on our side. The question, then, is, Why the first time? Why have such reactions been evident when the situation in Syria, for example? There, conditions of war have been ongoing for over a decade, yet this has never resulted in a peak of 44. has been activated, and at the hands of the Icelanders, the Syrians have been so unambiguous and secure as the Ukraine is being given. The same can be said of Afghanistan and Iraq. What's the argument? Why are we so quick to react when Ukraine is attacked but at the same time so reluctant when it comes to war - related nations? The Congress and the nation would take this milestone very seriously as far as possible. The Minister of Justice is talking about it. They prove that the acceptance of refugees and the way we treat them affects nothing but political will. We can do much more, much more than those in authority prefer not to do so. Third, I find it important to consider how we can protect Russian people who have spoken against Russian authorities and are therefore not safe in their own country. Does the government picture helping these people who are also in need? If the government does not consider it to be a cause for this, it would be reasonable to ask what it thinks is enough of distress. The Russian government constantly undermines the values the Icelanders want to achieve; respect for human rights, freedom of expression, active democracy; and they prolong the freedom of people to action and human dignity. All of this conflicts with government foreign policy and then only naturally asks whether it would be in the spirit of foreign policy to assist civilians. These are terrible times, and it is vital that we try to help out as best we can, for we have all the power to do so. We should use ourselves to protect people from persecution that protests the action of the Russian government, just as we provide protection for refugees from Ukraine. As authorities have repeated the last days, the Icelanders are a warless nation, and blessed, there is little desire both in the council and in the nation to change it, and therefore we will not bring weapons to the battlefront, but we can bring hope and compassion instead of murder devices, help instead of military equipment. No one who flees armed conflicts does so as a joke. Leaving everything you know, family, friends, and closer to your environment is a serious step. It is only hoped that most who flee will return to their homeland when the wars have been buried. But until then, we give these people peace of mind, accept it, and give them the opportunity to give of themselves to an Icelandic community. It is the least we can do that armyless people away from the battlefield. Finally, I want to thank you very much. Secretary of State for starting this discussion and for good relations with the United States of America from the beginning of the conflict. In times as important as this, it is vital that the government speak clearly and media information about both the inside and outside the palaces of the Generals. Likewise, I thank the government's firm stand against Pútín's military action and hope that this tone is what should come from governments in the future conflict, whether it is in Europe or in other parts of the globe.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u60	A respectable president. The issue we are discussing here today is of this sort that almost impasse is to put our arms around it in the discussion as this. The things that happen in Ukraine are in such a way that there is no way for us who are here to imagine the circumstances and anguish experienced by the inhabitants of this land. We see in times like these how precious it is to enjoy security and freedom of thought and action, freedom that we must protect from the country and support the fight of kingdoms in other parts of the world that demand the same thing. Iceland is not given a discount of human rights and the support the Icelandic government has already promised for humanitarian and humanitarian efforts on and across the border in Ukraine is relevant as well as support from Iceland for the penalties imposed on Russia. It is important that we observe other Western nations in that action, thereby displaying a solidarity in action, condemning the illegal military action practiced by the Russian government in Ukraine. The situation in Ukraine is terrible and gets worse every day, and it really goes on with each hour. It is estimated that some 1.5 million people have already fled to neighboring countries, most to Poland, but also to Moldova, Romania, Hungary, and Slovakia. It is estimated that there may be up to 4 million refugees, and those who are going to need help will be about 12 million. In contrast, at the peak of the refugee tides from Syria in 2015, Europe's largest refugee stream from World War II was spoken of by a total number of refugees throughout 2015, about 1.5 million, the same number as the first ten days of the war in Ukraine. The number of deaths that have been lost in this conflict is estimated to be thousands, and the number goes up to the length of the war. In wars, civil society is the worst out of conflict, common citizens whose destiny is defenseless, or they try to escape the conditions that others have created and are unclear what the purpose of such cruelty is, as it is practiced. Reports are now coming from general construction, schools, and hospitals. Intensifications, such as electricity and water, are not suitable and food is scarce. It is important to realize that those who cross the border are mostly women and children, where military drafts apply to all men from 16 to 60 years of age who are eager to fight. Those who are sick and find it difficult to travel are left behind as well as older citizens and those who are disabled, individuals who in no way can defend themselves against the threats they face. It is extremely important that the international community, including Iceland, not forget these groups, for it is those who have the most practical help and protection needed and many who are dependent on life - saving therapies that are difficult to handle because of lack of medication, medical assistance, or just electricity and clean water. Sadly, these are facts of warfare that have been done all along, but these groups must not be forgotten, a respectable president. What will be the next days? It is not my intention here to predict the future of these conflicts or where they will lead us; there are many better and better to do so than the one here. It is clear, however, that the conflict will continue, and it will harden. It is estimated that some 80,000 people have returned to Ukraine to take up arms and fight for the country as well as reports of soldiers in Denmark, Czech Republic, and Britain having the right to go and participate in the conflicts without being punished for their return. The population of neighboring countries is now at no time armed with fear of what will happen throughout Europe, and particularly in countries with borders of Ukraine, Belarus, Russia, and the former countries of the Soviet Union. A large number of weapons have been delivered to Ukraine from countries of Europe and the United States, which will have benefited the Ukrainians from holding back the Russian movement of the country. You can see changes in large areas of international government where a greater proportion of people in Finland and Sweden now feel that it is time to walk in NATO. Switzerland, who has remained neutral and has not participated in military operations and is outside the military alliances, is engaged in criminal action against Russia and Germany have decided to strengthen their defenses and openly talk about it, but this has been a big shy case in Germany since the end of World War II. It may be said that all European countries are now planning their defenses and realize that we Icelanders have to do the same. It's childish to think that we're immune, that nothing can ever happen here, that we're so far away or so small that we don't have to worry about anything, that this won't touch us in any way. We need to take up a discussion about our defenses. In the cold war that now seems to be waking up from a long hibernation, we cannot overlook the fact that Iceland and Iceland are under the jurisdiction to defend. I'm not promoting military warfare with these words. I'm simply raising a point on the fact that we need to take up a serious debate about the defence of the country. A respectable president. Clearly, not all citizens of Russia share the view of the president, but reports of protests on the streets in Russia every day, despite the fact that the news of the conflict is very written by the Russian government, and it appears that a large percentage of the Russian common people really do not know what is going on in Ukraine. Yesterday, it was reported that some 5,000 people were arrested at protests in Russia, but this number can be taken with great notice, as is the case. Today, the fate of these people is in the hands of governments, and they may be sentenced to many years in prison simply to protest the illegal war effort of their own government in Russia. Similarly, there has been a great flow from Russia to neighboring countries, where the situation has become bad, inflation of high and scarce goods, and governments have limited much of what once seemed normal. The Russian business has been stopped, the SWIFT system shut down that makes all international transactions reach impossible and Russian bank accounts abroad have been closed. Russia's citizens are beginning to feel the pressure on them. They're biting. This is important in view of our being careful in our speech and in our publications. Although the president of Russia and his advisers have the will to continue the war effort in Ukraine, that is not to say that it is the will of all citizens of the country. We must not, nor should we judge one nation for the actions of a few. It is clear that the war in Europe will exert its economic influence on us Icelanders in a direct and indirect way. Already it is clear that the effects will be on the fishing road, where Ukraine is a major commercial country that comes to exposed products and fish products have been sold to a third state, and from there into the Russian market and to Ukraine. It is estimated that there are 3.5 billion in direct sales, but there is uncertainty about selling to the Third Reich. Clearly, though, the amount of money is substantial. Icelandic technical companies have also been selling into this market, mainly to companies in fishing areas. The markets have also been closed. The price of fertilizer and grain has risen tremendously, and it is not supported by rising elevations that will adversely affect local farmers and increase food prices to consumers. Half the world's population receive food thanks to cream, and if it's removed, in some cases the crop will be reduced by half. Russia and Ukraine are among the world's largest exporters on agricultural products, and food and Russia produce large quantities of groundwaters needed in production. It is clear, therefore, that if you close this market, the production of groceries will be drawn together, which can lead to lack of food and substantial increase in food prices. So it is important and probably never more important than now that we consider the national food security and sustainableity. We need to strengthen the support of Icelandic food production so that we are self - sufficient when it comes to food for the Icelandic nation. It is urgent now, and we are on an international level when it comes to ensuring the basic necessities of food and water. There the government needs to take in and further increase the production of food. We have to start today. A respectable president. I'm going to end my talk with a subject that I love very much, but it's the convention of refugees from Ukraine. Now that the Icelandic government has activated its 44. the treatment of foreigners at the same time that the European Union induced its protection and emergency strategy, which has never been used before, no more than 44.g. Strangers, it is clear that we can expect a large number of people to come to a country from Ukraine. It provides protection for three years, and plans assume that some 1,500 people will come here for safety and security. At the same time, it is clear that the figure mentioned here is guesswork, depending on the way the conflict is going to develop. How we fulfill this assignment is of vital importance. [[The president calls.]] In view of the way it was accomplished, the United States will be judged by the government. We are to display human kindness and human kindness during this time, and the support of the Icelandic government, the country, is important. It is so that although we are not a big people on the world's standards, we have demonstrated that it can be relevant when an Iceland's voice is being heard. [[The president calls.]] It's important, respectable President, that Iceland's voice is now being heard, more important than often before.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u61	Madam President. First, I'm going to thank the minister of foreign affairs for his career, information, and a firm stand in connection with the political invasion of Russia in Ukraine. It's also good to find the sole mind here at the council. The fact is, however, that at the National Assembly of Iceland, foreign affairs are too seldom discussed, and even fewer, of the depth needed and needed, and that is unfortunate and we need to change it. The lesson is that we need to trust our position in nations that share our outlook on life and values, about democracy, freedom, and human rights. This is the strongest defense against our sovereignty at all costs. I believe it would be most successful for the Icelandic nation to enter full involvement in the European Union. This view is certainly not based solely on the threat we now have because of Russian governments, but it cannot be overlooked how much security and defense has increased in the European Union, unfortunately not without reason. Full involvement in Iceland that the European Union would trust our political position and important interests, just as our involvement in the Atlantic Community would be. And, of course, it is not by chance that much of this is about the same nations, the peaceful nations with which we associate. I must say here that it is hypocrisy, perfect hypocrisy, to speak here as if we are one nation interested in living in peace. Mr. President. It may be a little understatement on the foreign affairs that the Icelandic government has late accepted as an invasion of Pútín in Ukraine, but, fortunately, they have taken strong steps in with a clear condemnation and support for forced action. Russian authorities have responded in an predictable way and have put Iceland in the list of enemy nations. I don't know how bad it is. Every day, we see how Russian authorities treat their friends, their cousins. Yet, the courage of the Ukrainian people is admirable. However, she needs something more than admiration from us. She needs immediate assistance, and we need to let our actions speak in the country, in Ukraine, and elsewhere. If forced operations are to stop the disaster of President Pútín of Russia, the brakes need to be fixed more firmly. The consequences will be burdensome for many people, including us here, for businesses and for homes. This, however, is a small cost for living in a world that President Pútín of Russia suffers unscrupulously from bombing. We cannot allow that to happen, and we must do everything we can to prevent it. We will achieve them best with our friends and cousins who share values that are vital to us as an independent, sovereign nation; democracy, human rights, freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u62	A respectable president. Just over a month ago, my friend from Ukraine was visiting me here in Iceland with her husband. At that time, however, when they said good - bye, we planned that I might even visit them and their two children in Lviv this summer. Well, a month later, the situation is different. Since Russia's invasion, 38 children have died, 71 children have been injured. Children are born into this war situation and uncertain circumstances. Inns are down. 211 schools have been destroyed and are incompetent. More than a million people have already fled. Like my friend and her family, others are determined to stay in Ukraine until peace comes again. Both the refugees and the remaining group need support for the international community, especially in the form of humanitarian assistance, both inside and outside the Ukraine border. In view of the recommendation of a few people. The members of the minority of the VG Peace Policy remind me that this makes it clear in the Treaty, the current and the former, that the government works on the basis of national security policy. Regardless of how long the war will last, it is clear that this will be a long-term project and will have a broad impact on Europe's community and elsewhere. In this context, I'd like to talk about food security. We know that hunger and conflict are closely linked, and one thing often comes with another. Long - standing conflicts in Ukraine are likely to have a major impact on international chain of production. According to the UN Food Organization, from 135 million to 283 million people since 2019, the number of people with food in security has increased. These increases can be partly attributed to the impact of a pandemic on the manufacturing chain. Russia's invasion has already affected the availability of needs within and outside Ukraine's borders. For example, there is a shortage of food and drinking water both in Khrakiv and in Khrakiv. The United Nations Food Organization has already answered the call for humanitarian help and food within and outside Ukraine, and the need is great. It is also likely that this will affect food security beyond the Ukraine border, especially on the poorest countries in the world. The countries around the Black Sea are one of the most important areas in the world to produce grain and produce about 12% of the world's produced kalorium. After a few weeks, farmers on the Plain of Ukraine will have to lay down grain if they are to harvest the next summer and fall. Clearly, how these developments will be greatly affected. Ukraine transports about 40% of its production of wheat and grain to the Middle East and Africa. These are areas where food shortages and increasing prices in many areas could result in an increase in conflict. War - torn countries such as Yemen are likely to suffer most if delays occur in manufacturing chains and in the export of food from Ukraine as a result of Russian invasion. It is extremely important to plan for a lack of food and to respond quickly if there is an improvement in the number of manufacturing chains. This, of course, has to do with the battle against climate crisis. As has been the case during the day, both in a pandemic and in the light of war in Europe, food security is being threatened in many places. Climate change will in increasing numbers cause crop failure, especially in vulnerable areas where they undermine food security that is even already available. The energy exchange is also more urgent than ever. Achieving fossil fuels is clearly a product of insecurity, and in many parts of Europe it is called for quick action toward sustainable energy sources. Madam President. We need to respond to these major challenges by coordinated action, and I mean both between countries and between segregators. Worldwide epidemics and wars have a consistent effect on climate change, and all of this has consequences to the world's food security.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u63	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for reporting the situation in Ukraine, our task resulting from the terrible state of Russia's invasion. I want to talk about two things. On the one hand, we need to be clear about how we are going to receive refugees. Will it be enough to apply for protection and better identification, or will there be more to it? V.E.G. The social and workforce minister insisted here earlier today that where there is a maximum. Minister of Justice would have activated 44. a foreigner would not have personal material treatment for an application but would automatically protect all the citizens of Ukraine. Now we are considering what happens to the citizens of other countries who now flee Ukraine, people who may have been living in Ukraine for decades and years. Will they enjoy the same privileges in this country as those with Ukrainian passports? Or will we make these people go to other countries, possibly where they have fled for themselves from war or from other forms of persecution? We must realize that by 2020, there were 5,000 refugees from Syria, Russia, and Bangladesh living in Ukraine. Thirty - five thousand people without citizens lived there, and 60,000 inhabitants of foreign descent, mostly well - educated young men who obtained a living permit for study and work there. It is evident, then, that the number of people living in Ukraine does not have a passport, nor do they know how to get out of the country. V.E.G. Similarly, the social and employment secretary today said that anyone who gets protection here will also get employment licenses. That's very direct and to follow, for last week we were told that the private sector alone is missing here on the country at least 12,000 people working. It may then be that several thousand people are missing into the public sector. In other words, those who fear that we will not be able to handle the task of living in a place of refuge should rejoice, for we need more people. There is something else that I would like to bring up today, but there is the Russian media situation and the country's country's mismanagement now that Pútín shuts one media after another. A blue ban has been set on the use of invasions in Russia's war effort in Ukraine and news broadcasts in this vast country of Ukraine and the war effort of Pútín, if any, is extremely limited. So, finally, I ask: Can the alliances do anything to inform the public in Russia? Do we have any advice?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u64	A respectable president. Russia's ambassador is to be removed from the United States as soon as possible. This need to be seriously discussed with the political parties at the Council. The reputation of the Russian ambassador in Iceland is quite aggressive, and nothing more than a rough attempt to cheat and forgery of facts. The U.S. ambassador of Russia describes this as not an invasion but a military operation to secure the safety of Russian citizens both in Ukraine and in Russia. The goal is to reduce the strength of the army in Ukraine. Then the U.S. ambassador of Russia, U.S.A., told a news agency that this was not over an invasion of the Ukraine. What a delusion. Such a compromise makes him dangerous and ousting, and we must send a clear message that we do not tolerate false information about the war in Ukraine, ridiculous information from those who are already blowing and shooting at the public and children in Ukraine and on defenseless disabled people, sick people and elderly people who have no means of saving themselves. The circumstances in Ukrainian cities are frightening. Pútín and his military command fires in the homes of people and children. There is no sure way out of the worst cities, and the common people cannot escape the violent Russian army. There is a lack of food, water, and medical supplies, and there is no gas in many of Ukraine's cities. I hope it's all in three, i.e. Lenín, Stalín, and Pútín, who are now involved in this terrible association of violent people in human history. Those who claim to be socialists or Communism must now undergo an umbilical examination and realize that there is no justice in the Russian ruler's dictionary. The Ukraine War must stop by any means. It is unacceptable to have hundreds or thousands of people killed in this war, much less a lot of children. We are to be stopped by the Russian dictator and by his followers, who are involved in this terrible violence against a free democracy. The public is a target and children. That is why we are to end a political relationship with Russia. We have orders to send the ambassador and the supporters of Pútín home. No war is won, everyone loses war, and the losers are the worst. Today, we have listened to talks about what we need to do and what we should do. Now we have to board our sleeves and perform. We must send a clear message that we will never feel that a dictator for some reason has turned all the facts upside down can invade a country where all the people wanted was to live free and control their own affairs. The people want to send a clear message, and that's how we feel with the Ukrainian people and how they fully support them in the struggle they now hear about being free and independent and having the way they want to live their lives, not as Pútín wants.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u65	Madam President. We look at the war in Ukraine in horror, and there is no safety for President Pútín of Russia's war machine; women, children, babies, and elderly people are killed in cold blood. Our minds and hearts are with the many now painful ones in Ukraine. The purpose of this war is absolute. A peaceful people who have done nothing wrong suddenly have to fight for their life and right to life. The Ukrainian resistance and combat will is admirable. Russia's war against Ukraine is war against Europe, against democracy, and against human rights. Therefore, the Western countries must never fail Ukraine. Never. Their responsibility is great. The ruler and dictator Pútín lie to their own nation and to the international community, and they must never succeed in breaking up Western communities and taking possession of Ukraine. Pútín threats to nuclear weapons show a reality independence that the president is at the hands of and the danger that the entire world now faces. Today, when Russia's wars fail to function as expected, the risk of Pútín is increased, and there is a real danger. The international economy against the Russians has to be very aggressive. There's no field for migrating. There's a lot at stake. A military power that invades independent and sovereign European countries, thereby threatening peace in the entire continent is an army that no one can trust. Next time, it could be the Baltic States. The Ukraine war shows the importance of NATO and proves its purpose as a defense alliance. In Europe, there has been a rapid revolution in safety. Now as never before, Iceland must fulfill its commitments to NATO and make sure that there is always the situation here for defense mechanisms that could make a big difference in its fate. Let us not forget that the Russians were recently engaged in military exercises off the coasts of Ireland in an unscrupulous Irish country. What will be the reaction to this hall in the political field, the demand for increased Iceland's defenses, is yet to be seen. There is no way to predict how events will unfold in Ukraine for the next few days. The likelihood that a crucial moment will soon begin is high, the beginning of the conclusion of the Ukraine that a free and sovereign Kingdom could soon be at hand. The free Western world can never be accepted. The events in Ukraine will not be stopped by word, words must follow. The world has shown this and proved that it can stand together against a common threat. The national stand against the viral epidemic proved this fact. Today, the Kremlin government is an enemy of world peace and stability. The nations of the world must stand together against the reign of terror of Pútín. In an important time, when Europe's future is at stake, there can be no hesitation in Ukraine. I really hope that the Russian public will rise up against the government in the Kremlin and the days of the Pútín government will soon be no more. The people in Russia don't want war. Mr. President. I'd like to use this opportunity to ask Icelanders not to judge the Russians who live on this land. They have done nothing wrong, and they suffer over the war. Sadly, they have been attacked, damaged by the Church of the Russian Orthodox congregation here in Reykjavík, and we have condemned all such violence. Yesterday, I attended a group of prayer services of different churches in the High Church, where peace was prayed for in Ukraine. The event was well attended and included United States Ukraine and Russia lived on this land. Thank you for this initiative of the National Church. Finally, Mr. President, may God save us from the revelation of World War III beyond the corner.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u66	A respectable president. At times, such words may be lacking, for in no way can you recognize the calamities of innocent people in Ukraine, people who have nothing to do but to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Yesterday we read about a young family who died in a bomb attack waiting for a train to flee her home, friends, and family. You find that the only escapes offered by Russia are Russia and White Russia, countries that the people of Ukraine want to avoid in the longest law. Most of the wars in this part of the world were removed, and we were in no way prepared to see it become a reality at this time. Now, we face the greatest refugee stream we have ever seen. Millions of people are on the run. Its route leads to other European countries, which have to work rapidly and in an orderly way in order to receive this vast number. Close to them, such as Poland, will be unable to accept all those in that group and will flee there during that war. Thus, Europe's partnership is of great importance, and it makes you feel more proud to experience the great solidarity and harmony that has been evident in Europe. We here in Iceland also need to put our weight on the scales to prepare those who are looking for the best conditions they can provide. Farmers have to struggle to accept people. Sadly, there are only three communities that have a contract to serve with refugees and that need to be changed. Icelanders may react so well to unexpected situations, and we should take advantage of them now that we can expect a considerable number of people in need to search here. A respectable president. Now the Russians have put us on the list of hostile states, and we should be referred to as reviews of all our cooperation, both within Europe and in our defense work with the United States. The situation in the world is different.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u67	Madam President. At the same time, it has been painful to watch the Ukrainian people suffer as a result of the undefeated Russian attack, it has been admirable to observe the solidarity in many parts of the world. It is a blessedly visible union here in Iceland, but it is not necessarily that it will continue. This war can rage for a long time, and it is a sad fact that attention is more sensitive when conflicts persist. Even though suffering is even more intense and real, it becomes less severe to those who suffer it. In other words, in this terrible war, the country's endurance is not only a test but also that of our Icelanders and other nations. We may welcome a number of refugees from Ukraine, not out of a sense of duty, but out of compassion and sympathy. I hope that, in time, the familiar and inhuman singing will not begin that we Icelanders have enough of ourselves, that it is unacceptable to spend money on refugees while a group of Iceland lives in poverty. We must not lose the discussion in this anxiety that one thing eliminates another and that our compassion and humanity are conditioned by an Icelandic passport, that we eat together groups that are painfully bound. There is another pit we need to avoid. In that stinking pit, money and financial interests are the most important things. It is inevitable that Iceland will be affected economicly by the war. It will be clearly seen in certain sectors and companies. After the Russians captured the Monsters, it was too soon that they were crushed. At that time, the financial interests of large fishing companies began to influence us, and it was required that we no longer use the Russian commercial pressure. They then reached a considerable number of flights within the governments at that time, an independent party and a forwarding party. Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was then the minister of foreign affairs and stood on his feet, including By permission of the president's permission: It's just that we can't replace a prince's position for the economy, even though they're worth a fortune. We are a small nation, and we take our place in keeping international treaties and treaties. The reality is that if we are not willing to make sacrifices and do our part, why should other countries make sacrifices for us and protect our interests under pressure? We simply have everything in mind that the world's largest kingdom values the independence of other nations. It's wishful to the highest. If pressure begins to be applied from the same forces, the minister of foreign lands will also stand in his feet. V.E.G. A minister should thank you for a clear declaration from the beginning of war and a great willingness to give information to the council. However, the minister and all of us need to be careful that the financial interests of an individual enterprise are of no greater importance than the national sovereignty or that the crowns and money are worth more to us than fellow feeling with an persecuted nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-07-47.u68	Madam President. I would like to start with my second speech to thank you very much for the discussion here today. There's a strong tone and a theme that I love about, not just as a foreign minister, but as a citizen in this country. Hv. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon asked specifically about Central Heshök and whether we were preparing for the welcome of a large army at Keflavour Airport. Nor does it turn to the hosting support we've been with for a very long time and has the cost of building it so that we have room for it when it comes to air space care. Air cover and hostel support are essential elements of our involvement in the Atlantic Union. It also asked if we were doing enough, so I can ask back, " What is enough? ' If someone had sworn to what was enough, we would be in a better place than we are now. But we're doing a lot and we'll do more. Humane support, business involvement, partnership, compromise, symbolic support, physical support, etc., all of this matters and counts. What I consider to be our role, too, is to create some way of solving this great power and energy that flows past people in this country who are willing to do almost anything to help; business, individuals, people who have apartments, people who want to make an account of it, knowing that it's going to a good place. There's a bad feeling that people don't know where they're going to look, and I think they're something we're supposed to think fast and find ways to make things better, that they're in one place where you can screw with what you want to have done. I know, for example. so that Lithuania is a home page where they can choose if they want to make money, if they have an apartment, if they have job drivers, and a job offer. This is something I think would be a great help to us. Regardless of the size of the group, the convention will be a huge task, and strings will need to be assembled. But hopefully there we will not only display human behavior but also manifest what we are rather good at, which is being able to respond quickly but also benefit from having few middlemen to do what needs to be done. I wanted to mention it here, because many people have mentioned that we are an armyless people and peace lovers, and I've said this in this chair before, and I'm going to say it again: Yes, we're armyless and, yes, we're peace lovers, but it's just a normal people. All ordinary people are peace lovers, and they hate war and perhaps especially people living in lands that cannot remember to be without war. How thankful we can be, then, that we are a nation without war, but we are not to boast about it! We can thank you not to have an army, but we should not brag about it because we trust in the military might of others to ensure our peace and security. So, while part of our definition and image as society is that we are peace lovers and without warfare, I also believe that part of the Icelandic nation is our involvement in the Atlantic alliance we have been since its establishment. [[Take up the front: Hear, hear]] Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir asked what could be done to get information to the Russian public, where governments are so afraid of their own people that they shut down all external information. There I do not have a complete answer, but I wondered, " Is it possible in some way to send a long wave, as was done during the Cold War? ' So it is true that the net is like water that frequently finds a way past a censorship, and I certainly hope that the net will flow there like the water and find ways to reach the people. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Sigmur Guðmundsson when he refers to the words of a former foreign minister as to what it means to do what is right, even when it costs something, because you do not put the price on peace. So I'm going to finish this by saying I'm going to get on my feet when it comes to teaming up and taking part in the pressure, because as we've been doing here many times, we all depend on international law being respected. We have everything below the borders and laws of the sea and land to be respected. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
