ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u1	A respectable president. Last December, when the Subcommittee on the payment of Civil Rights applied to the General, the commission arrived at the empty cabin, and no applications had been received from the Foreign Institute. The results were obtained from the agency that the decision had been made to change the structure so that the applications would at some point be applied when the Foreign Institute was suitable. What the General and Education Committee of the General Assembly decided to do in an effort to bring these data forward as the Parliament and the Committee need to do their legal work in providing citizens' rights was to call out for these documents with reference to 1.mg. 51st par. Act on the General Assembly, which obligates the government's obligation to provide the Senate with data requested by the Parliament. Was the Foreign Institute suspended to February 1 to deliver these data. Conflicts have been identified in the case of the highest degree. Minister of Justice on the fact that this article will by no means bind the hands of the Foreign Institute on this matter. The legal opinion of this subject was asked here at the Assembly Hall, the legal opinion has come into the house, and it is considered clear. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The minister of Justice and the Foreign Institute in his court violated a law when it did not deliver the evidence that it was required before February 1. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u2	A respectable president. Once again, we come up here because of the highest. Justice minister and Foreign Institute do not respect the law, the law that they are appointed to follow. First of all, the Minister of Justice - I would not even call it an interpreter. Rather, the Minister of Justice says that the content and content of the law of civil rights conflicts, and that somehow the role of the Generalis is some kind of secondary role when it comes to giving citizenship rights, that it is somehow unorthodox to the routine process of the Foreign Institute. It's just wrong. When the law is looked at, it can be seen very well that it is only a lie. Minister of Justice says about the law on civil rights and the role of the Generals in it. Now we've made it black on the white side of the Senate's legal office that it is also a lie regarding a body of Congress that is about to court a committee to call out for evidence, which is, in fact, to be answered within a week, by the highest claim. Minister that this is not relevant to this request from the General and Education Committee is also false. We now have it in black and white.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u3	A respectable president. I'm glad that the Generals Legal Office took a clear stand for the council. Then the question must be raised: How will this be followed by a dignified president? How are we going to get all legal data in the house? There will be no guarantee that this will be done by the end of the week, all police reviews, reviews from Foreign Institute, etc.? I would also like to draw attention to the fact that yesterday I received my ear that the Foreign Institute was refusing to waive a Civil Rights application because, from the time a foreign agency received the application and until today, in less than a year of application on the table there, a child would have reached 18 and would have fallen out of a certain certificate in law. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is completely unsurpassed that an institution can do this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u4	President. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir Vala Vólva Helgadóttir, requesting Presidential position. A president to see what the council should do in this situation. It has become clear that the Minister of Justice is breaking the law, and the Foreign Institute is breaking the law by not delivering these data, or anything else, but by not having delivered these data long ago. I'd like to agree with what, too. paritaprevir Helga Vala Vógva Helgadóttir says that this is not just a matter of gross disrespect for the council, but of real people in the community waiting for a conclusion. I also have a problem with people who have a negative conclusion at the Foreign Institute, but since the National Institute of Iceland has promised nothing to happen until we have finished these applications, these people will be waiting. There are children, more than one and two, who are waiting in complete uncertainty for their future to be approved by the National Institute of Iceland, which is in violation of the law, giving the council data to be delivered in December and at the latest of February 1.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u5	A respectable president. We'll talk about this citizen thing again, and maybe I'll tell you in the middle of the day that I'm interested in discussing more about the future. Clearly clear, and this legal view proves that, of course, the Senate can call for that evidence. In fact, I don't think the Agency or Minister was going to try to get away from that obligation, it was about time. It is true that according to the Convention, such data are to be provided within seven days. That's one of the things we may need to review if we want to wonder about these things, if there's a normal time limit for a review of 170 applications. But the big thing I think must be how we want this work to be for the future, because we're in a position, of course, that this isn't going to work, what we've been through, and we're most agreed on that, so we need to get a new way. It's been mentioned here to just pick up the old way, the applications just come directly to the council. But let us bear in mind, too, that in most countries we compare ourselves to, this group of languages at an institution like the Foreign Institute, where this is done in accordance with the law. Of course, it's a bit of a particular situation here to have this procedure and tradition. [[The president calls.]] I'm not saying that I'm against it, but I think it's very important that we get together on a future project and how we're going to do it to give a citizen's right to a state right here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u6	A respectable president. As a new senator at the High General Assembly of the Icelanders, I find it difficult to grasp the apparent work force here. I'm increasingly surprised that as the dawns grow at the General Assembly, I listen to this discussion day after day, and she can't go on. I'd like to compare this to the country's government phase, where I've raised the man mostly so far, where elected agents employ employees to enforce the rules set. We'd hear something coming from the local government if the officials just did anything else. I think, a respectable president, that I would just call it a coup. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u7	A respectable president. I'm just here to finish this discussion that I was trying to start earlier, but I didn't make it out of time. This is about the fact that behind an application, there is a flesh and blood person who is applying for rights for which the person has the right to apply. There's been some misunderstanding upstairs, including. in the speech of the highest. Minister of Justice, that it is some kind of predestination procedure to pass through the council. Of course, it is not that a certain group of slaves are forced to apply for citizenship through the council because they do not meet all criteria for being able to obtain a citizen's right to the government's decision. The decision that the Foreign Institute has made to pile all applications into one pile cannot be the problem of the Generals. There are certain applications to come here, people apply to the Generals, but not according to the administration plan. [[The president calls.]] It'll only be the Foreign Institute and the highest. Minister of Justice making up for the knots of the Foreign Institute of Vernker.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u8	A respectable president. I may come up here alone, most likely to respond to a word or two. The head of the General and Education Committee, what? paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. Somehow, I felt that there was something wrong with it. A senator at the highest. A minister would never have said or published that he would not deliver those records. I just want to make sure that at an open meeting with the General and Education Committee, the lady standing here at the highest level. The Minister of Justice whether he considered himself and the National Institute of Foreign Affairs not obliged to perform a request from the General Education Committee under the 51rd st. According to a contemporanity contract, because this is not the role of the committee, this article should simply not be applicable to this request. So he held on to his full feet. Now we have received confirmation of what we thought were known for, that it is not. Then there is a question sign that a minister of Iceland's government brings up some legal committees to discuss what they can ask for and what they may not and when their permission to call for evidence is relevant and when they may not. [[The president calls.]] But it is not otherwise to expect from a minister who has already decided how the General Assembly should provide a citizen's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u9	Mr. President. I can't help but agree with someone else. Councilmen who wish to have the highest will. A president of this case has taken advantage of himself. I don't know how to play it any more when there's such a crime at the highest level. Minister. It's more than 100 years of tradition here that's being violated, 100 years old, and I would have thought that those associated with the category would now try to hold on to tradition, not break it. We must not forget that this is not just a matter of some power struggle between the council and the minister. There are people in the back. There's kids in the back. We must not forget them when we're in some political game here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u10	President. We are still here to discuss this matter, which is all the most embarrassing, as it has become clear to all. I'd like to say something with a what. Haraldsdóttir How important it is that we look to the future! We have to figure out how to win this thing, and that job is about to start. I also have to say, sitting on the Subcommittee: We may well have finished this long ago, we might begin to consider correcting the process and building a future organization, if we had the data to do so. It takes an enormous amount of time, week after week, and it's really unacceptable that we don't get all the load and finish it. We must also remember that the next application session is in the house, not to us, but to the Foreign Institute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u11	A respectable president. What I would like to discuss today is the serious situation in Icelandic agriculture. The fact is that many things can be added to the European Farmer's economy. The production will of Icelandic farmers, especially in meat production, diminish. Conditions are difficult, and with increasing international food markets, large foreign manufacturers have begun to move to bed in increasing numbers as little as possible on land. For a long time, meat production has been called upon to receive the same extras as the milk industry, as it were 71 G. The livestock says you're good-for-nothing. This would allow for products in the meat industry to unite, establish a workforce, and have other cooperations to maintain the cost of production, storage, and distribution of meat products. This has been done by the milk industry, and we have seen in the past 17 years that such extra care has benefited him. Practicality within the milk industry is billions of years, and there is no real basis for doing the same for the carnivorous industry. By granting such an exception, the Icelandic meat industry provides a considerable amount of material to cope with the growing extraterrestrial competition. By increasing production, operating grounds and the production will of the profession, we contribute to a more reasonable level of prices. I challenge the highest. Food administrator to address the cry of Icelandic farmers in this direction. It is simply a matter that has grown to such an extent that it cannot stand waiting. A respectable president. Operation is immediately required.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u12	A respectable president. This morning, at a meeting of the budget committee with representatives of the Homing House and Mobilization Agency, there were suggestions from the Agency on who could be the next steps in a housing market. During the 2008 economic collapse years, until 2017, little was built. Despite the fact that there were quite a few houses on the track, it's affecting us now. It is now assumed that an apartment will have to be built for the next year, at least 3,500◯4,000. Therefore, HMS emphasizes the stability of apartment structure to prevent excessive ups inflation prices. So national development plans are necessary, not just here in the capital area. The local domestic planning of a community should be able to help assess the need for building up, and since this category has now reached a single site in the system, the group of litigation should be better covered. It was also pointed out that the public needs to provide additional support to increase the number of apartments and to ensure that there is a low - income supply to safe housing. This is best done by increasing the stock market for needy tenants who can provide, by offering lower rents, to influence rent money for the better. Governments and rural groups need to take hold of this group, simplify the principle, and promote greater harmony. A respectable president. One fundamental factor in each person's life is that he has a safe roof over his head. So let's just cut out this theory and deal with it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u13	A respectable president. Yesterday, a report on the position and challenges of Iceland on energy issues was published. It explains the need for energy, with reference to the focus and policy of the government on climate. The status of the transport system, energy market status, supply and demand of electricity, as well as the possibility that these issues could develop for the next month and year, is also reviewed. The report is detailed, and as you read it, you can see that there is a basic work to be proposed in the energy policy for Iceland produced by a transpiritian committee during the last term. It says that it is an important goal to fight climate addiction that energy exchange takes place in the air, in the air, and in the uterus. In Iceland, we have a unique position that almost no fossil fuel is used to produce electricity and house warming. It is an envious situation to be maintained. A respectable president. To live up to our high goals in climate, we really need to examine additional initiatives. It's not just that we have to increase the production of electricity. Instead, we have to improve the transport routes, since electricity transport is really lacking between land areas, especially when we look to the West and the northeast angle. In view of Landsnet's system plans, it is certainly a long-term plan, but the main transportation system on the West is in far too distant future. It is also better to consider options for activation within the region to ensure electrical power on the West. The distribution system on West Fjords is caused by Orcsfjörður Vestfjörður. During the past few years, action has been made to renew it. Then much has been left on the ground, and improvements have also been made in connection with the ringleading of optic cables through the West. But there's no electricity in the area. Power production has to be increased. Electricity is essential for the development of employment and social and energy exchanges in the region. Without it, the fourth will not be able to contribute to government climate goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u14	A respectable president. Refugees come to Iceland and are protected in two ways. On its own, it comes up here, often after a long and dangerous journey, closer to this country and applying for protection. On the other hand, people who are officially invited here by the government are in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization. This group is sometimes called the unfortunate name of the greeting. Only one of these two ways is what is sometimes called, although I may not want to agree with the word, legal. Generally, there is no legal way for refugees to reach Europe. You see, our system is built so that if refugees come to this country, they should be protected but not allowed to come here. There are, however, more ways that can prevent people from going to protect themselves than just the walls we have built around our secure lands and the systems we have designed. People with varying kinds of disabilitys that pose obstacles to everyday life when no war is going on are even more hampered when it comes to rushing away quickly. People who are struggling to escape are more difficult to escape. We may need to rely on help and help, and the circumstances of escape are very difficult, as we know. It is a long journey, it can be bad weather, and getting to a toilet and shelter can be complicated. As a result of EU declarations and response from European neighboring Ukraine, many Ukraine are better able to get to Europe and to safer countries than others. Therefore, I would especially like to encourage the government to further activate a refugee committee as well as the ways we have to formally invite refugees here and go and pick it up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I urge the government to look especially at this group in that work, people who are even more difficult than ordinary people who are about to set off and take on a dangerous journey. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u15	In Iceland, in the outback, there's no sound together. This may be one of the main results of the work group on the energy market published yesterday, called a green book. There's no sound and image, I say, and that's because governments have a variety of policies, a future policy for the Icelandic export, the green carpet, a declaration of the cleaning and binding of carbons, green industrial parks in Iceland, markets, and so forth - all of this calls for greater energy. It is the national part of the country and the population throughout the country that calls for energy to develop. We're out of power today just when we're talking about how our community can grow normally, just normal growth in society, and much less when we talk about the energy exchange and international commitments we've made in that area. To that end, we need energy and we don't have it and much less when we think further, about the expansion of our current industry, or about getting a new green industry. There is certainly a demand, full of opportunities. It is still endless, and it was not even discussed in the report, was not included in predicting energy needs, if we are going to export energy to electricity or so on. It has also been noted that one activation per year up to 100 MWs can be very varied. It can be used in the use of external heat, the use of cooling, all kinds of innovations in solar energy and small gusts and other improved energy efficiency in housing, use of super-products, and things that can be done and done, as agreed in the past, the distribution system, to reduce energy loss, etc. We need to make a sound and a picture together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u16	President. The Ukraine invasion will have many far - reaching and negative consequences, even in this country, even though the consequences will be cut down only on the basis of what people in Ukraine are going through. Of course, we need to take part in doing what is necessary, and the responsibility of all of us here is to be alert to the situation and take whatever action is available. The introduction of foreign inflation in this country will increase in intensity and will further fuel inflation. History includes both history and history. In response to the pandemic crown virus, many depositors dropped interest and, along with financial expenditures, reduced taxes to support the economic situation of households and businesses in an economic crisis. But the economic improvement was both faster and more efficient than expected, leading to an increase in domestic demand, which was especially evident in local and international housing markets. It would be a bit strange, therefore, that here in this hall has been called for specific measures for homes in this position called a candidate, but, apparently, a great deal rather a demand drive and would further fuel the expansion of a real estate market and fuel up the inflation, now that we are standing against the challenge to reduce the growth of the economy. Iceland's late bank has even The goal of promoting continuous and low inflation Of course, the Office's actions may have little to do with inflation due to foreign prices. And although Iceland will not have such direct economic impact on the war, e.g. Because we do not have to witness the huge cost of house warming, as do many other countries, there will be consequences. President. In each of these challenges, it is important to make balanced, reasonable decisions for the future rather than just what may sound better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u17	Honorable President, what. Senators, a good nation looking at us on TV at home. My name is Tómas, called Tommi, and I'm a senator for the Gang of the People. Not long ago, I met a woman who had just come from skiing to Italy. She was describing her journey, how wonderful she would have been in all places, but what she would have had to do with a witness. That was even. proof of vaccination, proof of health care, and then proof of insurance. I asked if there was a proof of insurance? Yeah, if a skier jumps at another man on his feet, he's a liability. Then I started thinking, "We have wonderful flight crews all over the country, people who are volunteering, and we've got land cover that's got helicopters." If some man goes up to the mountains and goes into trouble, perhaps 50, 60, or 70 persons have expensive equipment, and it takes tens of millions to help people who often go into the mountains with a bit of mental confusion. I suggest that people who come here, tourists going up to the mountains and enjoying nature, which is just fine, have to be responsible for what they're doing. It's expensive. I propose that all rescue teams get their patents for fireworks by New Year's Eve. It is pointless to allow ordinary people to import fireworks and take the main source from sports companies and rescue teams. Finally, this wonderful picture of President Jón Sigurðsson, fine. I suggest, in turn, there's a nice clock that we can watch that you always want to know what time it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u18	The president is also preoccupied with what time it is and what it is. A senator was only passing through the talk period. The Parliament's president reminds them to respect the public speaking period, which is two minutes in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u19	A respectable president. Modified circumstances require closer cooperation within NATO and EU. Iceland is no exception. We've submitted a synonym proposal for increased cooperation in security, foreign security and defense. This is a matter we must follow. First of all, we have to bring a plan for increasing Iceland's involvement in civilian activities for the combined activities of NATO. Already, our Community countries have expanded their contributions to the defense and it is only right for Iceland to contribute in our own way. We also need to make sure that a defense agreement with the United States takes in unequivocally to the use of Internet attacks and ensures that our international relationship with the world around us at times of war, such as in transport, energy security, and communication. We need belts and bracelets here. It is unclear how well we are protected in this regard, as has been repeatedly pointed out. We need to assess our interests without prejudice, whether it is right to ensure a permanent defense. It is not in my opinion that the prime minister of Iceland automatically cancels such options, especially when the danger is so high in many parts of the world. And I ask myself, are there any statements like this for home bridge, for use in the sequences of VG, or has there been a real interest in these factors? Then, a dignified president, we see in the public view change. Today, there are less than 10% of people who support our leaving NATO, against NATO. According to recent surveys, half of our people are involved in the EU, which is the largest one in recent years. Direct opposition to the EU has rapidly diminished by a little over 13%. We're getting a lot of changes here. The fact is, the cooperation between security and security and business activities is linked to an unbreakable bond. It's two sides of the same coin. Where cooperation and freedom and economic stability exist, peace is more likely to be attained and then is long - term. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, we must have an active share in NATO, and we are to resolve to ensure that we are fully involved in the European Union. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u20	A respectable president. At the tenure market, 30% of the sufferers pay more than 50% of their provisional items in rents and more than 10% of their provisional provisions pay their rents. Inflation levels are now 6.2% per year, and have not been further for nearly a decade and are rising rapidly. The government was not concerned about inflation, but there must be a change in this, for the rise in necessities now. Who is the primary target of this? Yes, the worst set in the poverty trap of the social security system at the invitation of this and the previous governments. The rate of increase in in inflation is worst among low-payers, whose numbers are of disability and rehabilitation, also among the elderly in minimum pensions, and the worst in terms of 10% less than that, and a cent against a decrease in the current government. That people in the social security system are in general as much need as people who are working hard is wrong. In this regard, it should be noted that people who rely on the pathetic, social, social - security system generally have higher costs for health care, medicine, and other services than the rest of society. To say before the election that they want older ones to have the results of their labor, but they don't mean it, and that governments should cherish the elderly, not burden them with unfair taxation, but do nothing about it is the worst hypocrisy. To say that by election, we intend to eliminate the money shortage of a pension, which is truly a matter of justice, but then do the opposite, is also hypocrisy. What does it mean in English that minimum wages cut 45% of your pension? That means, in human language, there are nearly 70% taxes and impairments. What does it mean in English? Yes, a person with 200,000 bucks. From a pension fund, we'll get 64,000 bucks. - Yeah, just 64,000 off the hook. $200,000. in the social security system. If he has a crown against a dollar too, I'm just saying, "Guð help him, because it doesn't make the government the opposite.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u21	A respectable president. As newcomers, we often sit here in the conference hall after the afternoon and sometimes the evening. You see, it's so fun that when you're here in a small group, you often get the only best insight into the heart and mind of those sitting at the Council. It is during this day that so - called Senate cases are born, bills, and concierges made by members of Congress, either alone or in cooperation with members of their own group or even from all categories. These are often basics that deal with the inconsistencies and nonsense found in the system or that give evidence of what the system is years or decades after the trend in society. Sad to say, however, no matter how good the tips are, these cases rarely have any life in the council. The movers may be allowed to move them, and there may be some on the Senate late in the evening who are willing to join them, now or may strongly protest, but these cases are accustomed to end in the regular committees of the council, where they will die. The only possibility they have of living is that the members of the council they have decided to negotiate that these matters are part of the horse weddings that the party settles on before the council ends, which is usually one or two, and they may be allowed to enter the chamber and at 2rd. A respectable president. This arrangement has to be changed because not all good ideas, changes, and tips can be expected to come through the Ministry and the local department only. We need to allow the cases burned out by members of Congress for having a longer life and at least accessing votes within the council. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm sorry I was late. It's so late in the evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u22	A respectable president. At the same time as the highest. The Minister of Justice welcomes Ukrainian refugees sneaks him into their consultation with a bill to promote the so - called premeditated authorities. The police are expected to get additional sources to spy on people and access their data if the police believe that it is possible for these people to become criminals in the future. The minister gives evidence of these changes in Norway and Denmark. I would have felt that he would also suggest extra police surveillance in line with what is customary in Norway and Denmark. If the police want to take strong care of them, they themselves need to be carefully monitored. In Iceland we have a committee that will not even be informed about police surveillance with public citizens unless the police are aware of it on their own. When the committee calls for evidence from the police, they are reluctant to deliver it, as the director of the Commission announced in the media last year. I am convinced that further police surveillance would benefit her, e.g. Would increase the availability of the media to recorded police cameras leaving no doubt about her work, which is just one of the main purposes of the cameras, according to the chief police officer. The present minister of justice has also said that the cameras are an enormous justice for police officers, since by recording they release unfounded accusations of abuse of power. If there's nothing to hide, there's nothing to be feared about extra surveillance, is there? Instead of promoting premeditated protocols to stop crime, why not build a social support network and a system that prevents people from being led into crime at first? It's a real preoperative operation that works. We should just start there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u23	A respectable president. As the president of the General and Education Committee, I may have felt it was time for me to discuss academic matters on the excellent committee. This week, Hermundur Sigmundsson, a professor who has been eager to talk to us about the Icelandic education systems and the gigant opportunities we have there for our benefit. Achieving in Icelandic education system may be the least of the reasons because it is not entirely clear whether we use proper criteria when measuring relevant factors in Icelandic education and the variables we would like to achieve an improvement. I am here especially referring to the reading of Icelandic youths and to the reading of Icelandic boys. As a mother of three children, I have often resented measuring the pace of my children's reading. I wondered, when such shallowness is being discussed as reading, whether it is the speed or the understanding that matters. To me, that's no question, of course it's understanding, not the speed of it. The reason we had Hermundur Sigmundsson come to our meeting is especially because last week's research site held an education and mental conference on the importance of reading. Hermundur was one of the lecturers, but there were others, both foreign and domestic, and quite interesting findings there. I'd especially like to welcome this initiative at the research site, which is the cooperation of Iceland's University Science and the Association of Professional Sciences. This research site has started a very interesting task now being used in the Western Islands. Although the project has been on for only a few months, how amazing it is to see the success that they can actually measure even now! A respectable president. We on the General and Education Committee will follow up on this matter. It is necessary to improve the reading skills of Icelandic children, and to do that, we must want to rely on the latest and best science in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u24	Mr. President. I've come here to talk about salmon farming, which has become incredibly entrenched in our society and the most important support of our work. I'm not here to talk about the effects on nature. I'm not here to talk about foreign property. There are many things we need to consider, but what burns on me now is democracy. We talk a lot about democracy. We're talking democracy, democracies, democratic society. The inscription is here to be and in my home country or in the East, it is a huge and powerful salmon that I myself have, as the former head of Home management in the Deepvogur, did my part to provide the street for building up these sectors. But what's going on in Sufficiency, where civilian democracy is trampled on, is so tremendously crazy that I have to draw attention to it here before the council and the nation. It violates all the policies and jobs that have been available for decades in the construction of education, culture, and tourism. More than half of the population has claimed to be totally opposed to this structure. How can such a gross violation of the people be viewed, and how can their words not be heard? You have to step in and stand with the people who have suffered enough from the landslides.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u25	Mr. President. It is not common for the poor to have a large reserve, and those with some special savings are generally reluctant to take it out, thus cutting down the special extension of the government insurance agency by 65%, which means that the person who takes out 400,000 bucks. 129,000 k. I'll tax you. It is on top of a $2 60,000 bill. ... ina lossof insurance department. One thousand will remain. of the 400,000 bucks. At the time of the pandemic, it was opened to the possibility that people less than 60 years of age could take out special property. This was not to affect the payment provided by the insurance agency. That was absolutely clear. On these grounds, many hundreds of disability became a special possession of good faith. People did it for various reasons. I spoke, for example. to a woman who has refused dental services for many years, necessary dental repairs, but after the government had actually encouraged people to do so in Covid, she could finally pay for them by taking out her special savings. What happened next? Yes, these insurance payments, the special extensions, were reduced. That was a bear joke. There were 300 micro-organists in this last year. Many of them have been denied correction on the grounds that depositors have not recorded the assessment in the correct tax sector and that we are doing nothing. Then agencies point each other out. The computer says no. I have made a thorough inquiry, both to the Ministry of Social Affairs and to the secretary of finance, to explain whether, how, and when this will be resolved. Our position in the United States is clear. This money is to be returned to the Icelandic state. This money is to be returned to the Icelandic state immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u26	Mr. President. Large increases in necessities call for response from the government. For example, oil and gasoline have come to the highest altitudes. There, the government's pay is high to 60%, nearly 60% of the price. In other words, the government is making a lot of money on world markets. Therefore, there is reason to investigate the provision of fuel, even temporarily, in order to reduce the impact on the public's standard of living in the country. Taxation, such as these, acts to a large extent like a nasal tax. Of course, most people have to get on their way, and most people do so on their own car or by bus, also using fuel, so that the government needs to intervene because it can be of help to this serious situation that we now face. The same is true of a housing market, a real estate market, which is actually a fear - inspiring situation, a condition requiring the administration of the State as it should. lower payment by projects to reduce housing costs. There is, of course, the great loss of property that has taken into account, especially here in Reykjavík. I hear that the members of the management team are now following each other to realize that there is a need for increased energy production here along with plans for noncarbonization, energy exchange. I thought it would be normal for men to look at it simultaneously because they produced these suggestions, but they weren't the complete suggestions, they were primarily designed to arouse an ◯ positive discussion. But here we need energy, in real estate, to respond quickly. Now we can't wait any longer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u27	A respectable president. I view the development of distant health services in the coming years and decades as one of the major developments in our time as being considered to be a globally equal and future. Today, the bioavailability of people of the country is impaired when compared to the capital area. Not in terms of not being available to the services, but as a result of being removed from the organisations most of the expert services provide. And that is exactly the key to this discussion today. As the name indicates, telecommunication services are a communication aid that is used to provide services without patients and health care professionals being in the same clinic or in the same room, thus opening up many opportunities that are not available in the standard arrangement. This means that services that are not rendered outside the capital area at clinics and hospitals, nursing homes, and even homes of people are needed anywhere in the country. Modern solutions from distant home - care services have grown in fish's spine, allowing them to provide a variety of health services, as I said before, in people's homes. Thus, contact with doctors, nurses, and even midwifes can take place in the living room with the appropriate conveniences for the clients of the ministry. However, it is worth noting that at times you may need to see specialists for the first time in real life but follow up. By ensuing national telecommunications, time and money that would otherwise have gone from corner to corner would have been saved. I believe this more efficient bioavailability will increase the application of medical services and will be considered to be effective for the health of the people of the country. Similarly, because of the arrival or rather the spread of more hands in several other locations, pressures within the medical facility are reduced. In this context, it is important that we consider carefully how the current model of payment and the exchange of costs between institutions, which vary according to the extent of the divorce. It also requires researching the tools needed for the job, training the staff, increasing re-education for distant health benefits, and molding procedures. The past few years have taught us a lot about new communications solutions, and what sounded like a future mouse epidemic has hit us well today, especially during the Covid epidemic. It has been suggested that internally active psychologists have offered interviews through the Internet, which has proved to be good, and that is a positive development. I believe that we should view distant mental - health services as a priority on this journey. We know that what psychological care may be sensitive to the person she attends, and although it is truly unique and a conscious awakening in these matters, it can be reasoned that it is the most desirable service to provide for the person, both for the sake of my information here and for the most important reason that the sufferer of difficult emotional problems is often so little that the person can get up. Invasive national health measures for endocrinology, obesity, diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis, hypertension and other conditions requiring long-term monitoring have been successfully administered. The easier access to such monitoring will reduce the number of severe cases and the consequences of many of these diseases. Both endocrinology and mental health are major health problems in our time, and as with humans, it is recommended to use these future solutions at present. However, I would like to keep it safe to say that a remote health service never replaces basic care in the scattered areas of health care, but it is indeed a welcome addition to what calls for many inconveniences for someone in need of such service, travel, vacation from work, and so on. To that end, I want to review the six questions I posed to the highest degree. Secretary of health. What steps have been taken to improve access to telecommunications in groups with difficulty access to health care today, e.g. Why do you live? What is the position of policy development and the induction of national telecommunications? Does a minister have an opportunity for health care in the country to promote distant health care? How should ever-examine personnel in the medical service in order to improve the level of expertise in distant health care? What steps should be taken in the case course of wands and other innovations associated with telecommunication? What health care providers feel that the best way for telecommunications - although I realize that almost everything can fall below but not quite everything - is something that we need to plan above and where can we start? We also need to support a little bit of the people who are doing their part in creating new ways and solutions, whether in connection with eye medicine or mental care or whatever else they call. People have started with ideas, the procrastination projects have started, but they need to be completed with some kind of government support, as well as with counsel on who to look for. I'll ask the Minister to enter it if he can.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u28	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for this discussion of long - term health care. Of course, this is a very broad matter and part of the challenges we face in the health system in the coming years to provide good service and especially to cooperate with the man - made problems facing us and the changes in our age and service of the inhabitants of this land. It's all together; structure, bioavailability, design, as I entered, efficiency, security, and quality. How important it is for us to encourage all innovations and developments in this field! We've chosen it this way from policy development to focus on national and national long-term health services and are working to implement technology and shape a process and guidance around remote health services in order to ensure safety and quality of life to both patients and employees and the relevant data. But there are still walls, I'd like to say, between public service and the innovations that take place in many places. There's something we need to look into and work with institutions and innovations. Internationally, we are well - equipped, and Internet connections are everywhere in most places. There's been an effort on the issues that make it possible for us to pay for access to telecommunications through smart devices and computers. But certainly, like a whisk. A senator in his history is the ability to master the technology between groups, and we need to work on it. Thus, it is vital to work in this way with instruction and instruction and in some cases with special resources. I'm going to respond to most of the questions that arise. A senator submitted here, and this at the beginning turned to the bioavailability. Secondly, why? A senator on the position of policy and the induction of distant health care. The Government Treaty of this government highlights the implementation of digital solutions in the health system and the use of technology to improve the quality of the service and the practicality. Then I refer to medical conferences where the proposed availability of extended health care services is to improve the availability of services that include the use of a remote health care provider. so that we enable users of health care in a way that enables them to employ telecommunications technology in the area of remote health care and to use various brilliant programs in this regard. This course, of course, is a guide for the progress of distant health care. The directors of health institutions are district managers in their medical sector, and of course, along with the governments, are responsible for implementing where and how telecommunications are most useful. There's been some sort of experimental work going on. A senator identified the articles in which most of the research projects have been carried out, and they are very suitable for, where, and how best to implement. It is also important to note that distant health care can be very useful in controlling the flow, that the patient is in place at the right time in the system. There is something that hangs with the challenges we need to look to in our health care. There have been progressive steps to facilitate this trend in terms of legislation and induction of new technologies, but this is taking place very quickly. Covid's holding up a lot of speed. I can give you an example for filming at the Covid parade service, which is actually very, very, very fast work, and brilliant technology new and intelligent in those materials. But I continue in the second talk to address these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u29	Mr. President. By means of a remote health care provider, the patient can be said to be closer to him or her. National and other countries where information and communication technology are used to provide services without the patient and health care providers being in place, national and national health care services are increasing. The opportunities of prolonged health care are many and can save the health system and patients costs and time as well as reduce the pressures of health institutions, i.e. if health care is not improved on other HCPs and is certainly sufficient. There are many opportunities to develop distant health technology in the country. It may be accompanied by improved and varied services at the national parts, increasing availability and timing of response, but, as with routine health care services, public health care needs to be assured that there is a secure and secure communication between an individual and a healthcare professional. The full safety profile must be recorded, treated and provided with data and sensitive personal information. Physicians and other health care professionals must ensure their environment during treatment so that the patient's privacy is ensured and no one else can observe or interfere with treatment during the course of the procedure. Just as there are things to be done with all health care, while innovation and technological development in the area of remote health care will indeed be a great improvement for those who are living in the country but who need service from the Land Hospital, for example, and even granting the possibility of foreign - language services and treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u30	A respectable president. On June 11, 2018, at the General Assembly resolution of a policy based strategy for 2018,2024 was adopted. There is a special section on the provision of a remote health care service that seeks to equal the public bioavailability to the general public as well as to a more special health care facility, with some 140 million going to work on the basis of a community strategy. Precipitating doctors and researchers at Land Hospital have applied for strength to the Ministry of Health to develop remote health projects for diabetic eye exams. The project is a national and national cohesion project of three health institutions and is consistent with the objectives and health policy of the government on distant health care services, as per national guidelines. This request has been rejected by the Ministry of Health, and it seems wonderful to me. The project is the cooperation of the Western Institute of Knowledge, the University of Reykjavík, and four medical institutions, the South American Health Center, the Western Islands, the Hospital in Akureyri, and the Southnesian Institute for Health. Its purpose is to set up screening for residents in the Western Islands, Southnes, and North countries of the East. It is a first step toward the building of a unified service to people with diabetes, regardless of their dwelling place. This service is new in the country and can be expected to be a substantial benefit to the health system, including health care. due to a reduction in patient's travel costs. In addition, automation will reduce the cost of reading images that normally have been carried out by expert physicians. I would like to encourage the Minister to examine this project with a positive mind, for this would be a big step in telepathic medicine in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u31	A respectable president. I believe that telepathy and counseling through the Internet are welcome additions to existing health systems, but it is by no means a substitute for the medical services we've been through, and we want to live on. This includes psychotherapy or mental - health care or advice. We need to secure all Icelanders wherever they live, access to doctors, and not just through phone messages or online messages, but the trend is sadly going in that direction. You can't talk to your old family doctor, as you did over the years and decades. You have to send some kind of message to him through a health agent, and he won't call today, he won't call tomorrow, he'll call me in two days, and then maybe it's too late. I believe that a certain setback occurred in that it is not likely that it would be possible to meet her doctor who has hopefully developed - as in my family doctor's case, who actually saved my life by instinct and saying: I do not trust the hospital emergency department. Get over here straight and get on the screen right now. I was on my way to a foreign country. If not this instinct, built up through the ages, existed then I wouldn't be here today. It's as simple as that. Nothing will replace a good family doctor who has known you and has been with you over the years. That's why I say, "Let's be careful that technology is good as far as it can go, but it never replaces the human factor. " The design problems of Icelandic hospitals and medical and health institutions need to be fixed if they are not employed by Icelandic personnel with foreign countries. There's plenty of offers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u32	Madam President. We live in a health system that is going down because it's still built the same way I was born, which my children say was in the time of the dinosaurs. We haven't been good enough to think of new ways and new ways to solve the pressures of the system. Those of us who live in the Great Nautilus didn't often realize how difficult it is for people out there to get access to basic health care services, to avoid being talked about access to experts. What an amazing improvement it was when you could ask for a new prescription through the Internet or book a family doctor's appointment after three months, which was just the simple solutions that were easily implemented! We also took quick steps, such as the Supreme Court. A minister pointed out, when it was time to monitor Covid patients through the Internet for the last two years. But we can take much more steps to improve surveillance and service to people who suffer from various illnesses. We're seeing experts using technology, like Kara Connell, to provide services over the Internet. There's a lot of attendance opportunities there, for example. in the field of mental - health care, but there are also ways to use our advanced health technology in much more ways. There we need to make sure that out - of - date practices and rules are not stopping us from using this technology. It is important that the Ministry of Health attacks specific work to open prior to use, testing and development of a variety of remote health services and simple pioneers in this field to receive access to an Icelandic health system, of course, in order to ensure that personal and health information is readily available.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u33	Madam President. I think all of us can agree to get regional issues as important as access to health care. People should not have to question their children's lives and health just because they choose to live outside urban areas, even outside the capital area. That's why this discussion is urgent, and I appreciate it. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for starting her this time. We've been discussing these things here before, and it's a pleasure to hear at the top. Minister to take the matter seriously. Clearly, in a small country, you cannot build up the same expertise as the situation on which you live. We have the Hospital and Hospital in Akureyri, who have special responsibilities, but people outside these settlements have to sit at the same table. If we are to build up the whole country, we need a distant health service. Thus, during the construction process, we have emphasized that the public's rights are better defined as access to the health system involved in a distance from service. There is an important part of this work. In addition, we have much space to improve our ministry. I missed that in the government's health policy until 2030, there were clear goals on how things are going to be done. I have certain opinions that the government's prejudice against innovation, private enterprise, and non-profit public institutions in the health system, which were going through the last term. I hope that a new minister will change that, especially as he speaks of it and admits that there are walls between public ministry and innovation, as he spoke of in his opening talk. So we need to take advantage of ideas, ideals, knowledge of people who can continue to exploit us. Public and private cooperation is always important. I am confident that we will not reach our goal in this vital part of health care unless we are sure to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u34	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for the good and important discussion, thank you. paritaprevir Olsen's bell for bringing this up. I agree with that. The last speaker to see how large this structure is. I also wanted to draw attention to this, because we are looking at this natural capital/land, that coming from the Northeast standard, I know the perplexities that can follow to attend any special service on a long road, either in Akureyri or in Reykjavík. Another factor that I find important in this discussion of long-term health care services is increasing rural areas, many of which are difficult for human health care professionals at all sites. I think such telecommunications can be useful, too. Then I'd like to use the seconds I have left to reiterate what I've seen in the past. Both acute and long - term care and lack of cures in the country are extremely serious, and we do not solve it with distant health care. Like what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen said that the telecommunications will never be more than an additional, welcome addition, but there must, of course, be a foundation for the construction and security of the inhabitants of all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u35	A respectable president. The use of telecommunications provides countless opportunities to improve services and equal access. While it is interesting to have a long - term public - health service throughout the country, there are also many new challenges that are important for both the minister and the health - care directors to be aware of. One of these challenges is that health care professionals will continue to be present throughout the country, and their long - range health opportunities and technology will be used to improve their working circumstances rather than on the reverse. This is the point that I put the most emphasis on this discussion today, and I want a zealous minister to expand my goals and measures to do so. There is much to be done to improve the work of health care professionals throughout the country and the quality of the ministry at the same time, e.g. that health professionals in the most distant regions have the opportunity to care for both local and remote tasks in their field or field of interest, using technology to have access to special security and guidance, for example. There are also other challenges, such as the development of funding models, regulations and contracts of Iceland's Health Services. Prior to our shortest meeting in the Northeast standard, we met with institutions that provide health - care services in the area, and it was easy to understand that much is being heard in the medical field. In this regard, I wondered whether a person or a team has a national leadership role or whether evolution is more based on individual initiatives and pools within the institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u36	Madam President. What an important support such public health care is for the inhabitants of the country, especially for professionals who work there, since opportunities to enjoy far - reaching and distant health care are being opened up. But distant health services are also useful here in the capital area and in large urban areas, just to help. Those who need advice from a doctor, nurse, or other health care professional may seek services - they may not need to book an entire period of time at the healthcare professional's clinic. We are to use this service much better, both for the settlements as well as for the urban core here in the capital area. The northern countries and other neighboring nations are far ahead of us when it comes to developing distant health care. In some way, we've talked about this over the past few years, but we've done much less in carrying out what needs to be done. During the last term, I remember hearing from doctors complaining about it at the Covid time when they were making a very distant health care service, that the system did not assume that it could be charged for long-term health care. Medical insurance was not ready to cover the services offered to the doctors. We need to make the whole system work. We all need to include in this if we want to help to make this more efficient and also to cope with the big design problem that exists throughout the medical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u37	President. Thank you for your time. The key to this important discussion is to find new solutions, primarily to find user - making services for people, but it is also an enormous interest in the future, in which we are in the happy position that our people are growing older. We live longer and are healthier longer, but it requires a new approach so that we can be quick to live up to the ministry that we would so like to perform in behalf of all those who need it. During the last term, funding was given to promote increased technology and innovation in the health system. Such a focus will also take place in the Treaty of the current government, and Minister of Neo-creation has expressed great ambition and interest that the Ministry will establish an effective co-work environment for the sceptical and health - care institutions. But to that end, President, the key is to open our public systems to such approaches, not to be developed somewhere in the community, which then cannot find the sound found in the interiors of the public. In this light, bad news was received during the days when a surgeon's interest in the development of health nets, health care, and telecommunications in the medical field were inaccessible and in opposition to public shopping laws. In this case, there is an intervention in the competitiveness of innovation, which has a tremendous negative impact on the innovation environment. President. In view of this news, I hope and trust to the highest. A minister will be alert to the fact that the members and organizations under him do not fall into the habit that they do not have to care much for the important innovations and competitions of other parties, that the emphasis will be placed on the molding of the environment and the environment, allowing pioneers and wands to introduce their solutions, and that there will be a professional system for presentation, food, and the introduction of new solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u38	A respectable president. We're dealing with a long - term health service. The best I've seen in distant health care I've met in Greenland. As one man says, trouble teaches a naked woman to spin and Greenland had to solve the problem, for there were neither roads nor flights at many places there, and we know how the situation can be in Greenland. They made emergency cars, which they use, which is brilliant and if we're going to learn something, we should learn from them. They've solved most of the problems that came up. Of course, telecommunication should be just an emergency. We in ourselves have a long - term health service today, I use it relatively much, and her name is Health Being. She's saved me hours, probably dozens, on the phone ordering medication or just because I need proof. As the situation is now, it may take two months to have an appointment with a family doctor, and if you need to make an appointment with a specialist doctor, you need to wait longer. It tells us that there's something wrong with our system, and we need to get it right. It is also a large group of people who are already having difficulty using the services available today and how much to use, for example. Health because the individual does not have a computer or has access to any other necessary technology needed to enter a health environment by means of the code required to enter it. We're supposed to make sure that everyone can use the services they need in their surroundings and make sure that they can improve health care and get a hospital for people out of the country so that they can get the services they need in their surroundings.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u39	President. I think there needs more innovation in the system, outside the system, but also inside the system, that it is an opportunity to try and test new things, to seize and run with them. That's how I feel about half each. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir said here earlier, but the problem in which the problem is described is the possession, that when the government buys solutions, telecommunications, things like that, some private people must be careful to buy something that is supposed to be public since then that we don't sneak up in some spades back and forth, and when the solution needs to be added or something like that doesn't mean changing and improving, as repeated in the public in recent years. At the same time, we need to take advantage of our opportunities. We also need to consider our local network. A secret to health care is a tool, an additional tool, that is not the solution to all our problems. We also need to consider that we have a body of bottlenecks in the medical system here in the capital area. There are too many things to come here. And we know the weather and so on that it can be difficult when it is a bottleneck. We need to consider the distribution. I would like to have a good perspective, a good organization on how to distribute health care between the various areas of life, how it would be good, how it was perfect, and then we would try to work together on some plan to get there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u40	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for his answers and for those here who have participated in the discussion. This is a very important task that we are here with our hands, and just why we should try to get some perspective on it. We have a Service Card with a Based Office that shows us where a particular service is to be served. Of course, it is not perfect, but it really is something to build on. It's like the highest. A minister said there are a number of guides that are here, which cost time and money, but of course, it is very important to save the dollar and to manage our money, which we are always trying to do, and to take advantage of. I think it is generally, if we can say so, a future savings means making this distant health care service and making good of it throughout the world, especially in the scattered areas. As we have reached this point, there is truly a need for her in the urban area as well. The use of digital solutions is at the head of the Orient. It is a recent Norwegian study that talks about this, and it has established that experience can become an example to other rural areas in the north. This shows that we are doing fine in spite of everything. At the same time, I would also like to be rightd that we all know of the problem of design now ahead, in the near future, but it is extremely important to be with - for example. with a nurse at the National Lands of the East, who was working a certain way of working long hours, too, i.e. in distant health care too, of course, but as a result, the community where the person was very small and did not need all the workers. So I just got to say the best. Minister to the honor of this. I would also like to remind you of and thank you for what was done when the agreement was being made with the light that made it easier for the people in the country to get their services and their caregivers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All of this is extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u41	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank you for this need and good discussion. As you like, you can't get over half of what you want to come on here, this usually develops, and it'd be nice to be able to deal with the good indications that have come up with a lot of very good talks here. I'm going to answer three questions. For example, for example, in the case of an authority official named Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, who may be able to help us in our studies and in what articles may this be most beneficial to us. But I just want to take this into context, for in my first talk, I came to these walls that are facing me. Hv. paritaprevir Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir of this field of diabetes, which, of course, I have not had the opportunity to make an independent evaluation. This project is vast and extensive. It is not that the Ministry has been denied, however, the Ministry does not have a funding grant that it can handle this project differently than capture and review it and give support. There are small innovation grants to the Ministry of Health. But this reminds me that I was a chairman of a Congress resolution for government cluster policy that turns to the ecosystem of innovation. It's an instrument to be used by the Neo-creation Minister. It's a tool that breaks down these walls and creates the interface to connect and work on such projects. These are the walls, the walls we have to break down. It was noted here that we can never divide our distant health services to this human factor and knowledge. But we can certainly use this limited resource, which involves our workers better using remote health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u42	A respectable president. I've come up here to repeat a question I raised and more of it. Councilmen earlier today, to the President of the Generals regarding what the Council can do and will take to address the confirmation that the Ministry of Justice has now been established, under orders and under the highest protection. Minister of Justice, violated the law, and breaking the law of those spoken words, not giving the evidence requested by the Council on the basis of 51rd. Act of the General Assembly at the end of December. So I reiterate my question and ask for a president's answer to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u43	A respectable president. Of course, having to repeat questions to the highest level is getting very tired. A president because he does not answer the questions raised in him directly about the President's conference board. We need to come back up to ask for it. I've had to do this, and this is what we need to do on a regular basis because the president does not respond to very legitimate and reasonable questions. Congress officials will see what he will do to protect the council. He doesn't have any answers. He's got the highest. A president who's supposed to be president of the entire council. Don't answer when they come up repeatedly to the President's conference board. It's been a long time since we asked for this legal party until it came, and now it's finally here and there's no response on the part of a president. All we hear is that he's going to be watching things. This is not an acceptable, respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I'm calling for the highest. In a clearer way, the president used himself on behalf of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u44	Madam President. I agree with what's been going on here. Councilmen. After all the long expeditions that have been made because of the data of the Bureau's highest level. The Minister of Justice has refused to deliver, thanks to the Supreme Court. Ministers, and after all the long hours since the arrival of the President's intervention, and already a clear legal opinion, which may have been known long ago by the president, we must call for a clear response from the Supreme Court. President. What will he do to force the council to function legally? I don't think it's too much to ask the President to step in a powerful way into this mess that we've been looking at for a month or so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u45	Madam President. I've been up here in the conference board before, and I agree with the same views I'm having right now. I'm in no way minimizing this particular matter as a matter of course. Many of the members of Congress have kept up their pace, and there are many of us who are in debt to it, but I'd kind of like to expand this because, apart from this particular subject involving very sensitive individuals and just how we as a community want to receive them, it's also about the capacity of the council to do their job. It is possible to apply the circumstances that now exist on other people - one of the executive representatives of the Commission asks, saying no in spite of the law and the will of the Council, and we are stuck there - and I wondered: " What if it was a high political matter? What if it was a matter of great interest to even more individuals than it does to them? What do we do? [[The president calls.]] What are the next options we have? I think this is a very important question, and I think we need to take the time to go over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u46	Madam President. Like many others in this hall, I have watched the growing marvels of this matter under meeting control. It's time to go to the highest. Minister of Justice has broken the law. It is evident that the Generals Department of Legal Affairs assesses it in this way. Data that were to be delivered a long time ago have not been delivered and the High General Assembly is entrusted to a decision - making minister who still has the support of more part of the members of the three federal states. I was wondering if everybody was. The members of the VG, advance party, and independence party are pleased with this practice and with the decision and whether people in general have considered the consequences of the subsequent action of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to join the above. It's kind of getting weird. I ask myself, " How many times has my talk seat been put up to ask for a solution to this matter? ' How many times does it need to happen? How does this even appear to be so with respect to the council if we cannot comply with the laws and regulations? Then we must ask ourselves: " What advice can we take at the council to force the law to be applied? And then there must be the question: What will the government groups do in this matter? Will they continue unconcerned? Or will they let this crazed minister of justice prevail?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u48	Madam President. As we have seen, the Generals' Legal Department was on the basis of the 51 st. Conventional law is very clear. This is also because the law is very clear. That was always ahead of us. It was always obvious. In fact, it was obvious to those of us who are not even lawyers. It's only written in very plain English. The intelligence rights of the committee are important enough to be written out in clear language. In fact, the duties of the Foreign Institute for Civil Rights do not matter. There is no need for a master's degree in law in order to understand the words of the U.S. National Institute to call for the permission of the police, and the U.S. This means they should, and then they don't. [[The president calls.]] And I find it so strange, Madam President, that the members of the council who came up to protect the respect of the Generals speak all too often to the deaf ears of the one conducting the program. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u49	Madam President. Yes, it's a bad thing that we're going to have to come back here repeatedly into the Alleger's deliverer's chair to pray at the highest. The President of the Generals, not the President who sits here, but the one who has the office, the answer, of being respected for over 100 years of tradition to do this, of granting citizenship, and the respect of the Generals. It is now clear that the Ministry of Justice and the Foreign Institute have been breaking the law against the Council, and there is no answer here from the Presidency. It's okay. It's okay. I ask myself, like, what? A senator did: What if this were some other matter that might touch the heart of the Independence Party a little more? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What if it was about freedom to a liquor store or something?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u50	President. We're not the meeting board for the first time, and obviously we're not in the conference board at the last time about this particular case. I don't think there's any solution because of the highest. Minister of Justice refuses to listen to the legal authority. I don't need to remind you of the trilogy, and I hope I don't need to remind you that it's the job of Generalis to keep track of and support of the executives. But the situation in the world is just a bit sad, and the law has been broken and the highest. Minister of Justice refuses to accept responsibility and to comply with law. I'm just suggesting that we continue to appear in the conference board until the law is respected.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u51	Madam President. Yes, we've been talking about this situation, about the Foreign Institute, with the help, or at the highest pace. Minister of Justice, has refused to submit evidence for application for Civil Rights. For some reason, the General Legal Office was assigned to write opinions on the level of 51 st. Act on the General Assembly, on the authority of committees to call out for information. Now, let's get this straight, Madam President, to page six. The Act on Citizen's Rights simply states that the Allied Council is legally granted national rights and before the application for citizenship is submitted to the General Assembly for its application. It's not a question of any will. This is not a question of the right to get data. [[The president calls.]] It's only legal. We are the lawgiver, and we have not been able to legalize for more weeks since December. [[The president calls.]] What kind of charade is this? [[The president calls.]] Why isn't the President already picking up those files?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u52	Now the President intends to take advantage of the President's conference board, less so. A member of the body is to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u53	Madam President. I don't think there's anything else to do here but to interrupt this meeting and call a meeting to the dog. A prime committee and review the case, review the legal opinion of the law office, and take steps that are proper respect and responsibility for the high Council. It's got the highest. The minister of justice has become found guilty of wrongdoing. That is what people pay for by their office in our neighboring countries. I challenge the members of Congress, those who support the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, to come up here and tell us if they support the highest order. Minister of Justice, Jón Gunnarsson, still in office. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u54	Madam President. I agree with the request of which. paritaprevir That's a matter for Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir to find out what the senators' position is about. But I actually come up here to answer somebody else. A senator, Gísli Hésni Ólafsson, who spoke of the love of the Independence Party of Alcohol Freedom, might view matters differently. I kind of thought it was funny until I realized it's the same group that's been in charge of a large part of the Republic of Germany, and I've talked to you about it, but it's done nothing exactly. It's this kind of virtual freedom of the Independence Party. Maybe it's some kind of virtual law-enforcement of the Independence Party that's taking place now, I don't know. But showy surely is. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u55	Madam President. Here's the subject for one more time. I've been quite clear about my position on this matter. I've been amazed at how slow and difficult it has been to get the evidence from the agency to which we are to be delivered. Questions about us W. V.G., whether we support the government, of course I support the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I serve as a member of her council, supporting her for good works. But I don't agree with everything, and I don't think that's against classes. We can disagree on various manifestations. I just flaunt here that VG stands for human rights, refugees. We want to do well in this field, and I volunteered to attend a council so that I could handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u56	A respectable president. I've been listening to members of Congress, and if I get this correctly, there's an opinion from the legal office from here, from the council, yesterday on this matter. I can't believe that all the inexperienced people that the president of the council will not flaunt their efforts to consult the Ministry and direct them to the minister that they will be listening to members of the council who have come up here. I just can't believe it. It is this scale he stands before, before the administration and the legal authority, and it is to be the legal side. This is very clear. We are asking for these data in order to carry out our work within the General Committee and here within the council. It is clear how we're going to win this thing, and that's why I believe that the present sitting president will direct it to the President Ármannsson, the son of Aargis, that he will use himself for members of Congress and for people who are looking for the council to get these evidence to take care of our role, which we have already sworn to the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u57	A respectable president. It is respectable to present such views as this. Although there is a lack of all other members of the board in this vital discussion of the Senate's ability to protect itself, the directors are not. However, I must make a comment about being in the government and bringing the Independence Department of Justice to a few times and then speaking to human rights and refugees. There are two things that simply do not go together. The course is completely established when the Independence Party conducts the Ministry of Justice. We've only had many ministers of this experience. They have been quite many ministers of the Independence Party who have served this case on behalf of the Independence Party, but the policy remains the same, there is no humanity to be found, and there is no consideration that the human rights of refugees such as the repeated donations of the foreign bill of this government demonstrate, which use the left-hand green have repeated from the government and cannot defend themselves behind any other Ministry of it. [[The president calls.]] It's just lying on their table. This seems to be their will.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u58	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying something. paritaprevir The Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir daughter that meetings will be interrupted so the Senate Prime Committee can assemble. I think there are three members of that committee here, so I can request that a meeting be held, as it is totally below any given issue. If left greens are going to be with people in minority groups, including refugees, including those who are applying for citizenship, they need to show it in action rather than in word.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u59	President. I'll have to agree with anyone who came before, especially the reason. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I'd like to reiterate that the President of the Generals is acting in behalf of the Generals, who, as we say, sits here and doesn't perform the Commission. This matter in itself is crazy. I don't know exactly how this has developed this way. I remember when it was just one story, but it's getting kind of everyday right now to come up here to the conference board and pray to the highest level. Minister to deliver these files. Every time we talk about this, the government's members are gonna be all over the world. But the senators mean well, and I think that's why. Skúladóttir It's a good thing Jodis Sulkydóttir, but you have to have a real holding with the Independence Party in the board. I don't believe that any senators of the left want the refugees well, so you have to show it in action. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u60	A respectable president. You're right. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir says, she has been clear in her attitude on this matter since the first day. It seems to me that it was January 25th that we discussed it as a seizure. A senator felt that he was an unscrupulous, unscrupulous, unscrupulous procedure in the Ministry. I agree with every word. Two days later, it was used roughly. A senator's statement is that this is an extraordinary and unsurpassed method of action. Heartfeltly, too. It's been 40 days, though, and we're still in the same place. Still, the situation is as crazy, empty, and unacceptable as what? Yes, at the order of the Minister of Justice of the Government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. It is not related, however, to the minister who is responsible for these reckless tactics and the pack of unions. A senator belongs. There must be some ridicule in this administrative work other than that of coming here and joining us in a talk chair. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm asking, "Why be in a government if it doesn't matter hvernig Jón Gunnarson treats the General?" [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u61	I want less of it. Congress is scheduled for a speech session in the President's conference board for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u62	A respectable president. What facts do we have on this matter? Yes, the law is clear. The law is clear; the council and the committee have the right to receive this information. The law office has also issued a clear message: We are required to obey the law. But lawlessness seems to prevail, and it is entirely the responsibility of the government. This isn't really going to make a sound or a picture together. Somehow we are in a situation where we are sending out a message from the General's symposium that at the General Assembly has not followed the rules and laws. Of course, that is a serious matter. It must be a question of whether the government can simply sit down when it cannot even comply with law and order.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u63	Madam President. The one standing here is neither bent nor back partly, and I refuse to allow the discussion that nothing has happened for weeks and that we are doing nothing because we found on average once or twice a week as we review the data received from the Foreign Institute. The government is likely to do other things and surrounding something more than the work of one minister. Many matters are being taken care of in many times. My outfit is maintaining. Other categories provide a different means. I'm proud to be in a VG... I know, thank you very much for a good tip. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I actually thought you were a man when you were in a box, but I'm a natural new guy. But, yes, that's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u64	President. A legal sheet to which we received yesterday is not merely a violation of the U.S. National Institute of Iceland by not delivering the data, but it says that the data should have been delivered within seven days of the request. However, the General Board of Education and Education saw pity in the Foreign Institute where it was possible that this was just some misunderstanding because some letter was ever sent by ministers in June that no one saw or saw it, and gave it a delay to February 1 to return the requested data. However, it became clear very quickly that they did not have time to process the data. Instead, we simply received a direct no, we are not going to deliver the data, and we are not going to refer to the 51 st. Congress simply does not have anything to do with it. I only want to protest what was said in a case. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson Fridik's work just now is not a hieroglyphic case. You see, I think it's very political, and I think that's why we're in the position we're in today. [[The president calls.]] By doing nothing about this, the situation has actually become that the process has been cut off. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Slowly we get the envelopes received in October. What will happen to the applications that follow? Nobody knows. Probably nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u65	Madam President. I've recommended this bill why. ...and a board of directors at a council meeting yesterday. That led to a consistent conclusion. This case has to be moved by a board of directors and board of directors until it is necessary to make these correctations of the election, which are the law that was approved last year, the law of No. 112/2021, here at the great Council. We discussed this, and that was the case with 1st. Yesterday, including ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Lenyu Rúnar Taha Karim, of course, that it would be strange for us to stand in this situation just as soon after the law, or the code of the law, was granted here at the General Assembly. I agree with it, as I did yesterday, but the changes have to be done, and I think everyone here is aware of this in the High Council that the changes must be made so that local elections can be performed in spring and stand so that no one can doubt their legalities. Sadly, we have recent examples that make us aware that this matter will not be too careful. The bill's report says, Madam President: ▪ The 1st January 2022 took on new election laws, No. 112/2021. These laws made great changes to the arrangement that has been implemented. The law set up an independent administrative committee, a government government, now overseeing the implementation of elections and elections in place of the Ministry of Justice in the past. The minister appointed the district government, which began on January 1 of that year. It's like everybody's driving. Councilmen know this is a fundamental change in how we conduct elections. In the process of preparing rural elections, which occurs on May 14, 2022, there have been defects in the law that are inevitable to correct without delay. Use tipranavir with caution including has been received by the Ministry of Justice from the Commission of New elections and the head of Reykjavík. Then the national government has discussed the matter, and it concluded that it was very important that the necessary changes in law be done as soon as possible, no later than the previous March of March. And as we all know, today is March 9, 2022. There has also been a challenge to the head of the city's administration that the bill of needed changes in election law, on the reference date of elections and deadlines, will be submitted as soon as possible. The supreme fault of the law, as we have seen at 1. .......... turning the dates to the reference date and the time of the oer to be announced. This discrepancy makes it impossible for those who have been informed 36 days before the election day, but it is essential for the administration to determine whether candidates with candidates are voters in the local community and therefore whether the qualifications for the administration are met. If you look at the coming election, you will have to report any offer to the government at no later than 1 00 p.m. 12 Friday morning, April 8, 2022, with a set date for the graduation date at the end of the year. 12 noon Monday, April 11, 2022. Then Iceland's National Publications Index shall be advertised that the elected files were prepared on Thursday, April 14, 2022, and a list of oers should be published no later than Thursday, April 14, 2022. Clearly, it is necessary to move the sufficiency date so that it is before the deadline is complete. That, of course, is fundamental. In accordance, the deadline of reporting to students in the North countries and the date of the national registry of Iceland should be at the latest advertised. The bill suggests that these reference dates change, making it a part of local elections in the coming spring that the set date for elections would be at hand. 12 noon Wednesday, April 6, 2022. The application of Icelandic students in the North has to be made to Iceland's National Records no later than April 4, 2022, and no later than Friday, April 8, 2022, the National Book of Iceland will be advertised that the markets have been prepared. The change will not affect the date of the deadline, or when administrations should advertise a list of oers. It's important too. The guidelines in the bill are about minimal date-separation. The bill is first suggested that the reference date of the target files be removed from the elected date, i.e. He'll be 38 days before the vote day, instead of 33 days. In line, there is the last day that students in the states of the North also have to register for an elected file, making it 40 days before Christmas Day. At the same time, the last day is to advertise the optimal files to be 36 days before the elected date, instead of 30 days. Second, there are some necessary adjustments, both in election law and in the laws on political functions, e.g. has fallen, references to law are not correct, and has been forced to cancel reference to points that were on the bill to vote but turned into church relations. In other words, there is a lack of a proper reading. Third, it is suggested that the district election be permitted on May 14, the second to send non-conceptual vote letters to the businessman in the district where the voter believes he is an elected file, as well as to be considered, and not to consider votes paid outside an elected meeting invalid, even if they use older sufficiency. This is also very important to respect the voters' rights. Fourth, the bill suggests that the number of Parliaments in the Northwestern District and the Southwestern districts will be changed according to the country's U.S. government's advertising. 1108/2021, October 1st, 2021. This change requires that the next election will be held in the northwestern district, with 14 members of the Parliament in the southwestern district. Fifth, it is suggested that a new law be added to legal requirements for legal divorce after a new election law has instituted and the release of markets by the government of the United States has been canceled. It requires that the government should give a report to the vice - council members who did not receive elections after the September 25th, 2021 elections and send the names of the Generals and deputy members for publication in the Government News in accordance with the changed 113th chapter. An election song. There is reason to consider these changes carefully here so that members of the council can ponder them and reflect on their attitude toward them. I think there's probably a request to make these changes. But I have to reiterate my position that it is inconsistencies, by the overall review of a law book, to have to work on legislation twice in the head. The management and monitoring committee so that local elections can be held, as it was in February of a number of rural societys, and it is now developing that this is a miscommunication due to dates and postponement of the release of the terms and the submission of the funds to those involved. But we live here at the High General Assembly and, of course, we will do what we can to set this up in the law that no doubt about the rights of voters and that the votes of the district elections can be elected, the votes made out of elected meetings or on the market, and that there can be no doubt about the legal initiatives so that there can be a list of references, ideals there are, that everything is legal and rural elections that will be done in the country within the 14th of May, are completely in agreement with the laws, regulations and customs of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u66	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator with a clear review of the bill. I agree with her that it's unusual that we are so often changing the law that has recently passed through an overall review and then shortly after it's approved. I'd like to recall that when this was done here a year ago, I was sitting at the DC, and patrol, very extensive changes were made from what was brought up in the bill. In view of the fact that errors were often due to lack of conversation, the possibility of a more extensive change is to be considered. However, there were major factors associated with the mechanism of the implementation of a campaign that was turned upside down in the treatment of the Committee. For example, in the bill, it was suggested that the government be put down, and then they were reassigned. On the last day, the option was issued for email elections, but a great deal of powder had been made on the committee; it was decided at council treaties to meet the Central Party and cut it out. So there were things that led to this. There are preliminary rules on certain aspects of the campaign law, and I would like to ask specifically about an electronic election file that is a point that the city of Reykjavík pointed out could become complex, so it was chosen to be selective whether the rural society would use an electronic election for these elections and then the experience would be evaluated thereafter. It was all supposed to go through the Ministry and the reports and the committees and all kinds of stuff. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if the senator knows where these matters are, if there's a plan for an electronic program that could be used in some test group.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u67	Madam President. I don't know that electronic records have been introduced in rural communities. It may well be. But like a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said that bringing her in was actually a very selective thing to do. We know that there are many rural communities, and they have different means of implementing electronic records, and, of course, preparatory periods need to be used as well as others. If I get it right, that's even better. Because electronic records are not being introduced everywhere, or they are being used to do so, that these reference dates are changing, otherwise they wouldn't be so available. But I feel that the main thing is that this is a complete reexamination and major changes were made on the bill as I understand it - now I was not here at the last assembly - in connection with the council. All right, but it takes more time to process and introduce the changes in the Ministry of Justice, and in this case in the rural communities that run elections, than it did during the day, that the amount of time planned has been too short, and that's why we've been in these reveries here for the winter. Now we're a pretty timey people, always thinking that everything takes less time than it takes. But as far as this is concerned, these are our election laws, I think we need to face the fact that here, especially, needs to be careful. You see, legal mistakes can lead to very serious consequences, so I don't talk about failures in the implementation of elections that can also be serious.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u68	Madam President. I'm reviewing the coverage here a year ago, on the overall review. There were some strange changes suggested in the entire campaign effort. I mentioned the electronic appendage first, but it was not just the smaller communities that saw its potential problem, Reykjavíkurburg, made a significant comment because of the fact that there would be a way to organize the ideal sites. If people were encouraged to attend just anywhere and choose wherever they seemed to like, it would no longer be possible to ensure that people have access to an elected location of about It's evenly into every ballot. One thing that makes the election accessible is that the Icelandic voters can almost assume that they do not have to be in line. People show up at the polls, and in two to three minutes it's over. We just saw how the induction of electronic drivers went in the fall election, it wasn't easy, and it caused delay. Too short a time for induction - I also fully agree. Fortunately, we do not have some of the most strange changes in the law. We killed, e.g. the law to label a ballot before being placed in a jugular box that had changed the election's ceremony so much that trust in faithful conduct might be thrown into the wind and might have led to mass destruction on a pile of votes. I'd like to ask myself, " Is there any reason why there will be a special complaint, that some group, or committee, or whatever it is to control the Amblers that may still be in the text? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u69	Madam President. That may be the problem. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson was right about the need to look into all these changes in particular. They're at least Depending on how the situation was handled, you must ask yourself: " How was this handled? We have a vote in this country. The election laws and the conduct of secret free elections are the basis of democracy and the foundation of the democracy. The way it works, the way it's guaranteed, like the driving. A senator pointed out that access is good, that people know where they're going, that they don't have to wait long, that all performances are under constant pressure - all of these are basic to elections that hold up an opinion in a state that teaches themselves to democracy. I'll have to think a little bit more about whether it's a role anyway. Administrative and monitoring committee to review the legislation. This may be necessary. These lines we've dealt with here for the second time in the winter may indicate that there may be other features in this code that need to be slanted through, even making changes or bills, so that everything is in harmony with what we want it to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u70	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, The Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir, for the history of this case. Now, the law being now changing, once again, to correct it before elections, is, in fact, approved just before the Senate's summer break, before elections began. The fact that the election was in the fall, I think I also have a lot to say about how late we made this mistake. When there's an election in the lake, there's not much else that can come up, and many things that are waiting for you. And then, when it takes more weeks to pay from voters and more weeks to form the same government that had been formed in the past, the time for nothing is growing and the time we have to do our work is reduced. I'd like to reflect on the fact that the early elections have led to many negative consequences, and including the fact that we're rapidly getting closer to rural elections and that it's not a good mold to be changing elections so short before elections, except that it's incredibly strange to have so short between total elections and district elections. [[The president calls.]] I may not have a direct question to why. A senator will know whether the fall elections put extra stress on the committee. A senator for whom she is chairman.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u71	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Thord Ævarsdóttir Sunna these thoughts. They are very important. The election law was passed here at the high Council of June 25, 2021, exactly three months later, and it will be two long months before the election takes place. For five months, after the sentence of this law, the Council was not at work, and we, who are here, know what was going on that month. I don't think there's a question that it affected the Council's work that it was coming in autumn elections. We know what it's like when ministers have to run a little bit of their plans for an election. They try to make up for it, but that's still the way it is. The election is just over two months for the district election, now March 9th, and it will be chosen in mid May. I think we're also getting involved here that not only did it become a long break in the Senate work last year - then a Senate hearing was started and this was done on budgets and other dates for the year and early January - but it is as well now that, according to the greater part of the council decision, much of the Council was made. There is also a rise in councils. My theory is that the lack of any written requests from members of Congress is being answered, including, asking for a postponement. Because members of the board, which, of course, are all trying to do their best, are merely deeply involved in organizational changes. First there's a long pause, and then everyone is in the middle of a organizational change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u72	Madam President. I agree with what. Sveinbjarnardóttir It's a good theory. Added to this is the fact that the number of mistakes in the bill is an example in the negative consequences of this disorganization at the council, indefinitely, and always. Waiting on big and important matters until the end of the council is to mean that they are not given enough careful treatment, that's not enough time to work them well, that's all too much pressure on committees to close matters quickly, and that's how the mistake is made. It's one of those things that's done right under the end, which means there's a tremendous time pressure to finish it. This, of course, is man's work, and it could be organized much better than it is today. I mean, part of it is deliberately done, always putting the council in this time pressure to make it harder for the government to maintain control of things, to keep an eye on what's going on at the council, and to be able to get a good grip on things. But something else: Because of our struggles. Of course, a senator shares the honor of being a senator for the Southwestern district. Of course, an interesting change here is also, such as no respect for an angle. Rather, the journey is being used to update a certain problem of injustice, which is increasing the number of members of the district of the 14th century. This is something that should have happened before the last election if there was some justice in the election law in Iceland. We in the Pirates, and others in the government, tried to get the government to change this arrangement, that some votes are far more important than others. [[The president calls.]] Because we were talking about observing the implementation of this election, isn't this something that needs to be done better and faster?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u73	President. Last year, I inquired about the growth of senators in a Southwestern district and received answers that there had not been enough political will in the World Congress to update the population of the General Assembly election in September. It describes a political reality that we, as Southwestern senators, know well, and must claim, as it is, that in this Council, the debate on the equal importance of votes has been reduced to a very long, almost decades, even though many matters have been discussed. I'd still like to come back to my previous question. A senator for the fall election. I think it is obvious that autumn elections are not suitable for the traders and the departments, for the Council, for the Council of the Council, and for the budget and for which it is decided, and that it must bring a very serious thought to secure the elections, to set an election day, so that it will take place until spring, or early summer, as it is decided, every four years. I myself believe that it is time for total elections every four years and for the fall of a government, it is the task of the Council to keep a government out between the General elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u74	Mr. President. We're here discussing a bill to correct the change of election law and law on political organizations and we're changing these laws one more time. I don't make comments on the subject of this bill's subject, of course, that's right and it's my duty to deal with the flaws that have come in order to maintain a good political election, which are exactly the way it has just been done here, just about to happen. It's just over two months. Then there is no later time for a change in election law. In fact, it is far beyond the standard, such as. An OSE or an election - control program in the world has suggested, which is six months or even a year before elections, i.e. that changes in election law are not made after that time to ensure the safety of the election. This may indicate much slowness in the last term in bringing this bill into force. Of course, it was shocking that an overall review of the election laws could not have been completed before the elections that took place not even in the spring but in the fall. In fact, the government bought an additional six months and still couldn't come and finish the election bill at a reasonable time for the General election. That would have made a difference in the last election. It would have, for example. ... if these laws had been in force but not the old election laws, because it had to be brought back before the entire election because the law was too late to approve of those elections. But now, as mentioned, we're in the final meters of the county election in some way. It is, of course, a terrible thing to do. I refer to the conversation I had earlier. A senator and a what. Chairman of the Board of Directors and Control Committee, Sveinbjarnardóttir Child, how the fall elections have also affected how late we are putting these changes into work and, of course, to have it this late at the last legislation which meant that circumstances for mistakes were just very good, if it were, so to speak. At each end of spring, there is considerable confusion, so not to say, let alone when it ends the last election before election. This government decision, to keep elections in the fall, was bad for many reasons. It was a wicked one simply out of the position it displayed toward the next government. It's possible you've got the highest. Ministers see they'd just stay in the government, all right? They did it but if they hadn't done it, the next government, a new government, would have been living with the financial laws of an advanced government for a quarter of the election period, had got them in their arms. There's nothing democratic about that, Mr. President. In addition, this, of course, put tremendous pressure on the council for the development of budgets, which also produced very productive soils for mistakes and very sterile soils for democratic discussions, for compromises, for what the Parliament is to do, as it is to be the basis for discussion and criticism of the government's budget. This was the third time I experienced having almost no time to place myself in the budget, to cover the budget. But the other two times were at least Perhaps it could be said that there was nothing to do with it. There, a government exploded because of a very ugly scandal that was infuriated with honesty, silence, and efficiency toward the then prime minister and his father. It may not have been up to me to announce an election immediately, even though I agree with it. Sveinbjarnardóttir It seems possible to disqualify the council when a government explodes, instead of being always giving an election in hopes of reaching a better outcome next time, as though it would often seem to be the motivation to try not to create a new government, as can be, according to current law, but rather to announce an election in the hope of going to some century success, as though it were a rather important purpose behind the last election's proclamation. No, there was nothing that lay ahead or was inevitable with these fall elections. It was simply very clear. The objective and purpose of autumn elections was to sit on thrones as long as possible. There was no other goal behind it. There was nothing pragmatic about it. Only the government itself could benefit anyone, and neither was it to facilitate the council's work nor to the next government involved. The purpose was simply to hold the government a little longer, but not for so long that they were forced to make financial contributions. This was, in fact, as long as it was possible for them to sit on the thrones of power without being forced to show off the cards by making contributions, which, of course, is remarkable. Thus, the issues of autumn elections are varied. This bill illustrates that this also results in the implementation of elections, district elections, for the work of the Parliament, which now must speed up this matter, and therefore cannot provide it with the best political treatment and should, in fact, be done. Then there's this weird situation where there's a fall election and then there's a country election in spring, and I don't think it's a good position, a respectable president. It's not a good position to have so short between election election elections and district elections, because I think it's all right for the public to have a little vacation from elections in between. It's also because there's a lot of trouble and a lot of time that goes into making elections. There's nothing positive about having such an amazingly short time between them. This now seems to be a project from now on. I can't see any better, and I can't hear from a special discussion here at the council the other day than the fact that this arrangement is going to continue, at least, unchanged. in the time of this government. I don't think it's an exemplary, respectable president. I feel that we need to discuss it with the state level, which has no choice of when it will have its elections, how these matters should be handled in the future. So, then, do we need to move to a local election to give way to better space? Do we need to change how we do business? How many actions, how many tasks do we have to change and a later so that the throne of Catherine the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir can ride a little longer? There will be a lot of them when all is counted, and this bill is just one example of that. But because of what we're doing. Sveinbjarnardóttir And I'd like to introduce it to a couple of senators in the Southwestern district. There is nothing democratic about a single voter having a double vote right to the voters of another district. I've asked the highest. Bjarni Benediktsson is that I also directed this to him on a radio show for elections, what justice would be in his voters of the Southwestern District, for he is, for he is a senator in the southwestern district, half the vote for the voters of the Northwestern district. He was not particularly impressed with this question, so he answered her in a way that would require a thorough inspection of the matter before something would be done in it, if I recall correctly, the Supreme One. Of course, a minister is free to come up here and correct me. But I was amazed because the rulers were given one shot after another before the last election to change this injustice, to correct this error between the voters of this country, to restore this democratic palace. You would have thought that the head of the party, who decorates himself with the word democracies party, might have shown some character or will to ensure that the voters of his own district had a democratic right to other voters in Iceland. The voters of his district, and that is largely for his own benefit, have a minimum vote in Iceland, and have most members of the council compared to the number of people in Iceland. This is a blessing to him, saying that while there are obviously a number of ways to cope, there have been many alternatives before elections and that all of them have been rejected. So, yeah, this bill is only fixed, but it's still enormous. There's something that we all must take to ourselves as members of the council. One person and one vote is a fundamental prince to be honored by democracy, but we, because of the interests of groups that make money on this system, let's just let it stand unconcerned. This, of course, is available to the groups that profit from this system at the expense of the democratic rights of voters. It's the Independence Party, and it's the Special Force, and now it's also the left movement of an offer that stands in this clot. Of course, we will pay this bill a way through the council, a respectable president, for it is important that the election laws be clear, they are correct, there is no basis for doubting their value, and for votes on time, etc. Let us, though, allow this to be a theory to the council's organization, to the interests of governments as to when elections are to be, when it is convenient for them, and to work well and well in advance if they are associated with elections. It's just that it's extremely important, more dignified, that election laws are begun above any doubt, that they are ready, and that they are clear for elections. I always feel like we're driving ourselves to some wall in these chemicals. As a result, I find that a good idea was presented to me, as it were. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's earlier job is to see if there are any more problems there, and even if there are no democracies to be found in these laws, as I've been saying here because the election is, of course, on the topic matter. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. I think this committee would also consider what we want to do with our future elections. What's a fair election? What is justice when it comes to elections? I'll finish my speech with a respectable president to say, "The right to choose must not be taken as trivial or as some formalist, as we are sometimes attacked by someone who wants to protect the rules of law. " This is a fundamental course, and he should be treated with dignity. The rules about him should not be changed. You have to be good at what you do when you're going to an overall review of a law column like this. I'm afraid that doesn't seem to have worked. Of course, it's very sad, and maybe especially for the carrier of the bill, huh? former Senator Steingrímur J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for extensive passage. Since I sat in my seat, I considered just how this case has been, because we are often wondering how things are rushed through the council, that cases come here at the last moment, etc. I would assume that these laws have already been changed a few times. When I began studying the history of the process at council, I also noticed that the law was directly changed, as it seems, on the day that they were approved in June. Then, in July, the Senate had to assemble in the middle of the summer to make changes in the U.S. elections because there had been some changes in that law. Then, in December and now, changes in those laws had to be made, despite the fact that three changes were made when this case was being treated at the Council of II. but also between the 2nd and 3rd. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does she remember anything like this in the first year of its existence?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u76	Mr. President. Now I'm trying to remember. No, I don't remember anything like that in such a short time. But I feel that all too common is that we are repeatedly changing the dates, the sums, and the other in the commission work because of the mistakes that occurred just because the council had to hurry so quickly to finish this bill or the rest. This often happens, e.g. ... followingaborrowment. Things must be saved at an angle so that people will be strong or they won't lose any rights or rights or what they are now. But such frequent changes and changes that same day -- no, I don't remember. But this may be a fine testimony to the failure of the congregation's planning. The Ministers are repeatedly profaning a case into the council until the last minute - it is evident that this will happen again at this council as if it were actually happening at each assembly - and giving up cases in the final meters that the council is supposed to work in such a tremendous hurry. Then, at the council, fix some mistakes that had to be made because the council had to work on matters in such a hurry. I think this is a sign of how much the European Commission really has to do with this and how much respect it has for the council because we're always being loaded up and we're not taking the time to win them. Then we should correct the assignment afterward because there was not enough time to do it properly. It's a vicious circle that starts here every year, and it's very tired. [[The president calls.]] It doesn't have to be this way. You can do much better than these more things and other more of the things I've experienced have been doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The library is used as a legal explanation, often to see what the Lawgiver's will is, how the discussion was, when things happened, etc. When the election is considered, and fortunately it's electronic, it takes a lot of time to reveal a change in the election law, by law No. 113/2021, and it says it went into effect on July 16, 2021. I remember this summer council. It was called quickly to summer convention in mid - July 2021. Clicking on the bill that became the law of July 16, 2021, in the Hall of Laws that we support, says that there is a law on the change of election law - this is just the name of the bill - adopted at the General Assembly on June 13, 2021 (called on the preparation of legislation). In the 5th. reads: This law is already valid. And at the bottom, at the Council on June 13, 2021. It became the law of June 25, 2021. However, it says here in the library that these laws went into effect on July 16th. Then you wonder: " Is this just another example of what we're doing here today, that it's changing this important law, total law, campaign law, and the legal evidence is somehow going on? How will we prevent certain harm from there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u78	Mr. President. We prevented the future from causing certain harm by pursuing better practices at the General Assembly, by preparing well and by allowing everyone to come to the table. It is also remarkable that the government's opposition is kept out of everything, and no time is allowed to look into the situation, as if we have nothing to offer, as if we just want to destroy everything that comes from the government and do nothing good when things get done. We need to get together for a summer break because something missed or because some date was wrong or something like that. If the Senate work was more organized and more spaced out, I don't think we'd experience so much mistakes and so much of the confusion. A senator was describing his opposition. If the more part came to the administration position earlier to discuss the issues he would like to come through, even to negotiate a case, and if more cases were done from the beginning in cooperation and consultation with the smaller section, I think it would be possible to prevent much of these mistakes and also prevent the pressures that will always be at certain time points. The pressure can be spread evener. All it takes is a democratic attitude, but is the ruler of Iceland's government today, and now it's worse than ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u79	Mr. President. We're here on bill to legalize the change in election law and political law on how to operate, on the reference date of elections, and more. You can't say that you don't agree materially with what you're doing here, there's a number of things you have to do there, but as noted, we're still here, changing elections with some crusader to this important matter. The election law needs to be a little bit. They must not be in that they tolerate a highly estimating interpretation because these are the basic rights of the public, the basis of democracy, that people have their right to vote, have their right to volunteer, and that they have equal clarity and clarity in these matters. This is the foundation of democracy. It's sort of amazing to go through the career of this case, campaign law in the first place, which, of course, was a complete re-election of the election law, which many of which certainly came to, and then the sad ones that have happened since then, both of them in the election laws, and as I pointed out earlier, they were changed by law no. 113/2021 the first time. This legal bill states that it was approved at the General Assembly on June 13, 2021, and that it was adopted already in the Law Museum that this took place on July 16, 2021, so it is simply a discrepancy in the Law on the duration of the law and the execution of the law and the judicial decisions. This was changed again by the end of December, when it was found that local elections that were ahead of them could not be carried out, they had forgotten to consider that ahead there were various kinds of local elections for mutual unity and the events that have taken place today, I think, in all respects. It was forgotten to assume. But it's also interesting to see that on the record at the council, there were quite a number of changes in proposals from the greater part of the administration and monitoring committee. The Chairman of the day. The administrative and monitoring committee, then chairman, Jón Þór Ólafsson, was also required to submit, in the name of the Committee, some of the changes made here and approved. It was not as if he wanted to make any adjustment that the committee had not wanted to make. Rather, it was an adjustment that he had to make after calling the committee. The administration and monitoring committee were implemented together with a change in proposals. Evidently, then, the law office, or other jurists, saw that the document was already being completed by the General. But it is not enough that there are three changes, in fact, from the greater part of it. Command and observation committee immediately at 2nd. Rather, it took an ancient man. The management and monitoring committee is due for the 3rd Environment. with another adjustment. This suggests that the matter itself, the bill itself, was simply not mature enough when it came to a vote at the Assembly Hall. It gives us reason to discuss in general how things are done when they come here. Of course, they may not be perfect, completely complete, or they may be made up of mistakes, especially when it comes to total legislation and a lot of changes. But that's, I think, the fundamental thing to listen to us in the government position primarily when we're pointing out that a complete reexamination of the law is not going to work at the last moment before the end of the council. It's not working at all. There's no doubt about it. But that wasn't the case, but I'm just saying, God if it had been so, too, because we're standing here today, approaching mid-March months, when the government groups were going to bring over 100 cases into the council for a spring payment. I think we've got 40 cases from the government in a building. And what does that mean? Of course, this means that there are a total review of basic issues on the way that the committees should complete. I've been since I took my seat at the Generals has come up here at least every month, definitely every week, and called at the highest rate. The President of the Parliament and the Chief Magistrate. Minister of the government to be careful, to give the General an opportunity to be careful, to be careful. It is so incredibly important that these are laws that must be clear, they must be transparent so that the common people who are going to do the law, and ministers who are going to do the law can understand the law, they must be able to study them. That's basic in the Three Laws. They should be general and clear so that people who are going to enter the law understand them. Then we come to another subject of my own which is that Congress is living between council members. Several attempts, including those, have been carried out. by members of the United States Congress, to further the change in the political affairs between members of Congress because it would be a great success for the International Parliament. Well, first of all, this would be a very legal problem because it wasn't this hand-back job here at the end of the fall and the spring. They'd have the bills developed before they became legal, we'd have a more careful practice. Second, it would save quite an amazing amount of time and energy because we would be talking about not always starting from scratch every fall. There is no need to start by rephraseing the same matter here at the Senate Hall, the same matter as the other. All I know is that there are a few issues on the program here, politics, which are being transferred unchanged from the last council. The number of cases we have been with today remains unchanged since the last council, even though they have received extreme criticism from all sources. At the beginning of a comment that reads: "The review is a consistent review of the last and last council. We see that the bill remains the same despite our indications, so we have no reason to change the subject to a different extent than that we will change the date of its head. What is this respect for the time of the people who sent their knowledge into the Generals, the time of the Generals, the time of the General staff, the paper, the forests, the work of reprinting the same matter, the assembly after the council? Of course, Mr. President, it's absolutely unscrupulous. There's something that I think we should work on next time. Third, I want to make a comment and was present at the moment. The management and monitoring committee when I sat there during the last term. It was on the basis of Congress. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson moved at least Once, certainly twice, maybe three times, I don't know, I don't know what he often brought it, countless in memory, which became an election age. In the process of doing that case. The management and monitoring committee - the case we'll remember failed to reach out for something, there were some executives who definitely didn't want it to end, did not want 16-year-olds to vote, were allowed to vote. [[Take it up: Name them.]] I just don't remember, it was just a division in the government because of this. I was asked to name those who were opposed. In the process of this case a lot of discussion was made about introductions to voters, that the Ministry of Justice, the Home Department, would have to start taking it seriously to perform adequate presentations for potential voters. It appears in some way that when it comes to new voters, which, due to age, may be chosen for the first time but at the time. The board and the board of directors were we, and the one listed here, as well as the one to think of new voters who had moved to the country and received permission to vote, because of the statistics being taken in these cases and how people of foreign origin and people of Icelandic citizenship who gain Icelandic citizenship by law or government decisions, it is found that it is not quite good enough. We are responsible, and the government is responsible for neglecting this group, not to introduce to this group that he may enter the election because this is a basic human right. I remember that before the last mayor's election, Reykjavíkurburg took the stand and sent a covering brochure to new voters, just to a group of people who may vote, you have a vote in the community. It all went crazy and was thought to be some kind of propaganda. But this is a spontaneous service from those who represent the election. The election, of course, is the State to care for. The Ministry of Justice performs elections and is to take care of informing voters of their rights. There was a lot of talk about this, and we put this special emphasis on this and good if we did not put this on the committee's opinion at this time. I was not able to study the Committee's opinion when the election law was passed, when this complete re-election took place, and we had a whole new election, where we made out to have it in two law columns, on the other hand, the U.S. elections and the U.S. elections, it's just a vote, it's all in the same place. I didn't want to examine the committee's opinion here to see if there had been a judicial hearing to the government to introduce, both to young voters who were getting the first vote but also to those who come from abroad and gain the right to vote, that they may vote. On this occasion, I would like to encourage rural society all around the country to consider this now. It's not too late. We enter the election after more than two months, May 14, so there is plenty of time to make a single person; welcome to an election, nice to tell you that we are going to the election in your near-May 14th. You've got a vote for yourself, so take advantage of this fundamental right, because we're not supposed to belittle democracy, that's so important. It is important, and we should encourage people to enter the election. The changes that are being made here are in 12 articles, the changes needed to alter the terms of elections and political organizations on reference dates and on the need to do now because we enter our elections and we need a reminder that there is a problem when we set laws at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u80	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator may want to thank you especially for reviewing when members of the major three Parliaments prevented an election age from being reduced by a debate over the bill at 3 p.m. ... but shows certain desperate classes of the world's changing, and the next generation will not choose as many middle-class people, regardless of independence or the middle class itself, as will the first. There are a number of subjects that could be discussed, but I may especially want to review the timeliness here a year ago. The bill was recommended on December 15, 2020, for the review procedure, and it seems to me that 22 committees of the Board of Control and Control. By the end of May, we were prepared to make possible changes to which the committee could meet, which were sent to expert internal reviews, and then the case came out of June 8. It's just a really, really, really long process. Still, that's the best I could do. I think we have to say after that that that we haven't done so well enough. Then we're done in 2nd. March 12th, 3rd. On the night of June 13, so that the space to discuss the matter would have been normal in view of the magnitude of the changes was nothing. This, Mr. President, is just not the kind of work we're supposed to do. [[The president calls.]] So I wondered, as I mentioned to the why. A conniverna, a Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir, may we have to take the case back into our arms and assign some committee to consider further legal reforms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u81	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This review is why. The senator is a shocking reminder of how the work is done here at the end of the fall council and at the end of the spring when things are being approved at night, where more often than not the quality of sleep has taken place that has even been on the watch for 20 hours. Then there can be a mistake. Of course, that's often not the case. Many years ago, all work has been completed on a matter of Congress, or not long ago, let's say a few days earlier. In this case, however, it is of great interest to observe what is taking place there during the final days of the spring of 2021. It was very special, there were three, four modifications made several hours apart. It was always, "Hey, yeah, I missed it here one more time." When this is done, there is a danger that there will be mistakes, even irreversible mistakes. Of course, we here have election laws, and we cannot say that making a mistake can directly affect one's personal life, financial resources, life, health, or such things. Yet, these are basic rights, and they are not to be played with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u82	Mr. President. I'd like to go to another thing that happened. A senator who is the good attempt of Reykjavíkurburg to contact those of the voters who, in particular, returned to their homes, with a covering brochure, to encourage the person to use his voting rights. It was an experiment that Reykjavíkurburg was retraced because of its lack of proper legal rights. This is something we couldn't fix last year. 31. U.S. election songs include e - mail of political organizations to their sufficiency. That, in fact, was explained. By this means the organization might contact individuals who have recently received Icelandic citizenship or those who have received the right to vote for rural governments without being citizens. This source was given to political organizations. This was pointed to in the review process, e.g. of Reykjavík, that it was normal for the executive of the campaign, which is the country society, to have at least as well as access to a ballot and a political organization, but this was not achieved in the committee during the last term, unfortunately. This is something that I think we need to revise, even squeeze. I think it's considerably safer to allow council members, campaign officials, to have any wealth access to a vote, rather than political organizations, which have an entirely different source of elections, especially in view of the fact that these 31s are not clear enough. An election of rules for accessing politics into an electronic ballot. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just a little fuzzy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u83	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for later answers. We are in a particular situation because, on the other hand, we are very concerned that political organizations have many conflicting views with voters, so we have many rules and, of course, need to be concerned about false stories and have to worry about illegal election propaganda, where helbbits are presented. I'm totally into us having some frame around it. I remember that we were very worried about, for example. In many after colleges, political organizations must not come in to discuss with voters 18, 19, 20 years after the Independence Party was able to harm high school. At the same time, however, we do not want the executive, who are his societies, to miss contact directly with the voters. It's kind of incomprehensible. Of course, it is the manager who should specifically call attention to the coming elections, there are certain categories available, please learn about it and the like. I have to say, I have no major concern that political parties will draw attention to their policies because it is such an exorbitant amount of information that prides a person who has no interest in, only on community media and in the media. [[The president calls.]] I have nothing to worry about so that political groups are involved in the information about themselves or their policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u84	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vala Helgadóttir for a very good speech, an interesting glimpse of this legal bill, and a huge amount of what was presented in her language. It's certainly interesting that we're going to settle this case right now, four minutes in the election, and then shortly after this law was approved here at the council. It's shocking to hear the descriptions and dates and how they were worked here at the last assembly, and certainly not an example of how fast this was won. It does not reduce your concern about these tactics what happened during the election in the fall. That's why I'd really like to say, though this case, which includes some adjustment of nonsense in the law adopted last year, looks small, work like some small thing we need done, and maybe in some way you could say it is, it's not a small thing, it's a big deal. This is important, and this is serious. What might have caught my attention on a matter of course. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir is what I've been wondering about, and it's not that these are the first changes, the first adjustments to some idiot error in this bill made at this council. [[The president calls.]] The question that I really want to direct to the senator is, I mean, doesn't the Senator worry that we'll have to correct further clumsiness before the election takes place in four minutes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I heard her say it was election time in four minutes. I'm not sure that's the case, I think it's elections in over two months. Yes, there is good reason to worry that we need to make some adjustments until the next election, considering how this has worked, and some adjustments to the next elections, after up to three years, in bed. Let us hope that there will be elections sooner. Yeah, totally. Of course, no one's going to make a mistake, and some may say now that we're here, we're doing this for Christmas, last summer, last spring: Why didn't you guys put your eyes on this if you're so obvious? In some way, though, for long votes at the council that may even reach into the night, you may not be lying on subjects that come from other committees to consider, a word for word, what is said there. But I have to say, it's incredibly clumsy. I remember - well, I'm going over it in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u86	President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and fear that I must address her concern that we will have to make further adjustments and adjustments in this before the return of these laws, which is certainly not in just four minutes. I tend to exaggerate, and I pray that I will respect those misdeeds. It attracted my attention to the reading of the bill with the bill - now I'm in the management and monitoring committee that had this case on his table and was asked to remove it in one green to save these elections so that it would not be all damaged -- that it is suggested that the reference date be submitted to a remote day, i.e. He'll be 38 days before the vote day, instead of 33 days. There are other such talkers in this bill that are being corrected, and I have to admit that it's a special concern when there is a need to correct a count in connection with an election for obvious reasons. The question I wanted to direct to. A senator in the light of her speech and her reply and, in view of my concerns, which I think we share in many ways, considering what we're doing here and the nature of the comments that are being made at this stage, is: Is the senator not concerned about the implementation of the election we're running into right now? Have we learned anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u87	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Have we learned anything? No, it wasn't a great deal of effort to learn here after the big vote in the Northwestern state of the fall. There was no desire, unfortunately, and we saw exactly what was going on here at the Senate Hall when the management team began to try to ignore it, that it was about characters and players in some way. There is an amazing willingness to let all kinds of amateurs and handbacks slip by, unfortunately. There is an amazing willingness to do so. I'm concerned that the legislatator, the General, and even more so, is not sufficiently sending a clear message that any violations of the law are unacceptable. I must say, because I'm talking about this talking case in the northwestern state, it's gonna be interesting to see what's coming from the court of Strasbourg. It would be interesting to know where that case is going out, whether it's gone out there, and whether the court agreed to handle it. I think we all have to wait for the conclusion. It is of minimal importance that the election and counting should be correctly performed and that the European Security and Cooperation Agency will send a surveillance unit to monitor the elections in this country after more than two months.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u88	A respectable president. It is and will no doubt become a constant problem, how to ensure the right of the individual voters to express their views in order to express themselves. A member of the council and my grandfather. He's probably met the nail on his head, that we still have to argue about how to do elections properly over 70 years later. I was one of those who experienced the doubt of what was legitimate elections and not legitimate elections and all the mess that took place in the northwestern state. One of the things I heard very often back then was that the new law would deal with this, with the new law it wouldn't happen. However, these new laws are still not completely correct and need to be adjusted. Sad to say, there are a lot of things that went wrong last September that are not being fixed. I have, for example. Often they asked that, after paying a vote for a ballot for why I had paid a vote against a vote. That was a simple reason. I believe that the article in it is old and out - of - date and has simply not meant that after we stopped taking an individual standard, much less after we started dating an equation party. This may be the problem with the way we work with the bills over our heads, and we keep sticking the laws around us. Then two things happen. On the one hand, there will be laws that may no longer apply, but there is no one looking at them because we are always watching the changes that are proposed. However, we accidentally erase some articles because we have become completely confused as to which articles are still in the bill. When I talk about skin replacements, that's exactly how we get the bills. One article says: "Rather than the number " ▪8How is it that the number" has come ": 7◯, and so on the 27th century C.E. to change like this, etc. and it's really hard to see what the bill itself will look like when we have said yes to these changes. That's a little funny because when we're paying votes about the bills we're paying votes for the bills so changed. Besides, it can only be a long time before this modified version is online. As a result, it is very difficult to see what the entire Law will look like. This also makes it much more difficult to get an overview of what we really agree with. So today I have to watch the bill that is put on one screen, and on others I have existing laws, and then I try to put it together in my mind what it's going to look like. I would have thought maybe we could invest in some technical solutions so we could see how things looked so different. Then we may be able to read over the bills and see what the law will look like afterwards. One thing you want to do is look through the text when all of you are together and think, " What happens if this happens? ' If this article comes in, what do I need to do next? What, then, will happen to the other articles? All the mind games that have to go through to figure out how the law will work. It's completely impossible, until maybe weeks or months later, when the new law is in, and we've long forgotten that we were, for example, in the past. to make new election laws. This is a matter of working here at a council that reduces the risk that we need to be updated to some of these things. And, yes, part of what is being suggested as a change here is setting the dates off, that it is already an elected file before we start taking the next step. I thought, for example. quite incredibly funny, or perhaps rather comatic, that I could go and choose outside the election in the general election before the deadline to announce an offer was once passed. I could go and choose a group that may not even have existed or may not have reached the minimum of needed signatures. There is no almanac in it, not setting this date off. No one had thought of all this. We also have in the new law a part around sub-election regulations, which, for example, includes the new law. about the time for an outcroak meeting to close at five o'clock in the country and abroad the day before. Then there's quite a fluffy how quickly these words have to be delivered. I don't think anybody read all that text through and thought how different dates there play together. Perhaps we now have it in the U.S. Environmental Summit, which is in some states that putting a vote in mail on a Christmas Day is enough, and it is a matter of weeks, as it is in the northwestern district. Of course, it is also a very bad case that these things are being run through during the last days of the council. Like what? Tenth. Smoking, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, pointed out that these songs were being voted in the middle of the night because they had to be completed throughout the last days of the council. Sadly, to keep people awake, there is a lack of left - handed liquid here in the cafeteria. Perhaps something needs to be done about it if there's going to be a meeting late at night. Then the mistake happens. Do I agree with this bill materially? Well, some things do, but not all of them. The vote for the Southwestern district is still very wrong and has, for example, been the case. It was pointed out by scholars that in order to level it would have been necessary to increase the number of members of Congress in 15 but not 14. But this is not done, although it is better to adjust the number of members of Congress to 14 of the national government and then adopt laws that replaced him for 13 years. It's a little strange. I would like to encourage what has been noted here by another reason. Council members that a board of administrations and monitoring committees accept these laws as a counter-regulating process. I'd like to encourage you to do so, and I would like to make a recommendation that the bill will not be referred forward to the 3rd. but referred back to committees to correct more problems in the election law, which appeared on September 25 of the past. And since we're fixing these things, why not fix all the problems and not just the ones the Ministry thought it would be necessary to fix now? This must be done in order to eventually ensure the right of the individual voters to express their views.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator says that there is more to do to improve the election law than what we are determined to do here today. Many have pointed out that there is one thing and another that threatens open, free, democratic communities in today's world. It usually speaks of espionage, false news, and Internet attacks. We need to be careful of democracy, as are other important social infrastructures. We must have roads, and we must have transportation and welfare systems, school systems, and all of this, and then we must have democracy. We must be as careful with democracy as with any other necessary wood. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with this approach and whether he does not believe that the election law is just one of these events in the democracy that we need to be careful about, and therefore we should put much emphasis on the challenge of the terms of the election; it needs to be solid. There are a number of things that have gone wrong with the processing of these election shapes and recent changes, but what makes them say. A senator on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the counter. I couldn't agree more. A senator in that democracy is one of society's cornerstones. This is precisely why the election law needs to be very successful, better accomplished, than even a number of other songs that we put here at the High Council. We'll make mistakes in the legal process. I hope we'll learn from them. It has often been said that making mistakes is human. It's okay as long as we learn from them, and that's what I'm encouraging. Things didn't work out in the last election. Let's take the lesson from it, fix what needs to be corrected. We need this cornerstone to have absolute trust in democracy. If we don't, we'll know where we're gonna end up. Sadly, we end up in the folly that many nations have had to observe, since democracy is merely in word and not on the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u91	Mr. President. I think it was Stalín - but it may not be that I'm remembered - that said this in terms of not completely how voters would choose but, rather, how the boxes were listed was more important. I thought of this when the boxes in the Northwestern district of last election were being counted out, and when the unfortunate conclusion became clear that even if there was some doubt that this was all true, the talk would be passed. There I felt that the appearance of democracy on this land was imminent. It's something that those who want to reduce democracy, and want things to follow their own way, want to say, "It's not that important. It is possible to influence the way the boxes are listed, etc. Let's minimize democracy, it's also so long, slow, difficult, and boring. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he's had that uncomfortable feeling when campaigning in the northwestern district, that we do not support ourselves when we consider the democracy in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u92	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the question. Yes, I can truly agree with their concern. A senator declared, and this was especially difficult for me because it affected me personally. But to me, democracy is important, so I voted according to my convictions when it came to deciding how this was going to end. In fact, I thought it was a little funny or Colombian that Stalín's particular words were said to me on a day of voters. Actually, it wasn't in the northwestern district. You see, one of the things I learned from my grandfather who sat here for 30 years is becoming corrupt. That's exactly what's under control, when you've been with them for a very long time, you often want you to get your own way, no matter what's right or what's wrong. Sadly, that is how many countries are far worse off.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u93	Mr. President. First, I'd like to review how urgent it was to reconsider campaign law in Iceland when we did that last year. It had been pointed out, for example. In the assessments of the European Safety and Cooperation Agency, in a series of cases, that there were errors in the implementation of an election that would need to be addressed. Over a long period of time, it had not been able to achieve a solid agreement over these changes here at the Hall of Congress because it was found that it is a little difficult to change election law because political people have strong opinions about it, so the bills of that material were either not present or lived until the last winter. The foundation may have included some material that had to be added to the legislation, but the major project may have been to combine four layers of law that had to do with a different measure of campaign work, depending on whether they were for Generalis, president, rural administration, or national law, and it was a huge project. It was not until December 15, 2020, that Stigrim J. Sigfússon, then president of the Generals, was able to measure for the bill of the 1st issue. At that point, on May 1, 2021, a messenger's optimism was assumed, and I think he was in his heart even hoping that it would get better. In fact, however, things became different. A board of directors held 22 committee meetings on the subject, received an enormous size and many envelopes, and had to be changed very much from the original bill, so that it was not until May 21, 20 days after the initial implementation of a test subject, which had come up with a plan for the transition to the Committee that two weeks later came to light when the committee provided eight late-day adjusted proposals with 65 numbers. Before the day we're gone, that's a lot. But why did the committee have to change so much? You would do well to review it because there are differing views in terms of election law. On the one hand, it is this beautiful thought that every vote is important, so we create a system that is about listening to every voter. Although we are near 300,000 who have the right to vote, each of us counts. That's why I'm always particularly fond of the provisional regulations in the Act on how to adopt the terms of the people who meet the rights to the dance company of citizens in Iceland, No. 18/144. They are people who lived in Iceland at the time of a republic and are still having a vote for this law based on the 1918 Community Act. According to national records, when Steingrímur J. Sigfússon spoke for the bill, it is not even when he recommended it, in 2019, there were three votes left in the country that met this law. We have a specific set of laws for the three because these three votes are exactly as important as the votes of all other votes. All too often, the other viewpoint on which this beautiful election song was to be reduced was that it should be covered - this was in the campaign group's commission, which originally made a proposal to change the law - the current election law, with practical and efficient guidance. I don't think elections can be practical or efficient. They cost a little money. It's a little complicated. They are manipulative, that is all kinds of trouble that must take place so that we can achieve the will of every voter and that every voter would trust all the steps of the process. I'd like to give you a few examples of the conflicting elements of the original bill, which the management board handled and changed. First, it was suggested that the administrations of elections be put down and that the government of the country hide all the major actions of the General election. It seemed that people were moving the project too far from the region. It would also affect the work and the system that people trust. It was reversed, the government came in again. This requires enormous, complex changes because it touches every other law on the bill. The original bill also suggested that missing election meetings be moved about an hour, that people could no longer vote at 10:00 in the evening, and that they had to be finished by 9:00 a.m. The reason was not clear, but it was much more efficient because as some reporters pointed out, there were no overexcited number of voters coming at this time than most of the committee said: enough for us to keep this unaltered; we have a meeting open until ten, although it may mean a little trouble in some rural communities, and although it means that the news panels of a live broadcast on theU will not get the first numbers as quickly as they would like, because it doesn't matter. In the autumn election, we saw well that the prime thing that first gave us the first figures was also the ideal, which was then all down when the count came. It cost us a lot of time because they wanted to be the most efficient figures. Then there were issues such as no re-election if the voter had paid votes outside an election meeting. No one understood why. Yes, then the people who wrote the bill decided that somehow it was too much trouble that the voter could vote outside of a ball meeting as often as he seemed and could still be at a rally, vote there, and then it would be just the last vote. We can change our mind. It's a democratic right. We could vote for a party that is so scandalous that we could walk in our democratic rights if we couldn't vote on it to the crier and just show up at the polls and vote there. This turned the management and monitoring committee around. The campaign was to be changed, so the voter was to get a voter, enter a ballroom, as we know, and mark it, and then he was to be taken together with the card to a representative of the election government who would stamp with some official plunger, and then he could go into a ballerbox. We never understood why it was. This would mean that after you marked them, there would be someone who would handle the cash before going into the box. That would possibly mean that countless votes would be invalid because a voter was just too quick, would be used after decades of experience to go straight out of his cell and stick the bill in the box; then it would be an invalid vote. It was just a bunch of crap the committee threw out. Then the right of the people to vote, even though they had left the country, was to be forced. It was only to set a rigid limit to a set number of years outside the landstones, which would include the patient's election course rather than a long-term filing bill. It was put back because, yes, it's a problem for the system that these people are filing and adding, but that's an important part of the system we rely on to vote on. This is just a fraction of the extensive change made by the management and monitoring committee to improve the situation. Even though we have done well now, we have succeeded because the time, at this point, was just too short. On June 8, a committee was resolved with this huge adjustment of proposals. On the night of June 12 it was the 2nd. ... aboutit. If we could get on a time machine, maybe we'd have given a few days after June 12 to allow this shrinking to light, to be only exaggerated by experts and stakeholders, to make improvements for 3rd. This was not to be done because we had to get to our summer vacation, so on the night of June 13, the case was settled at the end of the 3rd. This is not a good work, Mr. President. Aside from the magnitude of these changes, they are also, as we have seen in this discussion, very inaccessible. You can't read a 65-digit conversion box and compare it to the original bill and get some sens in what is happening. To read through it, you need an overexhaustible expertise and see what you can do better. Now, for the second time or third time, in effect, we make such changes, and fortunately, I want to say, when people want to do it so that the law will always be better and better. But I'd like to leave this idea that we've discussed here in a few answers, whether or not the council needs to set in motion some formal procedure in the management and monitoring committee or some particular committee of the election law, to go over this global reexamination, just in good detail, see if there may be some more extensive changes to stop all the potential holes there. The good work that took place on the Board and Control Committee was obviously overtime because people wanted this thing to be done at endpoint, finally, it was a long-stranded endpoint to reach it, but it could possibly lead to our finishing it in a short time period of time. That's what I wanted to say about this time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u94	Madam President. There's a lot of problems with this bill and the whole election thing. I certainly came into it yesterday that it was interesting and even reprehensible to turn the law just two months before election, and I don't have to go deeper into it. I'd also like to wonder, too, why they're just changing dates, not major problems for the legislature. For example, it is up to the Minister to implement the principles of the Commission's implementation, and we are expected to have several regulations in the coming weeks and months to further implement this and how to implement these elections. President. I don't think it very normal for the Commission or Minister to have as much access to the implementation of elections, but the implementation of elections under the General Assembly and the laws adopted by the General Assembly. I thought it was just some principle that we needed to respect and not ignore. Reykjavíkurburg and the head of Reykjavík made serious and very significant comments to this bill. Clearly, this has not been taken into account. Among other things, people who live in a foreign country may lose their right to vote but will certainly get it back in the rural election so that people might ask themselves, " Why does it matter that these people who are living abroad have a right to vote? ' But there are now, and there have been several rural communities on the basis of a law that has fallen away except the provision of these cohesion. I'm afraid that's a natural crazy thing to do. I want to agree with what. Sveinbjarnardóttir It's a strange thing to conclude that this legal bill is still being fixed by a total review, and it's definitely not going to be the last adjustment. We here at the General Assembly will have to work on this bill for a few more months because there are a lot of laws that have obviously not been planned to the end. But then I'd just like to remind you that we have Congress, not Ministers, and these election laws are a sign that, unfortunately, we live as ministers, for which very many of these laws are heard and the actions of the election under a minister who is naturally not normal, as I came into the past. President. I'm a law student, and I don't really keep it secret, but the law school talks a lot about the lawyer's will. This is discussed in the legal evidence, and reviews include the articles and debates of members of the committee and members of the Parliament, and a number of other things to reveal the wishes of the Lawgiver. I'm just thinking about what's going to happen in two or three years when this law has been set up, and the first year of law school is to learn the administrative rights. There will only be an explanation of some legal evidence that is hardly present because no one at the Council made a comment to the bill when it was delivered during the last term and accepted as law. I'm sorry because it's natural history. This took place in an overall re-election of elections and in a collective code of law, which is the result of elections to the General Assembly. But here we have a law code that obviously doesn't work, obviously wasn't thought to end, and we here at the Council are responsible for it too. It wasn't just a board of administration and monitoring last year, we here, the legislature, we need to check the data and look at the bill before it's approved. I allow myself to say that I feel that the legislature has failed by failing to recognize these serious problems or has simply failed to take into account the comments received, which are naturally boring, and now must be spent an entire assembly trying to fix this blessed law code. There's more than 60 days in the election. I don't think this is quite the work of the senators and members of the Committee. There was also a comment about agents, but if I get the right, I want to be one agent for each campaign in Reykjavík. There is an approximate amount of money in Reykjavík. 16 exist, and I think that all of us sitting here today have gone into a ballroom and we'll see how small this room is. I don't know if there are 16 agents and voters and the voters in this small room. It can be revised too. There are other things to put out on, but there's certainly not being fixed here today, unfortunately. I wondered if this law was examined well enough when it was approved last year, which is boring, and it is not for Generalis's work to be that way. President. I looked at this bill when it was first submitted and noticed a few things that appeared where I hoped they would be fixed on a committee or even that there would be some adjustment made after it was approved, but it wasn't. At least, that's the case. Three times in the election, with the permission of the President: ▪ On the proposed national clause, the Minister of the Regulation shall give further details about this and this. It's only strange that the Minister will place a lot of regulations on further implementation, further regulations on the rest, and this. The government and the executives and people in charge of the election are now expecting at least 22 Minister regulations and, as I said, more than 60 days of election. How are these people to memorize all these regulations along with changing and improving the law for these district elections? How can we ensure that these elections are properly performed if the law is not clear enough, if there are 22 regulations to be taken into account? We saw in September that it is so important that there is no doubt about the outcome of elections or the implementation of elections, and I just don't know how we can make sure that there is no one to doubt about it. We're now trying to make sure of this, but there's really need to be a good job. I encourage Congress to do so and to look more closely into the bill and to make us law students proud who need to look at the data and have to refer to this issue. Senators who speak here today and speak in the last term when this bill was being approved. I personally wait very excited after further change and development, because as I came into it, the change of dates is certainly not the only change that needs to take place. A law of elections and anything we're about is a very important part of democracy here in Iceland and we have to respect democracy so our community works. We live in a state of justice, as we often say. I do not know if I will be here at the council when the next adjustment proposal is made but I will support it, of course, and I encourage a board of directors and patrols to continue looking at this bill and taking into account the comments that were received and trying to fix everything that was pointed out. There are natural professionals who write these envelopes, and they've been doing elections and performing elections and know what is missing and how to apply themselves in these matters. That's all, President. What exciting times lie ahead!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u95	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Lenyu Runn Rún Karim for this fine speech. It called attention to certain problems with election law, perhaps not exactly the limitations of this particular bill being discussed here, but to the problems of the total law that must exactly continue to be reviewed at regular intervals. I'd like to move on in the same direction and only side with one point, especially with regard to the subject as a boy. A senator called attention to the regulations and regulations of the minister when it comes to implementing an election. In 31st. The vote is correct, with President's permission: ▪ By the time it is advertised, it has been completed. 30. g., is the political organisation that offers a list of elections, and the candidates in the Presidency, allowed to request electronic access to the National Book of Iceland. Access should be provided free of charge, as well as any other information that may be stated in the Regulation. During recent elections and in their leadings, it took weeks for political organizations to be allowed access to their polls. Not much explanation was given, and political organizations even needed to buy data from yes.is because these rules were not properly followed. I don't know exactly what it was, but this might make you wonder if there's something better to look at and maybe an sharpening of this rule that political organizations have a right to vote. I'd love to hear what we're talking about. A senator will think of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson's objection also Thanks him for bringing an important matter to his attention. To begin with, it seems only a little strange that a minister is setting up a regulation on this and that a minister has so much authority when it comes to implementing an election, as I said earlier. I'll have to say the word with what. A senator when it comes to 31 st. and about access to the suffix file. It was a rather big deal in the last election to the Generals, i.e. extending access to political organizations was a delay. I think it's a perfect reason for looking at 31. There can be no doubt about how the election will deal with the election. As soon as there is a doubt about the implementation of elections, the information about elections, the outcome of elections, I don't know how the public, how general voters in town, can continue to trust the General Assembly, the Government and only democracy over heads, which is the foundation of the society we live in today and have been for a very long time. I appreciate it. A senator has a great deal to point out 31 st. and wonder. A board of directors and patrols to take a closer look.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u97	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent answer. If we keep on talking about this 31. par.: It's considered personal protection, case No. 2018/83/EC1, that there is, in fact, no clear legal authority available to win personal information in order to increase the rate of application, e.g. in groups with the slightest interest. Reykjavíkurburg only burned out on this in earnest effort to contact these groups. Now the European Union of Iceland and Reykjavík has suggested that rural society enjoys just the same rights as a political organisation to access a Constitution in order to contact the voters. According to the European Union's Commission on election law, the total law, the relationship has a natural view that rural society or ideal governments have the authority to attract special attention to voting rights and votes and contact groups that are likely to use their rights, e.g. Because of ignorance, which people don't even know they have a right to vote. I'd like to state if it was inappropriate to change 31. in the view that rural society is given comparable authority to use a draft file to provide information in the event of an election, whether it would be something that would have been wise to do in the leading of rural elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-09-49.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for the answer. He made it clear that rural society should be allowed access to an elected file. I agree very strongly with that, and it should happen as soon as possible, because there is very important information about elections and the public is well informed enough about how to vote, whether people have election rights, etc., whatever it is. A senator came in himself. The access to a registration file is very important, and it needs to be done as soon as possible. So I suggest 31. is tight, so that there is no doubt about who has the right to the vote and when I feel like 31. being a little bed, a little open for interpretation. When there is a law, there is doubt about its meaning, so it may not be used correctly. I think, as I said earlier, there is good reason to reconsider 31 st. and only put it in place, and grant it to local communities a ballot as soon as the elections are, as I said, in more than 60 days. All of this needs to be available at least month before election.
