ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u1	The president wants to report a change in the work schedule at the beginning of a meeting: The Presidency Committee, in consultation with members of Congress, has decided to make the change in the Work Programme to be scheduled Friday, June 10th, to be called on, on the day of Congress as planned. It is now time for Congress to last a little longer. Thus, as in the past under such circumstances, the Council of Congress will be organized as needed in consultation with the heads of Congress, but it is assumed that meetings will begin in general next week. 10:30.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Food Minister requesting every time to provide a written answer for the requested application. 957, about insurance protection and the activities of the Save Fund, from Erna Bjarnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u3	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A convergence on the length of meetings is suggested by the president that a conference can last longer today than what the Senate puts it to say. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u5	The vote will then be carried out later, along with other votes here at the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u6	President wants to announce that the plan is to have a half-hour lunch break at this meeting around the hour. 13th
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u7	President. Children are entitled to know and associate with their parents, and parents have the right to associate with their children. However, the principle in our society is that what is best for a child should always be first of all, and we consider that it divides the child's feelings and views. The right association of an elderly parent with a child is so strong that it is still permitted to establish a social relationship even against the child's will if the government knows more about it today. An attempt to resist a child's will means that the child is taken by physical force, even a policeman's authority, and he is removed from the parent he trusts and looks to someone else for protection. There is no need for a wide variety of events that involve it and the long - term psychological effects of this trauma to a defenseless child. In recent years, Norwegian legislation has developed in the direction that laws are made from the children's perspectives instead of their parents. It is time to take it seriously and really put the rights of children and their interests in first place, not second and third. An entry is not an option. There is a lack of resources, as we see in many parts of the system, where pressure and punishment are used because the system either does not offer alternative measures due to ignorance, prejudice, or because it is too expensive and time - consuming to go humanally in a way that can solve the problems. Children have their own rights, including the right to their own opinions and that they are listened and respected. Children should not be punished for their parents'actions or inactivity, nor should their parents'rights be trampled on, the welfare, and the success of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u8	A respectable president. The Honorable World of Congress and a dear nation. For fun, I want to know that I'm very pleased with such traditions as saying honor and respect. During the first days of the council, I was here and I was a little out of my mind, and I could have sworn that I heard a senator standing here saying a strange president, but I found that it wasn't. But anyway, I'm saying here just so I understand: the sale has been discussed quite a bit in Iceland and it seems who it is. I'm going to share with you a little experience I have with the stock markets. So it's with interest that I was linked to a company out in a world called Hard Rock Café. They made the best of selling sweaters. There was a bunch of restaurants all over the world that everyone was trying to sell sweaters ain't no good. Hard Rock Café had some sense of how this should be done, and they started a company called Planet Hollywood, and that was the lie. They got Arnold Schwarzenegger, Bruce Willis and Sylvester Stallone, and it went crazy. Two years later, they put the company on market, and the stock prices were raised by 100% on the first day. Nobody said anything and everybody was happy. But now it seems that there are some tools on the gangs of the letters, and I can't better see today than anyone buying the last one of them has already lost because they are going down to the marquee. So I just don't really understand what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u9	President. Because of why. paritaprevir Tómas Tómasson is kindly and obliged to announce that January 6, 2017, I addressed to the president exactly: A famous president, but I received the message that it was simply forbidden, so it is recorded in history books as a respectable president. That's the way it is. But here I would like to discuss the words of the Deputy Minister of Justice, whose legal order is discussed, with the permission of presidents: 'See, there is no shortage of fanatics with personal rights to a weapon ready to weigh it at every opportunity. These are related to the complaint of the minister of justice and others that it is not allowed to interfere with specific matters and with refugees. The problem, however, is that no one is being asked to interfere with a particular matter because individual issues arise that highlight a general problem. That's what the problem is. There are always situations in which governments are directing people back to Greece and other countries where refugees are unacceptable and Icelandic law completely expects them to say: No, we're not going to do that. And when these issues come up over and over again, it is not an isolated matter but a general problem that we are asking the government to take action. But they do not. So the Minister, the government, would you please stop saying that we are asking you to take action? This is not what the matter is. Rather, fix this general problem, so that children and refugees are not constantly being sent into unacceptable situations in countries that do not help refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u10	A respectable president. Like the inhabitants of other parts of the world, we Westerners depend on regular transport in our daily lives every day of the year. With the compression of basic services and larger employment areas, transport is even more important, and this trend is not changing over the next decade. In the process of transport, Westerners are likely to be patient with Iceland record, and it is now apparent that those who live and work on Western soil can begin to breathe more easily. 20 billion bucks. In line with a five-year transport programme, the EEA has set out an ambitious transport strategy on the Westland coast. The beginning was a major project on a beast's tunnel, which calls for even greater construction. Yeah, let's talk about the Daring Bears. Important improvements have already been made in Vestfjordur Ways around Dougning Island. Last week an invitation was published on a 13 km chapter that should be completed in 2024. When this chapter is complete, we're seeing new projects on a piece of 25 miles on the ground. From the opening of animal soil, it has not always been easy to keep the road open in pagan terms during the worst winter months. The structure of the road improves conditions for winter service, and when it is completed, it becomes a real possibility to keep safe transport between the north and the south throughout the year. A respectable president. One of the major projects has been started in the Gufudal Squadron. That means that the road in Chets Forest will become a reality. Work on the road started, and thus decades of debates over the road. It is a joy to see that those given the task are conscious that they are working on untarnished land and are guided by minimisation factors. In many areas, the quarter is being rebuilt, and a total of nearly six miles [18 km] are being worked in this area. All these improvements are important to us, whether we live on the West or anywhere else in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u11	Mr. President. Sometimes we find answers to questions that give us even more answers than they do. It may not be surprising that one of the advisers that usually happens in this case is the highest. Minister of Justice when asked to escape. Earlier in winter, I asked him about the forced exodus of people who have been denied international protection and who are to be deported. I asked what forced measures were put on such individuals to get them out of the country, and I specifically asked them if drugs had been given to people's will in order to facilitate the deportation of the authorities. The answer I received was so funny because everything was answered except clearly what I specifically asked would be answered. It is seldom that we properly highlight what we want in response, so it was a suspicion that the Ministry would not respond to this with forced medication. I didn't follow up with another inquiry asking for the forced medication only. The answer I received was quite remarkable. It says that individuals are not and have not been given any anti-ential medicinal product in order to facilitate deportation by the authorities. However, sedatives are often administered to such individuals when they are to be arrested if their condition is assessed so that they need to be. So when the person is assessed quiet enough to be kicked out of the country, they don't give him any drugs, they've already thrown him out of the country under police escort. No, people aren't given drugs against their will, but, yes, they're given, says the minister. There's still some questions, Mr President, what law ground is this on? Who decides? Is it the same confidence doctor who broke a law when he approved the evacuation of a pregnant Albanian woman two years ago? [[The president calls.]] How can the Minister of Justice handle such an event only because candidates for international protection and escape are people whom they want to get rid of and who care for are irrelevant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u12	A respectable president. It is necessary to provide transportation to and from the capital area. It's clear to everyone. To this end, there was an attack on the construction of a Halfland tunnel, a double Rhine Way, and now the last increase in lanes on the Southland road. The next step is to build a Sunway, a highway that goes from Kjalarnes to Kjalares. The drawing table has been on for decades and has been repeatedly discussed in the company's elections as an important program for the city and the capital area of Reykjavík. Now it's time for the decision, which of us is the Sunbed or the Sunwalks? The swimming bridge is worth 14 billion dollars more than a swimming tunnel. The diatom will be used 20% more than the Sunwater tunnel. In Western, northern, and Western areas, waterways are very important. Road transport in the capital area is essential for the construction of jobs in the region. A swimming path would make it easier for those who have to travel daily between Reykjavík and Western lands. The river, Grafarvogi, Grafarholt, and Mosfells, would also facilitate daily transportation through western parts of these neighborhoods. In this area, there are tens of thousands of people, most of whom travel every day in the western part of the country. The road estimates that a 60 million miles [60 million km] every year will be reduced by the Sunway. It takes less on climate, indeed. It is undeniably true that Dizziness is the most economic project available in transport. There are hundreds of billions of them in the long run. According to the road, the internal growth of the project is estimated to be 10◯12%, but in general, projects are considered to be acceptable if internal interest is above 3.5%. Thus, a break - up is the most economic advantage available. The new majority of the mayors have suggested that in the next four years little more will be done than attack environmental assessment for Diving. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now it's time for the decision of the mayor and the minister of the wood.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u13	A respectable president. Recently, a service survey on the services of clinics in the capital area was carried out, and the study turned to the satisfaction and trust of users. The results are that the majority of users have high trust in health care but there is considerable difference between stopping when compared. Special attention is given to the satisfaction of the users of private stations in Low House, Salatown, Cape, and Urversa have the services of their clinics. However, users in my hometown, Grafarvogur, are most unhappy when it compares with all the dangers, as it is now good to live in Grafarvogur. These results are in line with other observations that have shown that the satisfaction and trust of users of Special Health Centres exceeds those driven by the public. Personal health care services have proved to be effective. It is important that people, like other servants of God, have freedom of choice in health care. Therefore, we need to make good use of a variety of health - care programs, which enables us to improve access and shorten a waiting list and strengthen the quality of our service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u14	A respectable president. The situation of young people in Iceland is good in many ways. There is a peaceful, well - being high on a global scale. Yet, it may also reflect on young people. Young people's chemistry and property have not kept up with the generations before, and it is critical how close their parents'backland is. The opportunity in Iceland isn't even. Young people are later able to enter the real estate market, and it is not granted that after 40 or 50 years, the interests of young people will be better than those now finishing their career. So it is dangerous to decide that some of the largest pension funds are going to develop a grafting exchange on the basis of age. Predictions of a higher life span in the future will lead to a greater than equal rights but will increase in the oldest age group more than twice as high as the youngest. It equals tens of millions of cross transfers of younger people's rights to the older one. It depends on the rise of life's age, but we do not know what the future will be like, whether the position of a 17 - year - old will be when he becomes 67 years old. We know, for example. not whether your pension will rise. We don't know what the development of quality is going to be, and I'll mention in this climate change that, unfortunately, is a big change. The baseline value of cohesion is that the risk is evenly distributed to everyone, and we settle in the same ratio and should have the same rights. If we leave it and open a mix-up in this system of insurance, big questions arise. The position of the pension fund is so that this imbalance is not needed and it violates the purpose of the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u15	A respectable president. One of the most popular subjects here at a council year after year is about to turn to the alcohol law in the country. No one needs to doubt the fact that alcohol is not like any other product at all. Healthal and social damage to alcohol is immense, causing considerably more damage than all other substances, including one legal drug on the market. Fortunately, most alcohol use in moderation, while studies show that restrictions on bioavailability are effective in government efforts to minimise adverse effects on public health in the country. For example, there are bills that deal with changes in alcohol law and think of local drinking plants, sales of alcohol at a place of manufacture, Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages, and license to sell alcohol in Icelandic Internet stores. To me, knowing is not the basis for public health assessment. That would be a significant improvement, so I will suggest it. A respectable president. I myself am in favor of freedom with responsibility, so I want to say in Article 1. " By permission of the president, " says one alcoholic song, "the purpose of this law is to work against alcohol abuse. " Laws have since 1998, but since then much has changed, especially in the field of prevention and research. So I think it is important to have an overall review of alcohol laws with the aim of taking into account competitiveness, domestic and foreign conflicts, but mainly of these attitudes are involved in the prevention, the effects of alcohol consumption on children and adolescents and public health in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u16	A respectable president. We live in a strange society, a society that hinders people, sick people, desperate people, wheelchairs. But the most remarkable thing about it is that these obstacles are often minor in relation to the obstacles imposed by the government by the government. To think that an individual who is an invalid will try to collect himself for a down payment on an apartment has no chance to do so because of a trap in the system. The person must only gain money to a certain extent each month. How can we justify doing so at the same time as the wealthy can collect wealth completely unlimited with twenty - one percent tax? At the same time, we are beating up those who have mentioned and are sick. Something's wrong with our system and it's wrong. At the same time, we say in law that people are to be paid in a pension fund. Legalized, estate-created pension fund. But what is done? Yeah, it's also taken up to 75% and up to 100%. At the same time, the rich escape. All they get is a minimum tax. We must be able to make sure that the pension fund, which is income and, in part, finance - if this was classified as income, we could offer $200,000. free-grading goal. This could be done right away. This would make a difference for those who receive from a pension fund, and I don't talk about those who get the least from a pension fund, and that is, most of the women. Let's change it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to make the media's case a topic. Over a year ago, I and a former senator, and the present 1st district deputy of the Central Party, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, made a suggestion that old General would come to sea on the British side instead of the modern Baldur. We wrote the best article in the town of Bavour, which says, with the permission of a president: ▪ Defined backup ship for Baldur, by The deal with the Roadmaker is Old Godmother, who, of course, is a bigger and more powerful ship than the modern Baldur. Signed and former senator Páll Jónsson - ▪ The road was seen to be a direct solution to the situation, as has been so many times, that General Stones are already starting around the Bayfjords, while Baldur is being repaired to be broken -- and possibly something to go on. A slight adjustment of the side of Breafjörður's lamp is a small detail in the big picture, and if the members of the Group that is needed by the Rapporteur's Office, then it has to be handled. Of course, all of this was dismissed at the time, but the solution is now being worked on so that it would have been better if our Middle Class suggestions had been listened immediately. What I especially want to draw attention to now is how disloyal the shipping is. The number of travel is very limited, and with the large quantity of fish farming products that must come from the Western world in a foreign market, the situation today is totally unacceptable. There must be a solution to ensure that in agreement with local society, management and road transport, the number of trips can be increased so that we do not completely destroy the roads that are still inaccessible on the West by means of excessive heavy transport, when it can easily be solved by transport using the British carrier while waiting for the road to be counterweighted. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u18	A respectable president. Looks like we're stuck in some farce. We hear a call from the health - care system every week that describes situations that are beyond the control of the staff. Working in a health - care system where you show up for work, and waiting for you is so great that you don't see how everyone feels. We hear most of the release of the emergency department at the Southnes Hospital but at the Southnes Medical Institute, where I live, has already been published that services will be reduced for the entire summer because of a large number of lives in 30,000 human society. Healthcare professionals try their best in situations that cannot be handled and eventually give up. We do not use the defined nurse design criteria that depend on work loads that each employee can perform, so we approach our people with excessive stress. Over the last five years, the application for the financial resources of the Icelandic nurses has tripled, and the number of nurses in the rehabilitation of a victim has doubled. We walk on the people until we finish them, they give up, they quit, and the public suffers for them. The problem is clear: The working situation of nurses has to be improved, the pressures to reduce, and the price for the profession should be agreed on in accordance with pressure. A third act is something that cannot be done. I would like to quote from the chairman of the Icelandic nurses, the Guðbjörg of Paul's Pálsdóttir, by permission of a president, who said that the project was in the hands of the government, and now it would be a good idea for them to do their job properly and to provide him with nurses. Nurses would be willing to work in the medical system but would not be required to do so - there would be a great difference. A respectable president. Is that not enough of this situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u19	V.E.G. President. I would like to, in the latter part of this council, to discuss the activities of the council at the end of the council. Yesterday it was changed from what has been over the course of many years in the kitchen - day discussion, where only two members of the council spoke from each category. This meant that the discussion got shorter, and I felt that it too was a snare. I must admit that I was paying more attention and kept my attention focused, and I felt that doing this was really improving. I realize that, of course, there are differences in viewpoints, there are different categories. But I'd like to direct it to the highest. The president, the prime committee, and the chairman of a council to review this form and know if more than I have experienced it in the same way because I thought it was good. Similarly, I would like to bring up the subject that at times I would like to see a more dramatic discussion here in this council hall. I've liked it when discussions have been negotiated, and groups have spoken in cases that may not be so much political disagreements, but they certainly differ from viewpoints. I would like to see more of such things, but of course it has to be that the government's situation can always give its view that in the face of a hot political issue. I'd like to use these last days to address these questions and direct it to the president to see how we can make the Senate more interesting and profound.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u20	A respectable president. It makes a difference where you live. A comparison of real estate evaluations and real estate fees in 2020 reveals that the weights in Smokejanestown are prominently the highest relative to the reference areas; 126,000, a 38.7% higher than in Gundars, where the second largest source of weights is 91,000 a year. The average crop in Smokeynestown is 1.75% of the weight valuation against 1.9 in the Gravitors. At least 17,000 dollars in Kópavogi. A year, which is therefore more than 600 percent higher than the weights in Kopavogi. The state is a big landowner in Réjanestown, and he charges 2% of his property while the local company gives 25% credit on the land owned by the local community. So if you pay rent to the city of Rhines, it's worth 1.5% of your rent. Landowners other than the State have not lent the charge to reduce rent on land while the state is not interviewing for a decrease in rent. The city's rulers tried to get the government to lower the property, but the official's answers were about to be sold so cheap at the Ásbourg site, so they should be able to obtain income through the land rent. There is no doubt that those who have purchased at the Ásbeks Bridge are stuck with a yoke mine because the government sold property that was almost donated on a sale truck. It must be a requirement for the government that it show community responsibility and good example and reduce rent. It cannot be expected that residents in Smokeynestown will pay 65% higher rent than residents of Kopavogi.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u21	A respectable president. As many know, there has been a conversation between the government and three political groups because of the foreign bill now held before the council. The will of these three governmental groups, restoration, convergence, and Shockers, was to fix a very bad bill of Justice Ministers and Governments so that the right to escape would be more guaranteed. We made a few suggestions for the bill, which included. Based on the views of the Red Cross, we take seriously our role in doing everything within our power to protect this group. We certainly did not want to receive sensitive personal information without approval for the treatment of the individual. What matters to us is that people would not be removed from the forwarding of 30 days after their decision had come into their case, and that would result in disastrous consequences for many people. We wanted the people who were locked up in the epidemic not to be sent away, for they have taken root in a long time. We have suggested that candidates for international protection remain in the minimum protection of the administrative law on re-entries due to new data or information. We wanted to protect the right of hostilities for family unity here on earth, that there is equal to others. Also, candidates for international protection that has not been able to reimburse or are sent away to another state within two years, that they have the option to apply for residence and employment permits. And there were other ideas in there. All these proposals Backing, Conspiracy, and Shockers are linked to improving the status of these people substantially, in view of the terrible plans that are in the bill of Justice Ministers and have the firm support of all the government groups, including VG and advance, so you take it in particular, and it is clear that the three classes would want to run the case through. It is now known that the government is not going to bring up the matter of these changes, that it will bring an end to terms of reconciliation. Hence, the bad bill is not to improve the status and right protection of the people. There were no negotiations on these points. The three government groups, including VG, and advance, are still not going to approve in the coming days of severe efforts against refugees'rights. This could have been avoided if there was a political wish and a minimal respect for the general human rights to flee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u22	The second session will be adopted, the election of a state accountant, according to Article 2. track No. 46/2016, of a state accountant, reviewing state accounts, to six, from 9 June 2022. The vote applies to 7 mg. 82. g. Parliaments that say that when choosing one person, they are alone and alone, not contradicting it. According to point two. Act on state accountants and reviewing state accounts, No. 46/2016, the prime committee proposes a recommendation to the General for an individual in order to serve the office of a public accountant. At the meeting of the Presidency Committee on the 7th of June. was agreed to make a suggestion to Guðmundur Björgvin Helgason. Since other appointments have not been passed to president within the period of the law, he alone is elected. The President has decided that the vote will be made by the vote system, such as by Congress. It can be tied to a secret written vote. The vote system will now be set so that the tablets on the walls will only show who paid votes, not how they voted. The same applies to the computer storage memory. Those who choose the Guðmundur Björgvin Helgason push the yes button, but those who want to return the blank push on the button marked, do not vote. No button has been disabled. A yellow light on the middle button of the council when a vote has been paid, no matter which button you have pressed. Similarly, only yellow lights are on the wall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u23	So I now pronounce Guðmundur Björgvin Helgason, a state accountant, starting today and until the next six years. On behalf of us generals, I wish him a success in his work, and of course we expect to cooperate with a new government accountant.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u24	Madam President. By the end of May, representatives of the Children's Subcommittee, who have been working on the results of the Children's Congress that this year, gave a report to the government's advisors. The delivery was accompanied by the firm wish of these child councils that the results would be taken up at the International Parliament. There is something we've been discussing before, but the leading issue is that a child council has been held twice, was held for the first time in 2019. It was under law on the authority of children in 2018, and in fact, it was I who recommended it, since interested persons in increasing the democracy of children and young people for a long time. It is therefore a pleasure to have followed this issue from the beginning, and I believe, in fact, after this first assembly that they have been established as a unique platform for the views of children and young people in Icelandic society. It can be said that a council such as this gives children the opportunity to influence society in a direct and indirect way, and we are taking it a little further through the discussions here at a council on a subject that burns on the children of the country. During March of this year, I was thrilled to see how many children accepted the invitation to participate and thus showed by their actions that they were concerned with social matters. The methodology used to select into the council ensures that the sex ratio, age ratio, and location of participants are considered. Children's senators prepared the council and chose three topics, and the choice became environmental, human rights, and education. I will here review the key findings outlined in this report. In the context of the environment, it was sort of a classification that came from an end, it is something that is very close to us and that we can have great control, both in our homes and even more in our own community. Children's panels in this country felt that there was much lacking and that they could do much better, and their suggestions depend on increasing the number of categories and the number of others involved in classing wastes. All public saws should have straddled compartments, and they must also be in classrooms. They also discussed the need to improve environmental education. It is now that one of the basic study files is sustainable, but it must also say that, as it is, it has been based on a primary course for ten years and that there are, of course, a number of progressive steps between different schools, that is just the nature of the case when we are considering how the curriculum gets into the schools, yet it has been staged quite a number of progressive steps in these activities. Child council members also discussed the importance of reducing, of course, food abuse, not just for children, but for all of us. We're wasting huge amounts of food in Iceland, and it's really normal, and I'm gonna be able to underline these pedestrians, that all government agencies set up a diet policy so it'll be significantly reduced. They also discussed the possibility of using food leftovers. Then, a substantial deal of plastic usage was discussed, and there was a chance for a conversation between ministers and senators on the other hand and pedestrians, on the other hand, where there have been a very big step in reducing the use of disposable plastics. But this was a clear point. Then transportation was discussed as they discussed, for example. ... aboutmoreheatedwheels and footpaths. One of the things I have considered, and I feel that the council should consider the next time it is considered a transport program, because we have developed a transport program. Trying to assess the different effects of transport on sex is to think of young people in this context, since children and young people are not necessarily going the same way as adults, so they are no less likely to be affected by age groups than by gender. This thought to me that it was a very important idea. They also discussed flights, carbon equations, and how to encourage the increased use of electric vehicles. They also saw great opportunities for planting, cutting back paper use by using electronic and more. In the human rights section, various grasses are taught. I recall a lot of discussions about equality and bioavailability, which were basically present in the discussion that I personally participated in at the Children's Assembly. They also stressed the equality of all genders and the need to eliminate all prejudices in order to ensure that everyone is allowed to act as they choose. They spoke there about all races should have access to public halls, swimming and sports tanks. They also discussed pay equals, increases in minimum wage, and similar opportunities in the labour market. They also discussed the participation of children in discussions about them, and there was an election age for discussion, and the opinion that he should go down to 16 years was stated. Then I'm going to review a council case that I've given myself for 16 years in a district election that would be, I think, a huge start to take these matters further because there are huge lawsuits that concern children and young people. People are just out of elementary school and will be given the opportunity to participate in local elections. There was talk of access to psychologists, including that every school should be with a psychologist. Of course, there has been a marked change in recent years, i.e. increased availability of psychiatric services within school, but better if required. A waiting list was specifically discussed with psychologists. Empty moments were discussed and equal to all children's access to leisure and sports activities of their choice. It also discussed the importance of public transport and the importance of freedom. They also discussed the importance of those coming here, whether as people seeking a better life or as refugees, that children would have the opportunity not only to learn English but also to be taught in their own language. It was specifically discussed. Then, it was the educational language that, of course, is close to the children. There were warm discussions, especially about swimming and Danish. I now know the Danish speech of my time as Minister of Education and Culture, where I received very few letters on Danish classes. In fact, I am a great spokesman for Danish classes, and I put my opinion on the Children's Council, perhaps nothing about special popularity. But I feel that it is a thought - provoking thought for us in planning the school system for what this situation is all about. We may not be arguing enough about why we are offering a study in Danish, which is, of course, the fact that the North countries are our closest friends, and this is an extremely important area for us both to pursue higher education and to pursue jobs. The Dane is a major entrance - and although it was another northern country, surely Icelanders have attended Denmark. So I wondered, when you hear this discussion, not only as a minister of education, but also ten years later at the Children's Council, exactly the same discussion: What are we doing wrong in speaking about this? Of course, it is important that young ones influence their study. It was then said that even swimming could be a matter of choice, at least until adolescence was reached. That's something I've heard in recent years too, and I'm growing in discussions. But the big picture was that it was important to study according to your individual abilities. There was a considerable discussion that homework was generally too much. It would be necessary for teachers to provide help to students in need of home study, where parents would have a wide range of knowledge and ability to help at home. I find this point very interesting, since it is, of course, well known in discussions about the equation and education system, i.e. that if you put high emphasis on homework, there is, in fact, an even higher standard of care between children, because their background is so different. This was totally arranged by members of the Synod. They also mentioned that school may have been quite a long time. I briefly mention that they also talked about education in schools, and some were mentioned there, for example. Arts, equality, environment, astronomy, so there were articles and factors that the baby council wanted to highlight. Of course, I can't bring a complete list, but I just really want to mention the bioavailability issues because we don't know we're in a place where we can say it's a good thing in our society. There was one senator who said that there was nothing we could do for all the children to get up any ladder, and it could be understood literally and not literally, and I thought it was very beautiful. The bioavailability issues are huge, both tangible and untraceable. I felt that it was the spirit that was moving across the waters of the baby council. I am pleased to have this opportunity to explain in brief. It is clear that the matters discussed at a child - care meeting are in many respects the same issues that we discuss here, and some of them were allowed to discuss more. I mention the school cases, for example, they should certainly be able to understand more discussions at the General Meeting than would be the end of a huge matter for society all. Of course, it is important to get such an important input into that work. I said, when I received this report, that both results could have a direct but more indirect effect. This is a learning process, I think, for us senators to get used to. But I would like to use this opportunity to say that I was very happy for both of these times that this council has been held to find this great interest in members of Congress, and members of the council took a very, very active part, sitting on tables in their discussions, taking time in this conversation. I think most of the people I have at least This inspiration was found in the Council, so I have no doubt that the effect can be direct, but it can also be indirect, for it matters to us. We're getting ideas we can work in here at council, etc. I thought it was an important message that they put themselves before the council. They said: "We are going to be positive; we are going to show honor to one another. We're gonna have some fun. Perhaps we could consider this in our professions here at the council. But this spirit and values certainly came to our attention when we entered the council and shared, this respect for different opinions that we were able to experience in discussions on tables and also in the conversation that was then the whole hall. So I feel like I've done quite well. I like that we can discuss this even though we're here in the last days of the council and someone doesn't think we have much time to go, because this is important. What I would like to see afterward was that the committee's committees examined the content of the report, that this would be examined when we are, for example, in our case. working on situations that directly affect children and adolescents I was talking about transportation. Why not bring in a group of children's emissaries and discuss transportation with them? I remember that at a meeting held here on the grounds of the republic's birthday, a very good talk from this team about driving school was given. It was a child who took her away a huge amount of time in the school bus every day, and I remember it on the lake nose. Why not bring these people to us and get their vision of transportation? Sometimes we are a little shut up in just wanting to talk in education or something that is really tangiblely related to children. But let us not forget that most of the things we are dealing with at the council are dealing with children in one way or another, and it can be very helpful to get their viewpoint into the discussion. I'm not going to keep this any further, Madam President, but I'm going to reiterate my gratitude to the senators for the good and powerful and active participation in the council itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u25	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for the report and also for putting it first in here during the last days of the council. It matters. It's important that we listen, Madam President. Forty - five years ago, the man standing outside the General Assembly Hall and sharing in protests related to a strike. Just eight years old, I came down here to the East and picked out a protest card that said, "What are we going to do with the children? " Yes, this is me here on Aldulis's steps, but I was a very popular media footage the next day. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Earlier this winter, I was one of the senators who had the privilege of participating in a baby council held in Hörpa. How amazing it was to listen to and hear the subjects that were burning in them! They were direct and fearless in saying things their way, asking us members of the same question: What should be done with their children? What does that mean, e.g. how to deal with your children in order to ensure multiplicity? They reminded us of the importance of showing respect for diversity, whether it was related to background, sexual orientation, or sexual expression. They reminded us that as children, they rejoiced at this diversity while we older people feared him and condemned some of him. However, they also complained that the study material was out - of - date and that it was not associated with this changed and diverse world in which they live. Speaking of study, they asked us, too, " What should I do with my children waiting for diagnosis? ' They are far more aware of this than we adult people do. They are directly aware of how long waiting for diagnosiss, such as dyslexia or attention deficits, make it difficult for some of them to get up in the school system and even break out of school. They asked: "Why is this not the first thing to do? But they also came to realize that the economic situation of people is also important. What should be done with children who live in poverty? was one of their questions being raised. Yes, right at this age, they understand the importance of tackle the great inequities in our rich society. The lowest pay has to be raised, and comparable pay for comparable jobs, regardless of gender, was a message they sent us here in the great General Assembly. You see, children experience this inequity from the first hand while we, ministers and senators, are trapped in an ivory tower where poverty and necessities are just words used by members of the government in kitchen calendars. Madam President. What should be done with children who need support when it comes to mental health? It was also a question they wondered about. And the message to the minister on the platform was clear: The children want free psychological services and increase access to it. While the present government draws its feet to fulfill the promise to subsidize the psychological services of this country, the future of this country tells us that we need to think even larger and make these services pass free, since at their age they immediately realize the great need to support the mental health of the people. Yes, Madam President. It is vital that we hear their pleas and stop breaking the council's promise to the nation. What should be done with the children who come here to flee from war or from poverty? The message of the children at the Children's Convention was very clear: Stop sending children out of the country and receive more children. How much better this world would be if the Icelandic government felt like children at a baby's assembly! To them is to receive a human spirit and to get more children with a wide range of backgrounds into the school system something that only makes them better. What should be done with the children who will inherit the earth that we leave uninhabitable? was also a matter of great discussions at the Synod. Truly, the battle on climate is fought by children. While we're at it. Congress members yearn to make the necessary changes to protect the environment when young people face the East on Friday's eastern front and protest inactivity. The same messages that we can see and hear from the windows of Algill every Friday were loudly heard in the Children's Council: Children want to see real surgery. For them, this isn't something that's affecting after they're under a green swarm like most of us in here, but it's affecting their future and the chances of their children to live on this planet permanently. Yes, a respectable president. The children want, for example. Stop using plastics, they want to improve waste efficiency and a more efficient recycling system. They want stronger incentives to switch into electric cars and free public transportation to make them more useful to people. They were also powerful advocates of planting more trees and asking senators such questions as: Why don't we have more windmills in Iceland? What should be done with the children who tell us about their sins in the splendid way of a baby council? Should we continue to ignore their voice, or is it time that we listen and pay attention to what they are saying? They are not brainwashed by society as we are by older ones. Many of us have ceased to believe in a better future, since those in power seem to have lost the link with what is happening all around us. Yes, what should we do with our children who point us to the wrong priorities of Kingdom interests? After all, they are not asking for much. They want their rights to be respected, and they get to participate in their discussions about matters, and they want their opinions to be taken into account, preferably so that their ideas are carried out. Madam President. It is not enough that we gather here part of a day and talk beautifully about a baby council and what it said. It is not enough to keep a beautiful promise and a promise that does not last forever. It's time we had a break. Congress officials actually ask us and are ready to answer my question when I was eight years old: What should I do with my children?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u26	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for taking this report on the program. It was quite an experience for me to attend a baby council and to see all these young people who were getting involved. First, I would like to mention that at the ballot, some ministers went up onto the stage and held a small number there. I must say, Madam President, there I saw a new side of the councilmen, a gate I haven't seen here, where they only crossed their youth and interests, expectations and hopes, and I liked it a lot, and I liked it. I would like to see such a side, not just the stewards, but maybe all of us here, that perhaps we would look to the past and try to figure out who we are and what it is that matters to us. We can see it so clearly in those young men who were what's important, and they were very clear about what's important. After being a local government officer for a long time, you have communicated with children and young people in various ways, and I would like to mention the so - called Youth Council. I believe it is here that more than 60% of rural society has set up this youth council. It's a meeting, for example, by the town board of Smokeytown. with twice a year's youth council, and there have been remarkable and rewarding meetings. They haven't always been so petting you. At times, a person has been arrested in a bakery at such meetings for failing to do what is right and not being taken into consideration by members of the community. And that is just often true; many young people have not been listened to. However, the fact that these youths have come up with some kind of connection between the administrations, whoever they are, and young people in the community. During the last term, the town administration of Smokeyastown also decided to take a test project to allow young men, young bodies, to appoint an audience to the local community, and they took it very well and did it very well and have commended the town government for having done so. They will see what the management board is doing, how decisions are made, what cases are put into place, and of course they have the right to set matters on schedule, so this is a very good stage for the future. Companys are also fully involved in enforcing the United Nations Children's Covenant. Of course, that's not going well. Akureyri was the first country to do that, and I think Kótavogur has also finished, but many rural societies are all about to introduce the children's contract, and of course it's just the good. Children are involved in this assignment. This is not just something that happens on the table of middle - aged men in rural management. I was assigned to such a committee during the introduction of a children's concordat in Smokejanestown, along with the young men and a employee, and then to one more local representative, and I learned a lot and benefited greatly from the privilege of participating in it. As we've come up here, we're always making sense to people, we always think we know what's best for people, but then when you start asking our children, they don't always agree with us on what they really care about. That was my choice in a talk of the highest order. Prime Minister and then in a talk. The senator mentioned before me to the subjects that the children are considering may not make us wonder. This report shows that environmental concerns are important. Children have this so - called climate anxiety. They're just a touch of their future. They don't know what's going to happen, what the world will be like when we leave it. Are we getting a better understanding of the world, or are we going to take to ourselves much more than we really need, which could harm future generations? Children are also wondering about financiallocks. They don't know anything about money. They do not know how to read out your salary. They don't know how to pay taxes. What is a personal discount? There are some of these things that young people are wondering about, and they don't realize because they are not under stress. Young people also speak about sexual education. They are not necessarily talking about sex education; they are primarily looking to education about sex and how sex is, what is the difference between them, and then we just learn the line and respect for the sex that we do not belong to. This is what children are asking about, and it is vital that we consider such questions. You also hear one thing forever and ever that a youth's spiritual health is deteriorating. Children are anxious, touchy, and may be influenced by social media. It is a matter that we adults must take seriously, that most of us will not end up taking anxiety drugs or something like that. We need to respond. What causes so much anxiety in young people? There is anxiety that I think many of us adults were not necessarily dealing with, not to the extent that you hear that young people are struggling. Children are pointing out what we can do better, and of course we should just listen and be open to what they are telling us. This is where transportation has been called. Children don't have a car test, but they need to get around. They need to go to school, and they need to have leisure time, and all of this needs to be examined. Are we chargeing children for getting to a place that is important to them while we drive around on our decks between sides? All these things matter. These have been referred to as bioavailability issues. These are major questions that we adults need to take into account. That's the question. A senator mentioned earlier: What should be done with the children? And what should we do for the children? Will we stand with them, or will they always be just and holy, adapt to some environment that we have created and think is right for all and for all?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u27	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister for his well - arranged career. It is refreshing and a little refreshing to magazine through the results of a baby council. I've come to believe that the main focus of our peers would get quite a smoother course if it was only 15 years old in terms of elections to the Generals. [[Top-to-max.]] This is the age limit. While the government of Iceland is struggling to tighten the foreign law - ere. A senator laughs here, it's all very funny - and while the government organizes mass abuse in unannounced circumstances, children will be called after the reception of more refugees, greater humanity, less prejudice. And while staff escapes medical institutions for financial policies, which are criticized every year for the payment of budgets, the children call for better health care professionals and partnerships to promote health care care. And while the Continental Department is struggling to finance psychology legislation, a law adopted by the General, the kids want to go even further and call for free psychological services for everyone. They also call for better benefits from income - free public transportation, requiring full - time remuneration for health care. It's just an excellent socialism, an emphasis on the common, social security, the sharing, the sharing, the thing we have together. The government has provided a financial program that we will discuss next week. It's a plan that's basically about the opposite. It provides the means of greatly reducing the extent of the state and the common economy over the years to keep public investments to a minimum during the next few years. This policy is contrary to the results of a Synod and this appeal to promote the health systems and institutions we have together. I think the government should just listen to these kids. You might, for example. First, take up, and present a new, revised climate-based strategy according to the radical climate policy presented in the results of a Synod. So I think that it would be a good idea, too, to adopt the financial program, to review it on the basis of a pedestrian's appeal that it was just a matter of primary importance that we help each other, stick together; to convergence, cooperation, and helping keep things going against society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u28	A respectable president. You don't have to be an adult to change the world. A child council report is a very important field to lend children a voice but at the same time provide members of the general council. Showing interest groups in their experiences, realities, and circumstances is very valuable and important to take to heart this information. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Einarsson came in here earlier, we've been in the city of Rhines a lot of fun hearing our children's voices and young people. A youth council regularly meets with the town government, where local councils first hear from the young men of town regarding their vision of their situation. This is a huge foundation for young people, and it is much the same for us as it was for the town council. We need to motivate young people to participate in their community, to be a child council, and to access the town government to do so. Of course, a discussion at the Children's Council suggests that children are not only interested in specific matters of the child but in the community. Children's Parliaments made it a big point to all genders, climates, human rights, the well - being of children, and social responsibility. There are many parts of the system so clear what we can do better when it comes to supporting and serving children. The waiting lists from the Children's and Youth Department of Hospitals and National Analysis and Advisor Control Centres are and have been way too long. Children's senators also introduced access to psychological services, as many members of the council have entered the above, asking why the access was not better and why this service was not free. Psychological services are involved, as we have previously noted in the United States. It should be our priority at the General Assembly to free children and young people up to 25 years of age even now, especially where depressed people are heading for one of the most expensive illnesses in 2030. Children's rights were highly respected, their right to feel comfortable at home, and their heads covered. Association between a child council report; equal opportunity for all; improved employment markets; better working conditions for health professionals; finding work in accordance with their education, equal to all genders, clean land, and protection from the ocean. I'm going to quote one of the senators with the permission of a president: ◯ We're all in the same boat on this sea, which is the world. Indeed, the future of the land is in good hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u29	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for this discussion of a baby council. I want to say about what I've heard here that I especially enjoyed hearing how the prime minister came into this matter and discussed it, as presented here, just in human language. That's very important. That was also the case. Einarsson Guðbrandur's doing a great job. Many experiences come back to you when you are told that young ones may not be able to read pay. We don't know everything, and that's how it is when you come into the council and you're even 50 years old, that you're also new and you don't know everything, so we're studying our whole life. But what I just wanted to talk about here are three points that the prime minister mentioned that most had been discussed in this council, there were environmental, human rights, and education, and I prepared a little to discuss the academic issues. I'd like to tell you one story about walking, walking up the stairs that can't all come, or maybe we can tell you that the walk is going in a different direction. When I arrived at council 2013, I began helping a young deaf boy, and I feel that his story and his family are involved in this discussion, and he went through the discrimination he as a child had experienced in school, elementary school, and as a youth in high school. He was born deaf, and he was unable to use a earpiece, so he was basically out of control for hearing. By the time he went to school, the Allied Council had recently approved a law on Icelandic Sign Language. So he and his family were very excited when the school trip began. His parents were filled with optimism that a new law set up by the General helped him with both sign language and sign language, since the boy was motivated, successful, and a fine student. But we need to keep in mind that sign language is really his native language. The basic school in his hometown may not have been well - equipped to receive instruction for the deaf and despite the good wishes of local authorities and despite the laws and regulations, when he was to be studied in 9th grade, there was no sign - language teacher at school. He did not get into the Hostage School when it was desired before studying the 9th grade. In fact, by his parents and family endurance, resources were made for students of his age, who were supported by Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddddddóttir, then a minister of education, and who handled all matters that turned toward his disability and thus showed a great deal of kindness. The boy spent two winters in school at the Deaf's Communication Center. It was his best school year. There he received fine training in various ways. Figuratively speaking, he began to learn English. A respectable president. Today, he is working in a high school career, and he has had two years of work, is doing well, and has taken a driving test. But why has he, a well - equipped student and a diligent student, not chosen a course and forced on a school course? Yes, the simple answer is that the school system in Iceland has failed him. I know the children at the Children's Hall don't want that kind of discrimination. Even though he had studied basic school for ten winters, he still cannot read for his own benefit. He had an opportunity to learn English for two winters at the communication center. Today, he writes a message to his parents in English rather than English. Yes, a respectable president, an Icelandic school system, has not given this 17 - year - old boy an opportunity to learn Icelandic even though he was born an Icelander like his parents and his whole family. During his preschool years, his parents struggled to obtain a signed language lesson for the boy. Despite the open right of the study material, only a few books were made, but not at all, and he had the right to become like other schoolchildren. If he had been blind, he would have received all his textbooks for every winter, including nine status books at a National Institute of Education to create the study for the blind, but there is no such value for the deaf. Blindness's subject is in the hands of the Ministry of Health, but the subject of the deaf is in the hands of the Ministry of Education. This discrimination by the disability and location of the management system is undefeated, and below all caves, children still live in Iceland today by not receiving appropriate school textbooks. The language of Deaf children is in the land of paralysis, and change is now needed. This boy's parents and family have repeatedly been in contact with a minister since 2013, and only one of them gave them hope. The family has been far - reaching for their son and children in a similar situation but despite the changes made twelve years ago, nothing has really changed. Icelandic children who have spent 12 years in school, but the school system has not been able to teach them how to communicate in Icelandic, let alone the ability to read in their parents'mother tongue. To communicate with a deaf child in the family, parents, siblings, grandparents need to have the power to speak English. A respectable president. V.E.G. Prime Minister. I thank the Minister's verbal report and good words. I believe that it was not the lawgiver's will at the time that a total minority of disabled children were treated in the school system as unhumanly as it is described. I'll agree with the highest. Prime Minister that not all children reach the stairs, but it is minimal that all of them will have the same opportunity to try.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u30	Madam President. I want to be like others first, thank you very much. Prime Minister for the report given here and of interesting discussions that have taken place here. A respectable president. In winter, the Kingdom center showed the programme Versailles'general enthusiasm for the people, their work, and our coverage of the nervous system that exists in this country. The program was attributed to the history of huge social change, the history of the exodus, and the status of workers throughout the country. These factors exasperated many wounds and discussions that may have persisted for years. Among the items drawn up were children's work, but as we so many know, especially those growing up in the coastal areas around the country, children working on both heavy work to the sea and rural areas, and this was certainly under different circumstances until the 1990's. Although this may be a negative reaction to the harsh Icelanders, who were not hurt by having a problem at school in 7th grade, the rights and rights of the children in the last decades are no less than dramatic leaps forward. To me, children are the most important group of every community, the key to the successful future of land and nation, and I allow me to say that the future is bright. In March of this year, at the Children's Council of 350 Children in the United States, the debate was certainly about big issues, with the permission of presidents: the transfusion of gay men, the poverty, the increased education on sexual health, protection, and climate, and so many other things, as we have so well seen today. The message is good, and the message is urgent, and the light is more clear from the 2022 Children's Council of the United States that none of us are left behind, on the contrary. The results are marked by respect for all people, nature, and animals, and premise in their approach to them by love of neighbor and responsibility, something most of us can most of us certainly agree with. It is important that we here at the Council listen to the voice of children in all respects, that is our job to integrate public demands, to build up for the future. And who better to put the guard in that way than those who will survive it? No one, a respectable president, is better off. While it is true that this is the case with a child council, I believe politics do little by talking with children and subjects that are linked to them themselves. It's nice to hear what you're sayingGuðbrandur Einarsson I think they should be taken considerably more than many rural societies do. As we have also noted, transport may not be a unique task for you to look for in them. It is, in fact, all of that. There is, of course, all issues that affect children in one way or another. And as members of our profession as members of Congress, we can influence so much as concerns children, and it is important that we protect their interests and provide them with the environment that supports their growth and growth. This means that we provide equal opportunities for every child, especially for those with a weak voice in the community. It means that we provide equal access to children to necessary services but also that we provide them with access to the future by building a green and carbon-free society, that we, adults too, change our association with the fragile nature of Iceland, and by making it more possible for each of us to adapt to the realities of human climate change. As a result, they have been calling in particular. This means asking young ones when it comes to matters directly or indirectly related to them, whether by education, school service, increased mental health care, or their safety. I'd like to motivate us to use ourselves with all our weight for violent prevention, but violence against children is a lesion in our society. The same is true of violent children. Then there is the need for intensive and special services at least to reduce, but it is a huge deal of justice that society does what it can to improve the feeling and opportunities of those who need more support. As a result, their prospects for being active in society, employment markets, and whatever they choose are the future. A respectable president. While time is advising the past and many good things have been done in the past, children are better off today. Opportunity, access and service to them, on their terms, has grown and it is well. Of course, we can always do better, and that is what we do here. helping to make things better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u31	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for his career. And at the council of the children came children of all ages throughout the land, and of all flesh; and to the council, the honour was given to us to sit in the council. Discussing with the children about matters that concern them is of vital importance. We should not make decisions about those matters without consultation and a conversation with them. The results of the Synod are directly related to the issues we are discussing here daily at the Hall of Congress. These are important matters. It involves health care, safety, study, environment, sex education, rights, access, energy, transportation, and other matters that seem relatively familiar to us. But these children and children in general may always have those views. They do not appear in their minds once a year at a Synod, and children and young people should be able to take part in decision - making issues related to them. You see, young people are often viewed as individuals who can be overlooked when it comes to making decisions in society. In general, they are not allowed to interfere with decisions that even affect their lives. They may simply be considered unnecessary or adorable - they have the kids with - but often their opinion is the most important thing. Kids can still be kids, but they can still share in their community, take responsibility, and participate in decision making. There is a basis for young people who want to be influenced, and this is the youth - oriented body of the local community, as has been shown in the case of other members of Congress today. Youth law states that rural society is obliged to be with the advice of young people. The law says, by permission of the President: The Council of Youth and the Council of Youth, however, is responsible for the development of the European Commission. The role of young people is also the case. ... tobeinstructions for counselling the affairs of young people of the local community. Aggressive governments set more rules about roles and choices in the youth council. The effectiveness of youth councils varies. In some cases, local governments do not seem to be very interested in communicating with young members of the local community and even ignoring their willingness to participate. We need to strengthen the local youth counsel. We need to encourage the local governments to use the experts there, for young people are man - made. Children are our primary experts in the affairs of children, and they should get the respect they deserve. We need to let young people to the table. This was done at a baby council. There, young people were taken to the table and given the opportunity to make their voices heard. One of the things I enjoyed very much, and evidence of a positive change in the community was that the council began in a short time from the others. Children are raised, they were the introductions, and they began their presentation of their names, their source of origins, and what personal names they use. This should help us to get more involved. For me, my presentation would be like this: I'm Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdóttir, I'm from the Citizen, and I'm using her personal name. Perhaps we should begin the terms of the coming up of members of the council and tell them which personal names they use because we plan on which personal name is used is no longer likely. V.E.G. President. I would like to commend those who took part in planning the Children's Council, both for a successful assembly and for letting their children in. In particular, I would like to commend the children who participated as members of the Synod, and they deserve to be thanked for their participation. We're here to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u32	A respectable president. Many good talks have been given, and during this hearing, I recalled a trip I took with a friend of mine a few years ago. When we were getting to his house, a group of children came to the car, and they started beating on the dolls. He laughs and laughs at something in return, and I say to him, "Oh, children can be so tiresome." He says to me: I think it's all right. I like it when children are paddling like this in adults. For decades, children have been so oppressed and so oppressed that I am pleased with them when they act. The Icelandic Children's Council is certainly a good stage for children to take action, to promote their views. After having participated in the council now, I can commend their organization and arrangements in particular, but the success of the children was, of course, the best of all. The extent to which they care about the affairs of our society and how interested they are in affecting it for the better was not overlooked. During the council, the children set their own values, including those of the United States. A positive attitude, joy, and respect for everyone, and I'm not from the fact that we here might imitate them. During the council, children present ideas that they want to focus on. After the council's results are compiled, an agent of the children will try to promote and act in accordance with the rules of the children's covenant. What, though, would be the most important message and value of the children's covenant? It is just that any decision that concerns children should be made on their own and on this occasion, this discussion here, let me recall again and again how easily these views were here when decisions were made regarding a pandemic. It was clear to everyone very early in the process that the interests of children were not always guided by that decision - making process. In this respect, our children were encouraged and our priorities. I'll think of it so we won't forget it, so we'll learn at least from this march toward children. It can never be acceptable to sacrifice children's rights and health in order to protect others from them. When we discuss here the results of a child - care conference after we could finally keep it down to the limitations of a pandemic, I would also like to remind you that children's rights and voices are the most important thing when it is weighed. When communication about civil rights and people's freedom and the freedom of children are unpopular, then the most important thing is to hold a baby council. Most important, we will discuss the rights of children, their opinions, and their suggestions. Gays should be allowed to donate blood. Security everywhere. Teachers can't be Rasistar. It's less math work. The representatives of a Synod certainly did not accept their views, and their work yields many fine suggestions. The contribution of children is invaluable, says a report by the Synod. Do not let the comments of our children, their ideas, and their suggestions be yet another factor that we older ones use when convenient for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u33	Madam President. I'm not gonna keep this far, I'm just gonna say thank you. Councilmen who have spoken here. We'll discuss it here if we're really listening to children, and I have to say that after we've watched it. Those who come to the council of the children, these things. Senators are listening to children, paying attention to their views. Sometimes it's a little hard to measure the results or results of a council like this. We can say: Wait, what of the suggestions took place within a certain period of time? It is then very measurable goals, but I have just as much faith in the indirect influence that is really this culture that has yielded to it. Councilmen who have paid off in speeches. I've heard what. Councilmen here quote in their talks when issues related to the subject of the Synod have been presented, indirect effects that are also very important. Maybe that's how I approach this project. I think of this as a journey that began here with a change of law 2018 and is about how we can enhance the impact of children and young people on our community, how we can strengthen child-friendly democracy on the field of the country, and I think it's going well. What pleases me is exactly this active conversation we've had between senators and baby councilmen, who I hope will stay on. We look forward to our next baby council. Then we will also have the opportunity to take the position in the leading order and, in effect, to see what the outcome of this council has been. I think it may be our next assignment here at the council, i.e. ask ourselves, " What has changed since the last Synod and the first Synod? ' What has been the effect, and will we see it during our next session? But by the way, I don't have any more words on this, Madam President, and thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u34	The President deserves to review the entire situation. It is certainly being placed in the form of an arrangement that has been under provisional law before it is too complicated to review as such. However, there is another problem with NPA and the tolerability of the law. In other words, this is a service to disabled persons with long - term needs, where in provisional terms they include a number of contracts that during the induction period make a contribution to the State Fund. As long as this system is being started, it is written in the provisional terms of the law that in 2018 the state's funds will contribute to the following number of contracts by 80 contracts in 2018 and then gradually increase in 2018, 103 agreements in 2020, 125 contracts, 21, 150 contracts, and then in 2020, up to 170 contracts. And that's as far as it goes. Since there is no 2020 inside these laws, it may be unclear whether they will continue to pay for 172 contracts in 2003 or not. However, financial programmes say: There is a growing budget for NAPA contracts that lasts for a long period of 320 million. K. from 2023 to support the current contracts, the current agreements will be examined. This is of interest because the government, the government, has failed to pay for the number of contracts prescribed in the law, despite the fact that there is a waiting list for such agreements. The page of the NPA dot shows in an article from the eight - date date, identifying at least all the rural areas that violate law and state funds are intolerable. It discusses specific judgments regarding the duties of fellow workers to provide these agreements somehow, despite the fact that the state's funds are not involved because the government has benefited from this arrangement, so that only when the budget that is approved in budgets is completed, there is no further agreements to be made. That is, in fact, a bit reverse, considering what the law itself says, that the year 2018 is supposed to set up 80 contracts or government funds. The government pays for its share for 80 contracts. Actually, 78 treaties were made in 2018. The year 2019 was to be set up in 103 treaties, but the State paid only earlier 90 percent. In 2020, this 125 was to be paid by the government, but the remaining number was reduced to 83 and the remaining amount came in 2001. It was about the budget then. It was to be 150 but was to be paid only a government that paid only with 93 contracts. This is exactly as continued in the financial program, that it is expected to pay on the NPA contracts of the current financial contracts, and this is so contrary that the government is going to make a pay deal with a number of contracts and puts funds on the budget that works for Asia, but not when the funds run out, it is only possible to share with the government's pay through new contracts. That's when societies do things that normal. It is all right if the government is not going to pay its end, as if you can't establish this contract, because otherwise we have to finance it fully, and the deal says that the government has to come from all sides of this number of judges. It would also mean that once it exceeds the number of contracts, it is when the government is at least part of the cost of this number of contracts, all over contracts are completely at the expense of the rural society. But we are in a position to see that the number of Kingdom proclaimers has not yet been reached. It says that when the state decides to cancel and not participate in paying for agreements, it would be understandable that we too will quit and not establish agreements that the State does not contribute rather unfairly and is in a certain way a slightly peculiar problem for how we use four minutes of budget. The government's right to say only financial rights are now available. As a result, we are not allowed to pay. They are technically more righteous under the constitution. It's not up to you to pay your money. Yet, in so many other matters, government officials continue to pay for people's rights. Although it's not a budget, it's just a financial bill that later comes up with some of the unemployment benefits, e.g. Despite their high costs, the pay for child - welfare, or unemployment, does not end. They continue to pay in spite of their financial resources because they are somehow just expected, and such a tradition is really bad that they are done only after one year, that they are being swept up on the funds that are missing at the end of the year. But if it's a little clear to me that it doesn't really have to be done with these budgeties, if it's just minus and the Minister needs to explain how to balance these budgetors, whether they have to deal with it by saying that there's a lack of appreciation and then in the next financial plan and financial therapy, it's just corrected to get it over and over. He does not have to accept this by means of any new means or, in fact, not really. But the constitution is a little under control, so this problem is formed with the MPA contracts. If strictly accepted, it is being done by the law that it must not be paid, so it is. And part of the reason why this is happening is that the South values of the government, the Ministry of finance, the Ministry of Health, or any agency that makes an assessment of how much this agreement costs. It's simply too small. That's why it's too little, usually. Then the cost of each other's agreements is fixed hair, except what? That those reaching out for such a contract are, in fact, preconceived by a certain importance of such a need. And it wants to be like that, it's usually the most expensive deal. First and if you take 25% of the contracts, the most expensive of the contracts, the average is, of course, much higher than the average of all the contracts. As a result, the budget is completed much sooner if not all the contracts are being financed, and on the basis of the average of all agreements, it is only the most expensive part of the contracts, and perhaps the government did not realize that it would be prioritised so when it was being chosen for contracts and who did not or might not, in effect, were deliberately chosen. I have no idea, but the conclusion is that it is promised a certain funding, a fixed number of contracts, but not met and always less and less met each year. So I just want to draw attention to this problem in view of the budget that is being referred to as not really a warrant for some temporary share of the State in 2003 and later, although it may be expected that the State will continue. It has been established in the financial programme, but the number remains the problem and the court that recently fell over here that local communities were obliged to provide these contributions to set up these contracts, I think I will have an interesting effect on this party at the coming point in the definition of this matter that it must be adapted to that time of work and the rest period and so on. That will be an interesting development, I think, in the near future and a problem, if you can say so. This is a predictable problem that needs to be tackled. It is not expected that there would be no policy, saying a statement about this in the financial program that you would expect. There's a problem. It's a law that gives people certain rights. That right is not being fulfilled. As a result, there is a problem that needs to be met, but there is nothing in government policy that is to be demonstrated in a financial program that tells us how to do it until the next five years, and all it tells me is that there will be nothing done about it. It's just a persistent problem that always ends with the rural communities that will likely end up like a lot of other projects that feel like the local community just say: No thanks. We're gonna throw this back in the head of the state. Where, then, will it be? Those who are left with pain in their forehead? Is that exactly what these rights have? I'm just rather sad that we're not even seeing suggestions on how to solve this problem. Doesn't even have a lot of ideas about that rider, do it when it's really not complicated. This requires funding, no more complicated than that, and it is really the purpose of the government to finance legal projects. A General Assembly has established laws on rights and responsibilities. They meet those rights requires a coin, and it's the government's job to figure out how you financing it too much to be dependent, to be behaved. But we don't see any solutions, so I'm going to look forward to seeing how this situation develops. This is likely to continue the next few years because we at least have a government that does nothing about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u35	Ólafsson. Madam President. I just wanted to come up here for a moment and encourage the council members, both from government and government, to support this matter. This is an important matter in this way to facilitate the import of organic food, especially from the United Kingdom right now after Bgret and in that case would have had to be a lot earlier because those who have been importing goods from Britain, organic products, have had to pay extra expenses now for the first six months of the year, but hopefully it won't be a game problem after we've removed this bill by law and my hope is that this body of Congress will be very supportive.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u36	Madam President. This is another important bill. In part, a certain legal structure, such as the P.R., is being established. We've all heard these public defense levels rise and fall, both in Kuwait and in volcanic eruptions and in earthquakes, and so we should not be surprised. But it's good to have this tied up in the law. There is also an increased demand for action, a public defense action of the good and other changes that may not have been clear enough in previous laws. What I believe, however, is that the most important part of this bill is one small paragraph that speaks of how we can receive a foreign rescuer if we need it after a major disaster. It has been so that if a very serious earthquake occurred, we could not easily, or at least not legally accept, this bill has been approved, e.g. Get dogs to this country. There's not a lot of trained bandits. Dogs in the country and dogs are one of the most powerful tools we can get that we can find in the ruins and that we can get dogs from abroad with the rescue teams that come to assist our rescue teams. It's just a matter of saving lives, and it has been a member of the Icelandic International Rescue Force, in fact for years, and has led to it. To Haiti after the earthquake there, I can confirm that this is a thing that will save lives. But it's not just the meetings that matter. It is also true that by means of such rescue measures, doctors and nurses would come, and we may not automatically acknowledge them and may allow them to work here in the country even though they are in times of need. But this legal adjustment allows the Minister to set up a Regulation on how to do all of this and I just know that this is an object we're going to land on. It's just a question of when we need to ask for help. Then it's better that we here at the Council have created the regulations and the laws and the fixings so that we're not using the old saying, that if we need the law, we'll have the law ready for the emergency, and it's my hope that this bill will be supported by Congress, and we can be ready to receive assistance if we need the law as soon as the law has become the law, if the bill is legal. No more calls have been made.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u37	A small senator of the Southwestern district, Rafn Rafen Ólafsson. Madam President. Just a moment. I would have liked to see us accept some of the comments that had come in the first second and third and second discussion about simplifying the process used when people are really getting divorced because they are changing the divorces of the law. But I just hope that we here at the council will be able to get together on these changes and take care of them at the next council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u38	After the third discussion, the president will finish this case and vote to get control of the Land Hospital. Sad to say, there had been a rejection of the change proposal that both employees and a representative of the user's staff had access to the board. But I just want to reiterate what I said here in the second discussion on this matter. I don't think the government is really necessary in real life, but it wasn't that bad in the sense that this government here is putting some kind of intermediary between the council and the Ministry and then the Land Hospital, where perhaps some kind of more information could be given us so that we've got a lot of information on the health system and some of the reasons that the government just didn't believe in it, despite the fact that the consequences are coming back and forth. It is issued a warning, a distress call, and nothing happens despite the same operation, and again, of course, it is a warning and a distress call, and somehow nothing changes. They do not listen to the tips that have just come from the hospital or other sources in the reports we have received from independent sources. Even that's not going to happen, maybe when this government has established a government, somehow with the people sitting in there, maybe they'll be there people who will finally take notice of it. I can honestly not say exactly what an arrangement they're going to have, but if it does, it's only positive. But until then, I look forward to actually seeing a better source of information. Perhaps this means that if the government that says there is going to be more and more accurate information for the council, it may also be already making legal rights, and if it succeeds, if there is any product of this, it is positive to force quite a high price on it, I would say, it should be relatively easy to get a good transparency in the medical management system, but somehow it has not been. We've received very conflicting information about what the Ministry of State knows in terms of what the National Hospital is trying to tell them, and we're getting information from the Ministry of Health, which is not as accurate as the National Hospital or the Ministry, so the Congress is actually getting bad information unless it's received directly from the Land Hospital. It's bad, so I'm going to see if the board is going to be another side of the guard or something like that of the council. There's something that can happen also negative, so I'm just, I'm not quite sure about this. I'm gonna take the Pope's positive action and tell him it's more likely than anything else that this is a positive step. But that is really all for these blessed rulers, who have not listened to very clear voices and very clear tips for far too long. I just hope that this will work out. There will finally be some people that the fund's paying attention to, but maybe now they'd have been sitting there with their own agents. Then perhaps they will pay attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u39	The strength of the district, Gísli Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. I just wanted to express my satisfaction that this bill is in discussion 3 and I know it's a bill that will be supported by the entire Senate, and I just wanted to talk about it. It was also a pleasure to hear earlier today, if I remember correctly, the highest. One prime minister explains that a better view of what has been going on in various places we have been saving people with disabled ones and others. I think I hope that what we've started to look at these things and started to dare to study them and explore them and put them in the limelight. That's something that really matters. We look at these black spots in our past and are not ashamed of them. It's supposed to be too much for us to watch, we don't dare learn from the mistakes made, and we don't have the courage to forgive in some case, so I just hope we see it happen again and again and more happening that bill like this will be a welcome here at the council and that we're fixing up with the past and taking that responsibility. Although it is not ours, it may be our predecessor to deal with us. Then.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u40	In, a respectable president, on behalf of the majority of the welfare committee, I recommend to the Committee to conduct a bill on changing the law on unions and social issues. The bill was referred back to the Committee after the second discussion, the excuse, and the committee has again discussed the matter. The committee met Bjarnhökur Götadddótttir and Jón Þór Þorvaldsson Gautadóttir from the Department of Employment and Services. In view of the discussion, the committee also received a memo from the Society and the Ministry's Office. Then more part wants to make up a few things. The bill's close. First, consider: The majority need to explain why a judge's appointment will be in the way the bill assumes and especially why some judges will not be appointed as judges. The majority of these points to the need to keep in mind that in any case before socialization, there are five judges. The three judges appointed by current legislation or nominated by the Supreme Court are in all cases, but depending on each case, any judge takes place as a fourth and fifth judge when a social hearing judges judge on the basis of a law on union unions and work disputes involving the members of the ASI and the sector of the sector, are appointed by the judges of the three - year term when Social Affairs judges judge matters that arise between parties. According to the Treaty of government labour agreements, judges who have been designated on the basis of the law for three years at the same time as the collective members of trade unions, and economic and economic ministers, or the European Union, replaced by the Allied Associations of Iceland and the Organizations, are a trade union union group outside the Total Association of Social Affairs. It itself appoints judges to do the same for a professional who is not a representative of the business community. The bill suggests that the judges who sit on all matters of society will be appointed untimely to ensure their independence and impartiality. In contrast, the majority of them were not considered to be an excuse to provide a comparable arrangement for the actions of the judges appointed by the labour market in the court on the basis of a law on union unions and labour disputes or the legal agreements of public employees, as shown in my speech. Second, the more part wants to decide how this bill harmonizes with GRECO's comments on command and the claims of the Supreme Court of Social Affairs. GRECO's report, referred to by the bill, made comments on the procedure of the order of a social judge, in particular the judges appointed and appointed by the Supreme Court, who were considered to have to be more secure than today independence and impartiality and the rationality and rationality of the judgment. The majority believe that with the bill there is a change in response to GRECO's criticism, but a greater part feels that the proposal for an untimely appointment by a minister, the judge appointed by the Supreme Court, is to ensure an even greater degree of independence and impartiality. In addition, the more part shows that the rules for increased requirements and non-term systems are falling to ensure response to GRECO's indications. Finally, the greater part is that the bill is the result of the work of a member of the Ministry, organized representatives of the work force of the labour market, which are members of the community that make up the wide reconciliation that was achieved between the above parties as well as in the viewpoints given in the Committee opinion that the greater portion is right to respect the material results of this committee, and that the above would suggest that the bill should be adopted according to the definitions of change. Under committeed literature plus what it says, Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Orri Páll Jóhannsson and Óli Björn Kárason. I've finished my case. No more have taken a vow of silence and are done with discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u41	A respectable president. I present a committee party on the matter of changing climate laws, No. 70/2012, with respect to simple correction of the part. There's a nominee on the issue. It is very simple and self-explanatory, with which all members of the environment and transport committee are writing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u42	Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir. A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the environment and transport of the Committee for Committees on Proclamation to legalize the ships. The bill suggests that there will be a simple rule in a way that four law columns will be united into a single series of laws on ships. In addition, a number of chemical changes are proposed and can be mentioned only in the context of the implementation of tasks from both the exception and the Commission's orders for the Grouping Room. There are also clear rules regarding the minimal design of the rights of small ships. The committee discussed the matter and came to a meeting of guests and received reviews. This is reported in a committee study. The above - mentioned views follow. The Management Board wants more parts of the Environment and Transport Committee. That's special. The committee discussed the part of the bill that indicates that the services and variations of the design will be carried away from special committees, committees and services of the Commission's orders to the Grouproom. In view of the majority of the committee, there is a change to the improvement in the number of members, those who have appointed a representative of the Committee. On the one hand, it is a camper partner and, on the other, a corporation. Rights are created not only an added requirement to care for their members but also a place to care for their interests. This also involves a more efficient system that contributes to consistent decisions. Then the commission discussed the freshness that turns to the development of passengers, passenger boats, and shipping vessels set up at the Transport Service how the safety design of a ship should be owned. The majority rejoices in the change of the arrangement and stresses the importance of participation, making a conscious effort to evaluate the need for ships in their behalf. In addition, the greater part is the importance of taking into account the ship's management in travel services, such as making it possible for a sailor to receive a safe seat, training from an approved party, in some case, to replace a driver. Finally, the committee discussed a number of factors that led to the development of a major part of the bill. First, a change in the minimum number of ships includes an even clearer word for the minimum number of rights. The majority of the Committee thus stresses the aim of ensuring a safe water level and a clear set of minimum values according to international rule. In view of the viewpoints presented in the discussion, however, it is clear that there is a need to provide space for experienced sailors to gain the right to remain in the driver's position, as has been customary in certain areas of the country where humans have been difficult. Because of this, the longer part suggests that to date July 1, 2024, or one and a half years from the execution of the law, the number of ships on 15 m will be higher and the duration of the registration and the shorter or shorter allowed to operate the driver's position will be more than 19 hours away, and the subject will have to travel 12 months in the past three years. Second, some changes are suggested in order to enhance the clarity of the judiciary bill as well as to ensure the clearance of Iceland's National Relation Guard for boarding ships. Then third, there is a change in national immunity law, adjacent to belts, economic law, and land base, No. 41/1979, which includes The aim is to enhance the clarity of the bill, which states that the legislation should take to foreign ships, which are the more detailed conditions in the Icelandic introduction. To date, however, the term indentation has not been defined in Icelandic law and is suggested to define Article 8. the rights of the agreement will be established here on the land. Finally, changes are proposed mainly to increase harmonisation and to respond to minor comments in the reviews received by the Commission on these factors as well as other changes in the majority of them are also referred to for a detailed consideration in the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee. Under the opinion of more than one part of the Environment and Transport Committee, as well as the above, why Councilmen, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Njälli Friðbertsson, Ingibjörg of Ísrael, and Orri Páll Jóhannsson, have declared themselves acceptable to Jakob Frímann Magnússon. A respectable president. One of the changes proposed by more than a part of the Environment and Transport Committee aims to make further progress in terms of their approval, the implementation of foreign freight transport ships in planned cruises. However, following distribution of the committee opinion, it was found that the change did not make it clear enough that the ships themselves needed to meet the demands of the sun's international agreement, not merely a government that would have been set down. To deal with this, I have proposed adjustments to the adjustment proposal with the adjustment proposals of the majority of the items I suggest will be accepted and offered. A respectable president. In addition to this, I would like to finally stress on the bill that in the bill it is specifically noted that the overall design of fishing ships should always be arranged so that work and rest hours of crew are in accordance with seamen's regulations. This includes making the law more a requirement for design than a precautionary design. According to the bill discussed here, the design should be agreed on according to seaman law. However, in view of concern over the concern of sailors'organizations, the law will lead to a reduction in crews at the expense of rest, and the work load will be intended to take the design of fishing vessels for further inspection within the ministry. At the same time, it is the same with the respect of the rights of a sailor for work and rest time. The lack of concern for the committee is, in fact, forbidden by seaman law to ensure seamen's rights and security. In addition, in this country, there is a period of work and rest of crews on fishing ships in seamen's law. Although there is a legal period for rest. There is always a question of how to monitor it. There is no need for fishermen to be overly demanding on their ships, but there are health consequences. At the 16th and 17th. The bill is presented with related rules regarding the minimum number of ship managers and motor operators to be on board fishing ships, based on this design and requirements for the size and power of the ships. The law recommends the number of ships needed to sail safely. Similar rules are in force today, although the total number of fishing vessels in this arrangement does not have a basis for it. That is the case with 1 mg. 23rd par. the bill that the watch and picture of a fishing vessel should always be arranged so that the crew's work and rest period are in accordance with the requirements of a sailor. End-of-view. Is It Designed? No. 35/85, and regulations that are based on those which contain regulations for shipmate rights. The bill to fix the ships'seas also contains regulations regarding the time of work and the rest of the ship. The bill thus contains a set of provisions designed to ensure work and rest time for all members of the crew. In view of the above views, the Agency and the sailors plan to build up the Ministry, as mentioned above, more closely consider the design of fishing vessels and the rights of high places for work and rest time. That's a lot. This is very important, since, as we have seen, this is the arrangement for rest time and design of fishing vessels in the Navy law, and hopefully this work will be done quickly and effectively and will be done by stakeholders. That's all. Yes, but I've brought this up as an opinion to the committee and I've given the manager the review of my share, the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u43	A king named what? 4th, including Smoke. ....., no...................... Smoke. n., Ingi In Jónsson. Madam President. I guess that's because of me on this minority party or something, don't you think? paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir, which is exactly, if I remember correctly, 4th. Smoke. n. That's good. We've both been given a presentation on one board. There are many things in this bill, as is meant to understand when four layers of law are joined together. One law that covers such a vast area as the ships of the sea have many reasons to view it. I may be able to start with the interesting things that I would like to mention in particular about the payment of the environment and transport committee because we found a gap in the Icelandic law, which was actually a legal void on the shores of this law or this bill. If the law's first reference is to introductions around Iceland as the scene of some kind of operation, which was said to occur in the past in some four law columns, has for the first time, if this bill is a law, it's a direct influence on something. So there may be especially these foreign slaughters, a ship that has been placed near sea pens. There are regulations in the bill that referred to them, and it dawned on the committee when we were going over the matter that, on the question of what is inside, there was no answer in the law text. Thus, with the help of good people, we were thrilled that more of the Environment and Transport Committee contributes to a change in the law of No. 41/1979, on the grounds of land cover, belt, economic history, and land cover, that internalisation is a region of the sea at the base, and the ministry's representative was involved when we asked about it, and they realized that this was probably just nowhere because it was so indentated in terms of this area. But as always when we're writing songs, of course, it's not enough. We need to be able to demonstrate in the text of the law exactly what is meant. But I would like to talk here about the opinion of the committee I smaller things, much rather than an insight, though this is interesting too. What changes the proposal for my share of the environment and transport committees are about to be regulations for the enforcation and for the design of ships proposed by tithe and Article 18. The bill to be removed and their work given to the Agency alone. Today these committees represent the class members, which differ according to exactly what the field of activity is and by the rest of the interests. These committees are represented by the fishermen of the Seaside Road, and the pointed member of the Committee is then an associate of a OCD holding the committee's work. The change is in the bill, and the review of the Committee stated that this was very clear. The Ministry's position is supported by the change, so it is intended to improve efficiency and improve harmony and build up a specialisation, and in addition to that, the Grouproom has actually done this anyway so that it may be possible to streamline this process by taking all of this, increasing the people out of it, and just leaving the official to make this decision, provided that it is so that when the interests seem to stay in place and it is usually the odd man from the Group walkroom that cuts off the knot. I understand that thought just very well. However, I do not agree because the results are not just the ones in these committees that matter but the way they come. You see, I think it's important that when it comes to a variation from some principle of which these extras, the committees are about, that they have some kind of conversation about it, and maybe some argument, a little bit of reasoning about it. Although the outcome vote is always the same as the same thing at the Association, it does not necessarily mean that it is possible for the individual to arrive at the right conclusion without having been involved in a conversation between the sailors'interest groups and the interests of the output. This was pointed to in the common review of three associates. I looked it up, Madam President. Yes, the three members of a community, ship managers, members of a motorman and metal technician, Iceland's Swedish association, which strongly opposes this transformation, and then the Federal Union of Iceland. Under that view, these instructors feel that membership is part of a business partner's decision to dissociate from men's rights. For example, that part would be visible. to ensure that professionals with experience discussed the leaveovers, as well as the arrangement ensured this conversation that I mentioned among those who care for the interests of colleagues and professional drivers. It also says that the present arrangement has given way, and I don't know about this efficient argument but when we get into the bright future when people can meet at meetings with short notices and discuss things like that. It was precisely stated that the project had only been a bit tight in recent years, and therefore we add to the 1st reduce of the environment and transport committees to reverse this decision, to keep the Commission and managers inside the 18th Article. and 10th, respectively. The bill, and it's a little important. Would you agree that the only evidence we've heard against this would be that there might be some other interests than a clean, clean, safe way to go? But I don't see that evidence as safety, security, the requirements are exactly the same with these exceptions, whether it's one man or five that make the decisions. So no, we in the memory of the section just don't see that bringing this consultation into the U.S. O.S.R. property is, in fact, improving or strengthening the safety of the marine passengers. It is important, of course, that objective criteria are fundamental to the implementation of applications at one time. Even if it's any person who makes decisions, it's important. Then there are other factors. The review of these three colleagues and in the adjustment of the memory of the environment committee is suggested to respond to one more indication for what is to be checked by a minister, that committees cannot also extend beyond the window and whale inspection of boats, since the Synod has criticized the Association for walking well, perhaps authorized to reduce the number of crews in recent years, and that the best way to solve the problem is simply to let their men fall under the service of committees and other voices come to support the group of travel services, which is called after a clearer surroundings for passengers, and boats in their short tours and hunting. In fact, if I remember correctly, it suggests that there will be some special design in the committees for them. But we here in the smaller section of the Committee suggest that a minister would simply look at this and bring a bill to the beginning of the autumn Summit now 2022, where needed adjustments would be made in order for a panel to be made. 18th par. includes passenger ships and boats on a brief view and fishing trip. This is our opinion, Helga Vala Helgadóttir. Senator, this is April 8th. The time flies, it is two months ago, and then we have received some reactions from seafaring professionals who do not fully acknowledge their response. As for the comments given here on May 3, the general body of Congress received a collective review not only by a member of the management board, a partner of motor managers and metal technicians, an Iceland's Marine Association, a member of the school's school's school's school's school's school's school's school staff, which says, quite a drunken group when we look at people with special expertise in seafarers work and their security, and these mails to us senators, starting with contempt at seaships. It points out that the authors of the letter were just not responding to nearly everyone and that the majority of comments were given to the Commission's discussion, including this as a result. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir highlights that for the exception of the panels, this is for the whole six things the authors believe it is necessary to change in the bill, it should be proper to do it, and what may be a bit reminded of the pullout that the committees are to cover between seafarers' trade unions unions and marine society is the first thing mentioned in this letter as it is the opinion of the authors that the design is made available for fishing ships such as other ships. You see, as noted in the news, there will be some economic incentive for those making larger fishing vessels to reduce their design. It is natural for one that is the safety, safety of those who operate on the ships, and this is shown by a reputable authority to consider more part of the environment and transport committee. The Ministry envisions a study of this in the following months, considering the time of rest being respected in fishing vessels around which the design is concerned. But I wonder, Madam President, if we shouldn't try to control this here at the council because we've got the case in our hands and have a word with these professionals, the Ministry, and just as much as we can say. Therefore, I would like to suggest, Madam President, after a second discussion and a vote, the situation will return to the environment and transportation committee, where we can try to control this. I don't think we're going to understand this case, so all the unions holding hands on sailors' rights in a labour market believe that the General has shown disrespect and ignored comments. Madam President. That's how it goes. What I'd like to say had here lies for our change of plans. paritaprevir Vala Vólvó Helgadóttir, who I'm hoping will have a career, but regardless of those who are asking for the matter to go to a committee between second and third discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u44	Workhall Committee for Committees on bill fixes house warming costs, environmental energy resources. The bill suggests changes in house - to - house spending laws, No. 78/2002. A simpler framework of support systems for environmentally-friendly energy sources and/or improved energy efficiency is proposed for those who heat their houses with electricity, while existing support systems have proved to be complex and unpredictable. The main change is to allow for a single deposit to be allowed in the form of an apartment owner who invests in and connect devices that lead to environmental energy resources and/or improved energy efficiency to house heating. The strength takes into account the cost of buying equipment instead of calculating. Users of themselves on the scheduled save. Looking especially at the heat. It is suggested that funding be made at a maximum of $1 million per year on the relevant property instead of 20 years of age. Now. The committee discussed the matter and came to a meeting of guests and received reviews. This is reported in a committee meeting, followed by the Commission's discussion of the matter. Wants the committee specialized. The Commission discussed electricity primarily designed for building an apartment building in the areas of the country that is considered to be the area. It does not make it possible for the freshing of aquifers. Because of the lack of access, such an option or the practicality of connecting to the heat - control laws will be accepted by the bill. The committee estimates that this is a significant benefit to residents in cold areas. According to the Commission, there is an advantage both for user and for state on environmental energy sources. Indepth for users, such equipment is leading to reduced electricity consumption, with a related decrease in costs. The changes proposed by the bill provide housing owners with increased opportunities for other technical solutions in the heating of their homes and by environmental energy sources. It is open to create an apartment owner's ability to install a system that uses more electronic energy and at the same time reduces the demand for electricity for house warming that can then be used elsewhere within the electrical distribution system, e.g. for energy exchange. This reduces the government's counterproduction due to reduced electricity consumption. The Commission then discussed options for energy in the joint review of the Vest Reconnaissance and West trip, the living room, or the request that the Commission fully discuss whether the approval of the bill could have such an effect. War pumps will be the main source of house - to - house energy at every property or apartment. The committee does not believe that it is the goal of the bill that all owners of an apartment building will be controlled in that direction. Rather, its less consent means that homeowners have more options when it comes to improving the efficiency of house - to - house heating. The Commission noted that Energy Fund was advertised in March 2020 22 support for projects aimed at improving energy efficiency. With such support, telecommunications will make it easier for telecommunications to disappear from electrically introduced telecommunications that use oil during periods of stress to warm water for heat or so - called heat and telecommunications rather than to provide energy. Testicles that use water energy that are not suitable for heating can be effective. The committee also points out good results in the construction and operating of telecommunications, heat, shelters in Western countries, which are used to save electricity from seawaters. The Commission feels that the Commission does not consider that the bill does involve policy-making policies on which solutions to be used when improving energy efficiency. Section 16. legal innuendo of house warming costs is permitted to use up to 5% geological subsidies. The Commission aims to work on further geo-freaking, using funds to do so, and other factors that can replace them are too far too far away from the heat. The Committee also discussed the arrangements for the processing of applications. An energy agency will issue an application to the owner of an apartment building for subsidies by law. For the treatment of the situation. Was it a view of whether to simplify the process so that the Power Agency will carry all the treatments for granting grants, including contributions from a heat pump for building up an apartment building that the tax will provide on the basis of a reimbursement on the basis of tax reimbursement laws. The Commission does not think it is time to suggest such a change now in view of the financial resources that have been determined for the work being implemented by the bill. The committee, however, encourages a minister to adjust the arrangements for making donations for the house - to - house work. For simplicity, you will be examined in the preparation of financial and financial adjustments. First of all, the maximum budget for subsidies will be 1.3 billion. K. without worth tax. Five and a six. The bill suggests that homeowners can apply for subsidies at always a lot of the cost of commercial equipment, resulting in environmental energy sources or improved energy efficiency in building a maximum of $1 million. With a b- team 1st par. The bill is presented with a definition of the equipment to be considered robust. It refers to all the instruments that lead to environmental energy resources and/or improved energy efficiency in the home - to - house heating, including the necessary support for its activity, except for equipment for changes in the heat systems within the door. In addition, the bill's report gives me further explanation on the subject of pledges. Its directives say that subsusceptible equipment falls mainly heat pumps but also, for example, the use of thermal pumps. solar electric mills and heat - control tools, as well as equipment that need to be kept outside the door. The committee considers it an important tool to maximise energy saving. The bill's report shows that energy supply may be reduced to this point, corresponding to the use of up to 50,000 electric cars. The electrical energy released to other uses will become more valuable and will bring up important factors in energy exchange. Thus, in view of an important part of the energy exchange process, the committee feels that there is a strong motivation for apartment owners to take advantage of this way to improved cheeses, energy efficiency during house warming. The Commission points out that the cost of changes in the state's budget can be counted to reduce the need to subsidize electrical energy to house - to - house housing. It must then be remembered that the electricity saved to house warming and that the general market is higher, the higher the value tax. However, that feature of the change was not specifically assessed. The committee discussed a great deal that it was important that the changes proposed by the bill meet the maximum use of electronic equipment to achieve the highest power saving if they are offered higher concentrations of stock making money, they were able to save long-term subsidies for subsidies. Hence, the Committee suggests a change of 6th paragraph. The bill for raising maximum subsidies for up to 1.3 billion. K. To be strong, though. However, let us strengthen our efforts to ensure that, according to wording, our strength will never exceed a certain percentage of the budget to a maximum of 50% of the cost of money and equipment. The Energy Agency will deliver applications for granting grants and shall look for ways to use them to maximise energy efficiency. In the treatment of the case for the Commission it was observed that the known instruments can be specifically heat pumps in several categories, the management security of the earth, the debate is greater than the case of air in water and pumps where operating is less likely to interfere with mortgages, energy efficiency, aquifering, aquifering pump, where the situation and the committee feel strongly that the need for a strong cost, repair and installations of a new earth, such as the following level of water use is required. This may result in further implementation, however, the need to include further guidelines on what is strong. In view of the above, the Committee considers that the Power Institute needs tools to achieve the limitation of energy efficiency by the resources to the subsidies of equipment laid down here by the bill. The committee then suggests, with reference to the tax report and having agreed with the Ministry, that it is made clear that the strength proposed by the bill takes on strong cost without the value of extra tax. Second, a change in authority due to reimbursement of worthwhile taxes is proposed. Since 2014, there have been laws on the value tax laws that allow owners to apply for reimbursement of a value tax due to the purchase of a heating pump to the home. An expediting warrant for reimbursement of tax tax on the purchase of heat pumps is in 11 p.m. 42rd. Act of merit taxation. The bill suggests that changes in the existing and more recent laws to the owners of an apartment building should be allowed to meet the criteria to provide subsidies for buying and any equipment that leads to environmental energy supply and/or improved energy consumption and to the house - to - wall of house heating aimed at being independent of technology. Lip pumps are just one of the ways that can be done. It is possible to add energy efficiency to e.g. ... themoney of an apartment building. The tax report on the matter to the Committee points out that the current remuneration warrant of value taxes covers only the purchase of thermal pumps and is therefore narrower than the strength of the sources proposed in the bill, where other equipment may also be resistant. The committee requested a memo from the Ministry on CDC and suggests a change to 11. 11 mg. 42rd. worth tax deduction songs requiring authorization to reimburse the tax's worth on the conditions met. Instead of only purchaseing heat pumps for house - to - house housing, the warrant also buys instruments for environmental energy generation to house - to - house heating, as defined by the robustness of b-joint 1 equipment. The bill, as well as the first paragraph of Article 6. The bill. For the further definition of the equipment that falls under the reimbursement, please refer to a review in the report with the bill as well as the Ministry's memo. The Commission then proposes that the candidates for reimbursement of the value tax, which has already been funded by Energy Institute, provide confirmation there with tax application, as well as confirmation that there is a robust system in the understanding of the law on housekeeping costs. Third, the Commission suggests a change in income tax laws. Thus, a review of the tax to the Committee pointed out that there was a need for a decision on tax treatment to be made on the basis of the purchase of equipment, dr. Section 6. The bill. The Commission suggests, having agreed with the Ministry, changes in the tax laws in order to underscore this value from income tax, is expected to be all used for subsidies and then the bill achieves its aim. The sponsors who pay will be owned by owners for the purchase of equipment that meets explained. The terms of the law are not considered taxable to pay taxes. Refer to the committee's opinion for detailed discussion of the changes made. According to the above, more than a part of the employment committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes presented in a committee study. Under the heading, you will also write publications, as follows, Haraldur Benediktsson, Berglind 1, Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Sjöfn Sjöfjög Helgadjögnarsson, Héðinsson, Helga Þórðardóttir, and Sverrisdóttir Friðriksson, the Katrín of Sverigris.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the head of the committee, and this is a very good case that I support in my mind, and it is very important to support those who use electricity - fuel facilities because it is expensive and the benefits of the use of heating are very wrong. That's about it. Ten percent of homes, I think, who do not enjoy the quality of life that the thermal reserve involves their great quality of life. But what I wanted to come in here only to ask why. A senator: Is this subsidence cost? And I welcome this change proposal to raise this subsidence from $1 million to $1,300, 000. But I'd like to ask you why. A member of the council to see whether this granting is possible, whether it can be used in or not as a monopolitan form, whether it is used in this process. It's setting up that equipment because it has natural costs and would be desirable if it could be so far possible to make use of any of these strengths to install the equipment in case of an emergency. A senator could only cross it with me. In addition, I am especially glad that we can apply for the strength to or get the strength to use other equipment here rather than thermal pumps. It is a great deal of good and has many opportunities for this and many new things. All of this, however, turns to the same well, reducing the cost of house - to - house heating for those who do not have a heating system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir man of Þórarinsson's son is very grateful for the answer and the question. I'll just agree with the senator. I think it's a very important matter, and it's true that there are still about 10% of the people in this country who don't enjoy heating - up houses in other ways, and therefore I'm celebrating this step that's taking now, to come to meet these people in and make it easier for them to get heat in their homes in a different way than to burn oil. Electricity is about this equipment that you talk about, whether it can be used in part. In the format, the committee considers that it can be done. This is expected to be used in a song system into what was being thought in it simply because the tunes that use it uses are useful to the best of these geologic pumps. They are the most expensive of all because it takes a considerable amount of time to set these soils up and to achieve the most practical results from the project. Then we specifically agreed in the committee's opinion that the cost was expected to be reimbursed in this project. It's been taken just the same with this equipment. It is true that somehow, the equipment that the Power Institute considers the wording is strong because we may not be quite able to do today what equipment will be available after two or three or four.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u47	The custom of a time, huh? paritaprevir Þórarinsson. Mr. President. Thank you. For this answer, and very good for this, it is seen that the strength to install such equipment can be used, as it were, by being able to be considerable. A senator mentioned here, and I thank him for his introductory response. That's what I wanted in the second answer to ask him. A senator, just like this, doesn't know exactly what he knows about it, but if his point is that there's specifically some other kind of equipment here, it's like to swallow a house instead of a heating system. And now, the energy fund has, if I remember correctly, strengthened research and drilling for hot water. I think it is very important that we do not slack off in this regard that even if it is taking an important step here to help people who use electricity, the elderly are the same. It's never a house that has electricity, it's never like it's like a house that's hot with heating. I think that's where everyone agrees, and that's when they swallow electricity. Then you have to save and so many things, and there's a danger that if many people are in your home, etc., it's very important that we don't relax in studying cold areas with the goal that there's warm water in it and we have good examples of its importance, such as ports in the Hornfjord, where we're now storing up the heat - supply society, where there's a huge boom for those who live there, and you may not have believed that it would happen in the next few years. But it has become reality, and I wish that those who live in it would be very happy to have a heating system. So these are my speculations. Hv. A senator may be discouraged from examining the presence of hot water in cold areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u48	Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for this second answer. Me. We talked about this only on the committee's hot water, looking for hot water in cold areas, and it's very clear, like a rough one. A senator came in earlier, that there is an enormous resource, and there is not much good in having hot water in his environment, and I take my mind with him, and I, the committee does too. Of course, we should not or should slow down or look for hot water in the cold field. This bill may not in any way interfere with its purpose, and we who live in areas where hot water in the earth and we have managed to take advantage of it so only in smaller parts of the town of Skavetir, where we have reached a heating system of over 90 homes in urban areas and rural areas. You can see what good things are involved in such a project, and only if you can see how the settlements are moving around what is called the hot water. So I'm totally agreeing with what. Senator on this. We must not slack off in searching for hot water, and that is not the goal of this bill in any way but just to meet its inhabitants and it is theirs. Today's facilities will solve the situation, as will solve the situation of the people today. But I hope there's some hot place where the solution is going to come, so it's just so that it's totally clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u49	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Stefán the son of Stefánsson's Vagn for his history and transport of this case here where I'm going to look at the bill, and I've joined the 1st discussion of this bill, and when you look at the paper with the bill, you see it with the thermal pump. Other energy - sparing equipment would be considered by the Energy Agency to be anywhere else, 110 gwst. for use in ways other than 110 gwst. Matches the electricity use of 50,000 electric cars. This one, that 110,110 gwst... They would move, they will be sold elsewhere, and then they will be transferred to a tax worth of 11% to a value tax for electronic heating in terms of other electricity use of 24%, resulting in a further increase in the state's income. Another factor that will lead to this is that this use of the equipment which is already environmentally dependent to improve energy efficiency that it reduces the long-term government spending to subsidies so that the state is not only saving money and growing income and as is shown in the bill on its impact, it is expected that the difference of long-term spending will be funded by an increase of 50 cents. The annual budget of the 15, energy issues. Today, the amount is about half the cost, and up to a maximum of one million is, in fact, an adjustment made by the Committee that makes up 1.3 million. Wouldn't have been right. This saves the state and increases the government's income to increase the cost rate from half the cost to 75%, and it can also be considered at the state's energy exchange policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. Ármannsson For the answer to these questions is true and true what the senator enters in honor, that the state is saving itself, that it reduces, and that there is also a considerable amount of electricity that goes on to another tax step, and that the government's income increases against it. Question question. As for this remuneration, the ratio, the amount, or whether it should not have been higher, it is especially true that we discussed it considerably on the committee, and this was the conclusion of the committee and as a matter of course. A senator can understand that he was the whole committee on this bill so that it could not be understood any other than that it was quite acceptable with this landing that this bill ended in and including this number. Of course, you might ask yourself, " Should I have been higher or should I have been right? ' People can have opinions about it, and I'm not going to tell myself anything about it here. But this is down to everyone's position, and I think it's very acceptable, and I think it was the wise thing to move it from this million to that 1300,000. I think it's a big difference, and I think this bill, just so it's said once again, will change the quality of life for people in cool areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In terms of half the cost, the report on the bill, by permission of the President, follows: In terms of the Ministry, concentrations for 50% of the cost of equipment should be sufficient to stimulate them. Quote concludes: The Ministry assessment of 50% of the cost of equipment seems to be food that leads to enough stimulating, so that people start buying thermal pumps, people, spending expenses to buy heat pumps. It does not seem to base anything on the scale of the government's savings as well as on the increase in expenses. Had something for a second evaluation, some of the Ministry's calculations on how much sales would be saved, reaching 10 110 gwst. in the second cycle of tax use, 11% tax rate to 24% tax level and the long term spending would be reduced. I think it's very important, especially in the statement of the Treaty and this government to speed up energy change and the green economy and how we're going to be better at energy exchange on a global scale, that there are residents in cold areas to contribute to the cost of saving and here's a little bit of money for the State, and we're coming both from areas where they're very cold areas. To say, it's important and I can't see that even the government can profit from this in the long run when you will, of course, do what people go to both environmentally, energy, and energy efficiency can do more. I think the profit should go to the consumers instead of to the state. But it would be very nice to hear what you think. A senator about the Ministry's calculations, if any.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u52	And it is my understanding on the Committee that this bill is put together in such a way, and the result is that people will be increasingly able to buy thermal pumps, both because of this system around them they would have been made simpler by this. That was a big deal, too. You don't have to estimate this benefit, estimate your income as required by the savings, and then possibly get a refund if it wasn't enough, but is simply simplifying this system much more that way, and the pay ratio is in it, and so is it, as if I came down here into the river into response to that. Councilmen, Birgir son of Þórarinsson, for the fact that this is now done outside the door, are also saying that they are effective. But I think this bill is the best and very good and will help in these cold areas. Will be an incentive and will motivate its inhabitants to take this road and switch it into this, replace energy sources, and go into these heat solutions that are or whatever they are, the equipment they think and want to go on, which are listed there some, so it's clearly part of changing energy. Are we taking a good enough step? I hear the Honourable senator likes to take a step bigger than that. I totally understand that. But this is the conclusion of the committee, and I especially welcome it, as I said earlier, that the committee was all of this opinion, so that this great and great and merely say something more important to the inhabitants of the country in cold areas. It matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Stefán the son of Vagn's Stefánsson for his career on this important bill. It is, of course, that we are living in a lot of time when energy and how we build houses and other things and we are many of us old enough will, of course, remember when everywhere in the countryside and elsewhere there was no heat supply available, even though the hot water was near and here is the most important strength to talk about the strength that helps people get out of their power now or even oil to warm up their houses, allowing them to use technology such as heat pumps and I just know that in many parts of the world, where there are just cold areas, thermal pumps are much used to reduce the need for energy that is not environmentally friendly and that is important that we are using this technology at home too. Although we have this great hot water very close to us. There are many areas where it is not, and it is natural, too, in the scattered countryside that there may not always be cheap to put heat plants all the way out into each valley. I only know that in my unit up here in the dress, that's where. It took a little bit of money to get hot water in, and it will take longer for many people to start taking advantage of it. But I also wanted to thank the committee because I was immediately away when this bill was started on the Committee to thank the committee for taking account of many of the comments that came at the beginning here at the beginning of this discussion. I was a real hard worker to say. The environmental minister in the discussion that I would send these ideas to the Environment and Transport Committee that when I was on my way there, it was only directed to that committee itself. But there is one thing that maybe I would have personally wanted to see change somewhat to the point where we're dealing with a contract until 15 years of age. The reason I'm saying: It's just the evolution that's going to have over the next five to ten years, it's going to be pretty big, and I would've wanted to see that number go, for at least ten years. But I just want to hope that if there's any great technology, much better, the lip pumps are at or something that makes it more useful to use the thermal pumps, we'll find a way to help people cross it. But it would be very good that the bill is no longer just for thermal pumps but for new technologies, so if new technology comes out next year and people want to take advantage of it, it's good. But I just wanted to thank the Committee for a good job in this, and I know there's a lot of people around the country who'll be happy when this is approved by the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u54	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator admitted that it would be difficult to put heating into some towns in some urban areas, etc. and it has a lot of costs and other factors, and it may well be looked to as if technology has changed considerably, and now it is only in the past few years. Bring in some equipment where you can plow down these tunes, and even history through cheerleaders, and then these pipes are made up of pliers. The fine company puts on Selphoss, which produces just the heating systems that are in isolation and plastic, and it's on a big cylinder, and it's so involved in the ground, so it's all getting much easier than it was a few years ago when it was already ironed up and it was boiling together and so on. So there is a considerable opportunity. That's exactly what I wanted to ask you. A senator to find out what he thought, e.g. the concept that this host business, which, in most cases, has the exclusive right to spread hot water in the areas where they are selling hot water, would even be obliged to set certain routes when it wasn't when it might have been left out a few miles. I know an example of how a company didn't want to go any further, although it was up to 30 40 users on any five, six miles that business didn't want to go any further. Of course, it is economically practical for both natural consumers and such government funds to become some kind of pressure on these companies to go further on the law. Maybe I wanted to get a second opinion. A senator on this point because he came into this with the possibility of making an expensive contribution to building as a house and some settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I've come to realize that it's getting much easier to reason with these arguments, but the cost is still high. There is also another complex level, such as. power on the water and even if the temperature on the water remains, deliver, e.g. in the selection where I know that the water being pumped up there is not necessarily that it is enough for everyone to go to the whole end of the country. But as to whether or not to do something there, no, the companies are doing just this last few miles, as is often called in the telecommunications, and we have been discussing it, such as in the past few years, how to do about e.g. The fixation of fiber optics and other items to scattered places. There have been a set catalyst, sometimes strengthened, set up what may not be as effective as going all the way, and I feel nothing wrong in thinking it too for thermal operators, as if for a fiber - optic cable. All of these are the Cyrillic structures we should think about, whether there are ways to make some incentives to get exactly the last areas to connect. I think the conference and the professional committee are just coming and looking at these ideas if anyone came with good eyes and see if they can't be done that because, like a boy, you can't do that. A senator points out that heating is far different from electricity or other technology.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u56	Þórarinsson. Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the U.S.R. and taking his heart up to heat is a great quality of life, and we Iceland are going to be lucky to have so much hot water and all the great opportunities for tourism and all the things we know about it, but most of all, the quality of life just for the inhabitants of our country, that all this warm water in our land. But not everyone who enjoys their quality of life, as we have seen, and this bill is designed to meet them and is very active. I'm very pleased with this bill as far as it goes. But I'm also interested in increasing the heating system and looking for hot water that we continue to do so because there have been a lot of changes in these activities as well, and now it is. buildings, especially houses wet with floors, warm them up with lower temperatures than flat - burning ones, so we might need a few miles of work. It is an example in this country that they need several miles of hot water to serve that area or those living in it will be considered either to come against these companies in some way that they're going into this process because when it comes to them, these hosts are profiting from getting subsidies and perhaps seeing more benefit in selling the electricity for house warming than when they're standing up. I know that thing from south. Since I live there, the heat supply ends in the middle of the nail, and there's about that. 30 users who don't have a heating system and it was decided not to go any further with the legislation, and now it has become much of a private business and is benefiting from selling electricity rather than building heat plants. So these are things that we need to examine, too, because all policies to the same extent, are enjoyed by the inhabitants of this country in the hot water we own.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u57	What did they say? A respectable president. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. A senator that there's a lot to do with this, and I think one of the things we've truly seen, for example. is that we are now often using water of deeper water, which has been done before, and this is a very interesting innovation because we can start using hot water, which is deeper down than we have been using so far. Then we're not just opening up opportunities to use it here in the country but, for example, a lot of territory. In Europe, where humans have noted that geothermal temperatures can be used at a rate that is much deeper than in general. The temperature is now and there are things that might get very interesting about getting rid of the oil and the gas, the heat, now the heat that warms up much of Europe, so that perhaps if we continue to strengthen our research and innovation in this field, we could solve Europe's energy problem after some year, not with spherical cables, as some might talk about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u58	Yeah, a respectable president, huh? Birgir The Þórarinsson digital, a bit different the crime, but it was evidently the same line that set us on both the expensive heating projects and how we could meet them and have been in rural management for 12 years and in a region where we've spent a lot of money and a lot of energy trying to spread hot water around our territory, I know just how much this can be done and expensive and often difficult in times and that's just the reason. I wanted to come up here a little bit, and this only set me on fire. We're just at that place right now. We may be talking about two towns, three towns somewhere where only the numbers are so it's not. Doing so is not justified. Yet as pathetic as it is, I wonder exactly: This debate has been made, and I just wanted to bring it here that the communities that are in this heat - repair operation, and that are taking pride in heating up their towns, that I don't think it's likely that when this bill becomes a law, which we sure hope it will be, because it's a good thing as far as it gets. The rural communities themselves will bring contributions to these populations in order to cover this gap between them, and the rural communities are laying down heat grids to their citizens today. So it is not unnatural for humans to come. And when these solutions are on the table and you can see that the use of the funds and subsidies of the items for this process cannot be carried out on thermal irrigation projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the good thing to do when talking about thermals sets men on fire. But I agree that we should think in solutions and thermal pumps can be solutions for this one, two towns that are not reaching, e.g. or you don't answer the cost of leaving. However, we also need to think a little bit about the need for lip pumps too much. Now we've developed progress towards developments in such things as wind and a number of such problems with a lot of energy is that it's not a bus. Fortunately, there isn't always wind everywhere, although there is now a place in Iceland that we would like to say is always closed. But it must also start thinking about how you will store, e.g. electricity to warm up at night without the sun or things like that, and then you're thinking of tyres, and all this technology is developing very much. I think if we're open to thinking in solutions, of course, the heat source is great where it is and where it can be arranged in a way that makes the cost okay. But we don't just focus on her. That's exactly what's good about this bill is that it's opening up, not just in the cold fields, but maybe on these end of dollars and other expensive things, and it's hard to put heat on, that we can think of other solutions. I think it's important that we both attach ourselves to it and be ready to take it and examine it at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I just agree completely on this, and it's very important that we don't think of one solution because, as mentioned in the discussions of the Committee, we have no idea what solutions will come after a few years. Then we must not be locked up in some legal code for some one type, some government system. That's why this line, somehow, is the equipment that energy, the agency accepts as sponsors, it's the key factor, and so I completely agree that we should look for more than just standing by. I'm also just rephrasing it here that I was a little bit concerned about this between the answers. You're right. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson came in earlier, that we must not slack off on ice and heating, the search for hot water, and, of course, we should put power in trying to find ways, and it's always becoming. Technology is always increasing in that we do not need as much hot water out of the earth to make these heat plants. The technology is just on the move, so we shouldn't say place the dot here. It's just one way out of a lot of people we can use, and I'm glad that we're here with this, and I just reiterate what I said before, I think it's my belief that by this rate, many rural communities will take this ball and drive with it to solve certain problems that have been lived on, they'll be on the welfare of their communities. I'm here to celebrate this bill, and I think we're on our way with research like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the second answer, and I think we're deeply agreeing, and it's clear that we can't just stop looking for hot water and we can't stop developing the way we drilled after hot water. We cannot risk developing the way we make up the hot water pipes. I'm wearing everything. These are all the things that need to continue developing, need to continue to be developed, and we need to continue using it, and when it comes to the innovation in this field, we need to strengthen research and other research in this field because we forget about one technology or something else. First, we start by leaving it behind, not being able to make the most of our energy exchanges.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u62	Mr. President. I would like to thank you for this fine discussion that has been around this fine case that is presented here for a change in the law on subsidies on the cost of house warming in cold areas. This is a matter that is of little importance to those who do not have heating, and this is a simple development system and a change in energy efficiency in those houses where it is taken up and beyond all the lower costs. Yeah, I got pretty good answers from what. paritaprevir Stefán the son of Vagn's Stefánsson was a source of strength. It's a pleasure to hear it. It will also help set up the equipment. It's very important. I welcome that, and more than that, I rejoice to see this adjustment made here by the Committee to raise this funding to 1.3 million. It's all about now. But there may be one thing that may not have been in this discussion, so it can happen after some end or some use, perhaps some years, that these pumps could break down and other such things and even have to invest in another, it is not strengthened. - No, no, no, Is this for thought because I know an example of such a malfunction in equipment that had to be made in expensive repairs because of what was then not stable? But this is it. This is a good step and an important, and I'm really happy about it, so I am, and besides it, it's natural to think that it depends on the costs of equipment purchases, similar to the calculations of the users of my own planned savings. This simples the whole system that's very good, and I also celebrate what was presented in the matter of the day. paritaprevir Stefánsson's Vagn, and when I asked him if there was any chance that we would slack off when it came to earth - searching. It's looking for hot water in cool areas, and it's not, and it's very important that it happens because it's very important to me that we don't slack off looking for hot water in cool areas. Hot water has been found in cold areas where people were not expecting it to be found, and technology has given way to these chemicals, which are very important, as I traced here, and I know that it was just for hot water in cold areas where no one was expecting to find water and that it felt like I said, living with a hot water system, and we've talked about it here in this conversation. They know best what they may have lived where the heat is and then moved to cold areas. They will know best about the enormous quality of life in the heat - management industry. But I'm also glad that we're opening up for other instruments, windmills, and solar batteries. It's all positive and good. But maybe I just want to come on to the point that it's so important in my mind that they map something unexpected and maybe there's something unexpected, I don't know where there's an area where it could be put a heating system, there's extensions and other things where there's no heating room and I know it personally where I live. I used to light electricity, and there's only 800 m in the hot water layers where I live and it hasn't made it. It has not been granted or is, at least, the company that handles them. It has not wanted to further legalize. It is natural that it is most frustrating to know this especially on a cold winter day to know that there is only a very short time in the thermal law, but you can't get hot water. But this is a reality that some people have to live with, which is why I have. I've been interested in whether it wasn't normal for these companies to sit down with these companies. The government would do so to see if such songs could not be continued. Now there is a natural supply, it is also there for those who are drilling for hot water, but that is not enough to put heating into their homes, the facilities they are not there. But all of this is important, and we know what is in the cold areas where you swallow your house, not in the same way as those who have thermals. It's simply that it's colder this way on cold winter days for those who swallow electricity than those who have thermals, and that's why there's a lot to work and this way. Here is a positive and positive way to improve the living conditions of those living in cold areas and living conditions. And I found it very interesting to hear from you. paritaprevir Stefán the son of Vagn's Stefánsson mentioned that the number of people wanting to live where the hot water is stored is increasing. Then, like now more people who want to live in the area, there are a lot of positive housing conditions, and that is what we should look at when we are wondering if we should go to further drills and look for hot water. But at last, Mr. President, I welcome this bill, as I said before, and this is a good step as far as it goes now. What I would like to mention in this is that it's a positive thing that this strength is the exception of a income tax tax, which is assumed that all of the money, which is used to subsidize so that the bill achieves its goal, and that, of course, is very important in all of this. But eventually, it's my message here that we must not slack off. Of course, when it comes to heating, the goal should always be to reduce the number of people who have to burn their houses with electricity. This is, as has been shown here about 10% of the nation, 10% of the country's dwelling conditions, and it is a lot to try to reduce them, and to bring these people hot water in the form of heating, national practical, and it improves the living conditions of those living in these areas and dwelling conditions, so that in some cases the bill is a good and positive step, and hopefully we will see that those living in cold areas use this offer that it is, of course, very practical to be able to reduce house warming costs in some cases as much as half by installing the pumps. Two o'clock. Senators on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, Þórarinsson's son welcomes this discussion with a great amateur on heating and a huge settlement. So I'm glad we can take this discussion only at the Hall of Congress. But what I just wanted to come in here, very short in view of what happened. A senator told us earlier about the problems and other things had to do with this equipment. But you're right, it's natural on it, as other equipment may be damaged or broken, and then it's not stable again. In fact, it's only addressed in this matter, and it's what I wanted to address here in my answer that the contracts were 20 years old and are now 15. That was the idea of the committee's twofold, one way to address these speculations in the coming years, as well as the fact that as we've come in here before in this discussion, we may not know exactly what technology will guide us, so if it's more practical, much more efficient, and even less basic, than the equipment we have today, we are not. Then we're reducing the contract time, is there about five years, so after 15 years, people have the chance to renew their time now, they're going to do something more novel and work better than they do. Today, the counter-respect responds to honor.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this good input and a good way to show that this period is being reduced, what should say the life span of the scholarship, if it can be said, that if instruments fail after 15 years, you can apply again to this level to renew it. I think that's what we're talking about. Senator, I think that's what. paritaprevir This was specifically mentioned by the Ármannsson of Eyjólfur, that it might be better to shorten it for ten years, of course, but it is positive. But this was a better conclusion than 20 years, and it's a good thing because I, as I said before in my speech, I know an example of this equipment being broken, and it can always happen now because once the person is put up with these devices, thermal pumps and so on, it doesn't have the right to subsidies for electricity, swallowing, and the cost of fuel is the strength of a single currency, as it happens in the bill, uses to buy equipment and sit there. This, however, involves a lot of savings, and the household's energy costs can decrease by up to half. That's what's natural because in many cases people are paying up to $50,000. and more than that, to burn houses in cold areas each month, an enormous cost. But I feel the same way. A senator and we are very intertwined in that subject, very interested in the general heat - building process. That is why I have emphasized it in memory of a talk here that we must not relax in the matter of looking for hot water in cold areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u65	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. He was talking about earth - searching, and I agree with the tremendous importance of a cold area if there were to be aquifers, and it was just searching for some things and the quality of life that we had from the earth's heat. I mean, after living abroad with a standard of living in Iceland, it would be a lot less if we didn't have the earth, I know it just lived abroad. What warm - up expenses are enormously high, such as those in the North countries in Reykjavík, where we live on aquifers, swimming pools everywhere, and warm up houses is relatively cheap. It will be fascinating to know how much this will improve our standard of living, and it will make aquifers of cold areas of utmost importance. 16th degree. legal on the cost of house warming is stated, by permission of the president: A minister is permitted to determine a special geography, a campaign to determine a specific earth - temperature search. The campaign in cold areas allows up to 5% of the annual budget to cover house heating costs and new heat reserves. Requests for strength should be sent to the Ministry along with a report for planned geological search. Quotation complete. Here's where we're looking for aquifer search... in the subsidies law... probably to save the subsidies... as we're now doing with the thermal pumps. Counts 'em out. Is it not true that this 5% for the year-to-year budget for subsidies on house warming costs, that it would actually be possible to change so the law, and here, where a minister would be permitted to decide a special effort in the geothermals, radicals, cold areas, get more percentages, and most certainly because of the energy exchanges, and everything about the green economy and the climate change in the Treaty? It is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u66	Þórarinsson. Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an interesting answer, and I agree with that. This is a very good point, and I think there's an absolute need to increase this rate, and actually 5% is a low percentage. It's economically practical to go this way, and I just encourage it. Councilmen to bring the bill of this material, and I will, of course, be his associate on it because it is very important and I find it interesting to hear at the mouth. A senator I know has lived abroad, including In Norway and what, where most of them were introduced by electricity, and then they have their rabbits to put the Viðar shops in winter to improve the heat in their homes that he knows very well what it's like to live in cold areas. I know it's something that's unique here with us Icelanders and we're very lucky, as I said in my speech, having all those hot water, swimming pools all over, like whatnot. A senator mentioned, and just the quality of living by a heating station, so we should put more in my judgment to look for hot water in cold areas because this is an example of water being found in cold areas for which people thought it was not water. That's very positive, and that's why we're supposed to be very supportive of this heating system, research, and I support my brain to increase this rate. I'll agree with that with what's happened. A senator thanking him for a very good indication in these matters. He says soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u67	Codian son of a Þorvaldsson. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very good answer, as well as the challenge. I think it's very important that there's an increase in global interest funding, and when you start thinking about it from this bill, which is here for improved energy efficiency and energy exchanges, and I think that, in view of the government of the administration contract, you'll also start thinking about green energy exchanges, etc. of the cold areas of the cold areas, should benefit from the funds to go to climate change and the green economy. It would be a great deal to improve the standard of living in the land and to equal the conditions for living. This ground temperature there is a means of improving habitat conditions, especially just standard of living and reducing the expenses of these cold areas to the home. Yeah, you're right. I've lived in Norway and I know a fever. It had to be said to light up the house there, and there was once an apartment so cold that we saw in the living room and shared the cake in the bedroom, and you haven't turned on the ovens during the day away at work. It comes home to a cold apartment, lights up the oven frames of sleep, and then the power bill starts to light up the standard of living, which is completely priceless, and I can take an example of the cost of swimming in Norway and knock it down at $350. Norwegian in one place. That's 4,700 bucks. one ticket to swimming. Another location costs 250 bucks. That's 3400 kr. We can pay. What's the matter? Cutting options may be 500 k. or 400 bucks, but I take the challenge very well, and I hope that with the members of the council here in the hall, I may be able to join for a bill that will be granted an increase in the interest of global warming, and I'd like to ask the senator at last if he considers half of the cost is sufficient and that's 1.3 million. Why not go up to 75% on the expense of thermal pumps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u68	Þórðarson. Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his pleasure and a good answer and a pleasure to hear how he runs the cost in Norway. In heating houses, this is a high cost and a and the quality of life associated with the heating system. You can even see it better when you hear this description that it may be just swallowing one room look at how expensive it is to swallow the whole house, and I know it myself. I worked abroad for a while, living in an apartment that was pretty cold in the winter. In summer, however, it was very hot, and there it is foreign among the people who live there. It's usually warm just one room where everyone stays through the cold winter months, maybe two months, two or three months, that it's so expensive to fan the whole apartment. This is very common, and it may be just a small threat, even having blankets and other items and having such a pleasant evening with your family. But this tells us just once again how fortunate we are to have all those hot waters. However, regarding whether this supply should be higher, of course, it would be most desirable for us to be more supportive of those living in cold areas to buy heat pumps to reduce their house - to - house expenses. But this is a good first step, and we'll see how this experience will work out, and maybe after a few years, we'll just reevaluate it to see if and how it's going to have such a bang, this good bill and is, as I say, an important step in the right direction, and hopefully we'll find every frequency in these cold areas that's making use of that strength, and then we can all rejoice over it, say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u69	A respectable president. I believe that the bill to correct a change in house - to - house subsidies is a very important step for energy exchange and energy efficiency. This bill is submitted by the Environment and Energy Minister and the Climate Minister and I believe that as I discussed in the first discussion, I believe this is also an important step to balance the agricultural conditions in the country if it succeeds in providing the residents of the cold areas to purchase thermal pumps or devices that improve energy efficiency and lead to the environmental energy of the tablet. There are certain factors in this bill that I would like to discuss specifically, and then it is about the importance of house - to - house heating costs for the country's whole country, and we find in Reykjavík where the hot water is not expensive, and what is the difference when it comes to terms with the domestic expenses, we are saying, "I have put much more of the household spending in the country than here in the city and in areas where the ground is hot with water. " I discussed earlier that this is also abroad what the electric bill is high, where what we are lucky, Icelanders, living on the ground, and how important it is that we make real effort to do it, to search for real earth's heat, where possible heating to live in the midst of a lot of life's concerns and would increase quality of life. Regarding the bill and the subsidies, the bill says that funding should be equal to half the cost of commercial equipment, resulting in young to environmental energy resources and/or improved energy efficiency at house warming up to a maximum of $1 million. Quotation complete. This amount has been raised to 1.3 billion by a professional committee. K. And according to information I've been given, a pump costs and a pump pump can be pumped by 2.6 million. K. it says in comments to the bill at 6. that, according to the Energy Agency study, the cost of such a device is generally not more than 2 billion. K. But I think I have a correct figure for 2.6 million, and I got it from a Chairman or three million. Yes, $2.2.6 million accused the head of the employment committee and the executive of this case so that I am no better than that this increase to 1.3 million 1.3 is to make sure that the cost is actually up to half, because if we have half the cost and only one million, we are not going to reach half the cost. It would always be to the roof, one million. It's such a sort of correction actually on the bill what comes from the cost to reach half. This is always the cost, as we have seen in the discussion, to buy it, and also to install the equipment that is very important. What this leads to and is that I find the point of this great matter important to the region and to a cold region. It is that this will save if this is going to happen, as shown in the bill, and, in fact, also mention the job authorities' committee's committee's committee's face on the subject, that this will save 110, 10 gwst. the electricity needed for other uses. How much is 110 gwst? ? Yes, that's the equivalent of 50,000 electronics, 50,000 electric cars. It's a lot less to save from these. Then it goes: Will be the sales of the electricity that would be a day for house warming from 15% of the value tax level to 24% worth tax when they sell to other electricity use, so that the government's income will increase with this amount of money at 110 gwst. I haven't calculated how much is. The bill does not show how much cost or how much money the state will earn. There's one thing. Government profits are increasing. The second factor is that using such equipment, which is mainly heat pumps, reduces the State's spending demand for long - term subsidies. How much I don't have on my own, but it's going to show how many people are going to take advantage of it. That's the big question. How many people will take advantage of this if we say 2.6 million? I'm not saying that if we just give it to ourselves and that's half the cost paid. That means he has to be paid $1.3 million by his flatmate. K. the self-important expenses, a $1.3 million bill. The cost is high for people living in the country and in cold areas. That's an enormous number, really. I don't have an average distribution of people in the country, but these are several month's conventions in the districts. It's a lot of expenses, and I'm not sure that apartment owners will be able to handle the work immediately, provide 1.3 million to save their house - to - house expenses. It is too expensive to be poor, and this is and know an average very rich territory. So I have a new proposal for this bill, which means that it will not be replaced by half the cost will be much less than three fourths of the cost or 75%, and a maximum of 1.5 million, so we will leave 1.3 million to 1.5 million. K. without worth tax. This would mean that an individual or owner, homeowners, and family making this cost of 2.6 million, would have to pay only 650,000. Instead of 1.3 million. I think this is going to buy the heat pump and will lead to a lot more or almost everyone's going to take advantage of this option, which will lead to savings of energy forecasting, energy-sparing equipment, will lead to the release of up to 110 kwst. as shown in the bill. This would then be an incentive that is clearly an incentive for the apartment buyers and overcrowded financial expenditures, and I would point out that it's the Ministry's assessment, as the bill shows. It says, with the permission of the president: In terms of the Ministry, concentrations for 50% of the cost of equipment should be sufficiently stimulating. The bill concludes with no comment that it is spoken of or evaluated by the amount of money saved by the state. The amount of money saved by the subsidies is missing, as is the increase in income. I think it would be very easy to calculate that in terms of or 100 if we were to aim at 110 gwst. who receive a different price level of 24%. So I also think myself, and also with reference to the government's will, which is shown in the Government Treaty to change energy, to emphasize energy exchange, to green economy, and, in particular, to be the world's best climate. Geirsson is of that legal group, like any other group in Iceland. Then I think if there's any place to be the best at being in the world, it's quite clear that they're going to be looking at apartment owners in the country, ordinary people who have an apartment building and in cold areas that are using other energy sources as well oil as they would lead to environmentally-friendly energy sources and higher energy efficiency, so that they are spending their expenses, which the government is planning to go in the next few years. Then these are small coins that would lead to the growth of the proposal. Then I'd also like to point out that in the bill, the difference of spending is expected to be funded for a short period of 50 million. K. Annual budgets for the 15th energy sector from 223 to the rest of the budget of the 17 topic area intended for energy exchange. Since the period of legalization of the bill does not have any financial impact on the state's funds, it seems that the state is going to promote energy exchange and environmental energy resources without actually laying down any money, laying down any shapes that really matter. It is, however, to make at least 1.3 million for each heating pump. I think that's a lot of money. These are coins of small value for the state of the entirety of the budget and roll of the state fund. This would be of utmost importance to the cold areas, so I have this adjustment and return the case to the committee, considering that she will consider this and even ask for the calculations of the Ministry on how much save expenses and how much money will come into the state's budget using these expenditures in terms of government action. I know this was discussed in a certain way on the Committee, but I'm a member of a territory I'm afraid I don't have a place on a business committee and I'm on a budget and a General and Education Committee. But as a member of a region that is highly dependent, I have cold areas within the country and in my own district to make a great deal of difference for the districts and the rest of the country, and this is also so that I come to equal my residence conditions. That's basic. There must be a real effort to settle the country's housing conditions. For good reason, people move to Reykjavík, and we live in the capital area. It's just living conditions are better here, and there's a lot to it about the rules and how society is set up on law frames and stuff like that, and that if you talk about transportation, parenting, house warming costs, and so on. There is a reason why people are moving from the region to the capital area. It is simply a better standard of living and better living conditions. Another thing I'd like to come to and talk to you earlier, that about the pursuit of hot water, and we discussed earlier in the matter, in the contrary, that it is a desire even to increase 5 percent of the requirements of 16. building the house - to - house subsidies that work on the earth will be a pleasant project in the future, and I think this discussion has been very helpful and very educational, and I thank you for it. I don't want this to go further, but I want to propose this adjustment and refer the case to a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u70	Where we talk at anyway. A senator? A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech, and there's only a few points I'd like to come in on. Just so it's perfectly clear, because of what. So a senator came in earlier that it was the strength before the installation, so be advised that it is clear to everyone, and here he says that and the cost that is strong. So, according to this suggestion, except for any project into the building itself regarding the open system and song systems, we are not up-to-date, so we're talking about, of course, a lot more cost to the individual than just buying those heat pumps. Another thing I wanted to come on because of it. A senator here spoke of living conditions and equal housing conditions and people will be able to move to Reykjavík because they don't get hot water or the cost is too high if we buy backup pumps and I've been righted now, the difference is, events, 200, 250 bucks between the proposals and the changes. Senator. I just wondered who, what the difference between the prices in cold areas or in the capital is he considerably more than this amount, so I think we need to bear in mind, too, that I'm willing to doubt that people may be saving out of this $250,000. But I don't know. But I also want to point to the last nine seconds that I have that it is very important in this discussion that people realize that the cost of heating for people is also considerably high. People are paying a considerable amount of money for taking the heating system. If we're about to subsidize this much, then the question is, Is there an imbalance?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u71	-Answer. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I view it this way as I watch this bill, which is a change in the laws on house - to - house subsidies, environmental energy resources, which strengthens to buy equipment that leads to environmental energy sources, improved energy efficiency. At a maximum of 1.3 million today, the Commission has a new proposal. I think that's where they're urging us to buy some equipment. We're watching it. It's just what's under this case. Of course, there may also be a way to live with a lot of discussion, as well as the costs of heating, that is probably what we do. But since we have this case under which I believe that half the cost is not sufficient, there should be three fourths, and also 1.5 million would be able to reason with regard to other solutions, and it also shows that it can affect only going if all go heat pumps. It's okay, I think so. Does that not mean we're not supposed to go to aquifers or expand here, increasing the heating system in the country? Not at all. I think we're both supposed to do both, this is just this unique thing that is clearly for energy saving and we're supposed to try what we're supposed to say, roll it out of as many homes in the country, most houses as possible, and it would lead to energy saving, save money, save money, and save money, and also increase income. That doesn't mean we're supposed to, but don't continue helping society in the country with heat and earth - searching, not at all. I think it's just a question of that, too. In terms of domestic conditions, it's only the work of rural society, including the work of the State. I think the state should come in strong enough to settle conditions, conditions in this country. It's just my conviction, and I think it's reasonable that the definition of an equation, a place to live. What exactly does that mean? Are we just going to have a real job in this regard? It's just one piece of a much bigger mex.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u72	-An answer a second time. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Me and I think I am and what. A senator is fundamentally in agreement with each team except perhaps one or two. We're getting very close there. With an equation in the country, he doesn't need anything. Was he not questioning my position on that matter? We're on that team together. I think that's exactly what this bill we're talking about here about. There's a step in that direction. We clearly have it that I know what I'm doing. A senator, to take steps, working conditions in the country with this, and I think we should celebrate this with us and look into the earth heat we've been discussing here quite a bit today and just enjoy it. Then we fully agree that what I was simply pointing out is that most people who have a choice, at least where I know, prefer the geologic pumps, the thermal pumps. It's just the experience I have in this sector. The cost of a house can run at very large numbers up to a million plus minus, so there is no hold on taking heat food, but at the cost of money. So that's a big challenge to me. A senator if a respectable president, if this amount of money mentioned here, is to be turned away from this idea of taking heat pumps, which I think it is quite an enormously important and will be a major step toward an equation of land conditions. Hv. 6th. Witchest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. To make it clear, I have no doubt in any way about a battle. A senator for the equation, a resident of the country, who also comes out of my good district and is the 1st member of that district, so I support it with my whole mind on all matters that lead to an equalisation of dwelling conditions. What I'm suggesting is that when I look at the bill, I see that the legislation of the bill has no financial impact on the state funds. It's the government. Why don't we put no money into this, which can be said to be important, and the 50 million each year, according to the cost range on topic 15, energy, and the rest, the provision of funds at topic level 17, the environmental issues intended for energy exchange? I just want to take bigger steps with regard to strength, take from half to 75% and to a maximum of 1.5 million. That's my will, and I believe it would greatly increase the purchase and lead to anyone who wants them to have the ability to buy thermal pumps. It is true that, without a doubt, we are correct in making good use of thermal pumps, making an overview of thermal pumps. However, this does not change our growth to 75% that it will lead to a loss of soil. I'm not. It's just taken a step. Wants the strength stronger, put more money in this which leads to 75% and half million and I believe that this is really what the country's built up, and this cold area belongs to a state fund, especially in a government that is going to generate environmental energy, energy and green energy and start taking on real energy. It's not a big deal, it's a little business for a government fund, it's to do that, and I'm celebrating this bill with my mind, and I think it's really improving in every way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u74	President that we rejoice, of course, that the law of the staff responsible for the user - controlled period is finally being established but makes comments that they are leaving the present arrangement without adequate moisture. So it's my predecessor and others at Pirata's party and why we're yellowing this other good case, that there is no need for this needed support to provide us with an arrangement that has a great deal of pleasure among employees.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u75	Mr. President. I am so happy that the permanent destiny of the user - controlled personal assistance is being established. This is of utmost importance, not just for disabled people in the community, but for all of us that this service is possible, and we need to continue to develop the form in order to improve the quality of life for people who need help but at the same time ensure a good working environment because here the interests of disabled people are entirely shared and that workers have good work conditions. I'm glad we're legalizing this now to reevaluate regulations and we're supposed to learn from experience and make this system even better. But this is a tremendous cause for rejoicing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u76	Mr. President. Not often I miss Jón Gunnarsson's son. But where is he going? I'm just gonna thank him. Thank you for bringing this bill into the council and so finishing a tour that started here four years ago. For example, a request was asked to show that a license from the law of marriage was actually used here in the country. The country that has been able to say good things all over the world to combat child - bonding marriages allowed them to stay in their home and, in fact, offer a bill two years ago, but it did not end. But honey, Christmas, finish, thank you for finally.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u77	A respectable president. It's fine. It doesn't have to be bad to put control of a hospital. Actually, I don't think that would solve the health problem. I think it's a misbehaviour that lndependence somehow needs to figure out. But I'm sorry that a body of Congress has not trusted to have the voice of those who use the ministry at the table somehow does not show much courage or that modern thought that it does not want to hear the voice of those who need to use the ministry. I think both health care providers and especially the staff would do well to hear only another point of view, and that's why we'll be doing yellow on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u78	A respectable president. Here we are voting on an important matter that I support because it is suggested that a national hospital administration, a government designed to strengthen the management of the hospital as the largest health care agency in the country, and to ensure further professional management of the hospital, is not only a new recommendation that it is being ordered but it is recommended that, for the first time, seven personnel of whom are intended to be appointed by patients to appoint representatives, and therefore seven men have the opportunity to consult with the head and health management of the health care centres when it is appropriate to provide counselling and to ensure effective consultation with effective consultations to ensure that the perspectives of users will be given to the decision and health care providers. A health - care committee is then directed to the Ministry of Health to observe and implement a Regulation so that this user council is subject to the highest possible cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u79	V.E.G. President. We are accepting very important changes in health care laws, the management of a university hospital's National Hospital, to support the professional and financial activities of the hospital, and most important of all, I appreciate that with this change in support of hospital staff in their vital daily activities and service to the country. This is a very important change, and I would like to thank the Honorable Health Committee just a very good job on this matter and believe that the Committee improved the bill by means of its coverage, especially with the changes proposed here. I want to emphasize it here too. It is recently said that seven people are being hired here. The effective consultation that will take place with the hospital's administration is that it is very important, and I emphasize it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u80	A respectable president. I believe this is a big and important step for the hospital to receive a professional government that has a professional and financial management of the hospital, of course, positive steps. It is interesting, though, to listen to a user council when it was faced with users'ability to get their voice in the hospital administration, where it is best heard, since it had the highest significance of user councils, of course, will not change the fact that a body of Congress has now issued suggestions for that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u81	A respectable president. We are here in the third discussion on this matter of socialization. The matter was called in to the Honorable Health Committee between the 2nd and 3rd debate for indications, including from me and others, that it would not be that GRECO's answer to corruption and other orders in this court remains to be called from the Supreme Court without advertising, judges will be held by the Council of Social Affairs without advertisements, and though the minister of a ship at the end of this I do not think that it was a mistake to ensure independence and the rationality of the court whose case will go up to the Supreme Court at the end, and therefore I will sit at this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u82	Advantages. A respectable president. I will be sitting by in this vote because I do not have strong conviction that the greater part has fully met the criticism that has been heard and that it translates a court case like this so that we can be in no doubt as to what is being done. This criticism has been expressed from GRECO as a matter of course. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir mentioned, but in the case there was also a clear review from the Department of Law, which has not been called at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u83	A respectable president. After the second discussion, the committee called the matter in. I went over today, calling for the Ministry's explanation and thinking that these explanations include a good diagnosis, some evidence of what we're doing, and why, and that's why I'm going to vote for this bill. I have strong conviction that we are meeting the workforce. We've got to face the business out there. We're meeting the voices we need to take into account, and that's why I'm going to choose with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u84	To talk about votes. Mr. President. We're here to provide a very extensive series of laws on the crew of ships. There is a shadow over the matter because the trade unions of the very seams lie against the very things involved in this bill. I have requested that the case be passed to a committee between two and three discussions in the hope that an environmental and transport committee will cover these views so that the people involved in this law are happy, can disqualify themselves, confident that a solution will be found. Then Piratar and I will be sitting by to take care of the case now, except that we will, of course, support a new arrangement that I and I make. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir proposed, which is the very thing involved in meeting some of these concerns. I hope this change will be achieved and then more. When the committee gets it back. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u85	Even if it takes some votes. A respectable president. Yeah, I think I can't help but agree. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son that they lack hearing a little bit about those who ship ships on a crew. There are, of course, people who are concerned, and it's a bit cool to avoid the anxieties of voices just because they have sent us to a respectable environmental and transportation committee but to the entire U.S. Congress calling for them to be listened. So I'm glad it's going back into the committee. I think we need to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u86	Daughter, yes, most dignified president, this is a big matter, and the interests that are very high. In view of the fact that the matter is being called back to the committee and I'm sitting in this committee, and I've heard the call that other senators are calling here in the hall, I'm also going to sit by this vote and see what the end of the story will be after the committee's further work for a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u87	A respectable president. It is not true that they would not have responded to this call. I'm the head of the case meeting with these people who have been in charge of this letter, and I've been to a meeting at the Ministry, and then it's the main criticism that this is the crew of 24 ms of fishing vessels, and after reviewing the case, it's clear that in the design of a fishing vessel this is a member of a sailor's law, it's not going to be presented to these laws and it's been introduced both inside the Environment and Transport Committee and as well as in my speech with the opinion of the committee that within them, the Ministry was going to take note and agree with the stakes, and this may be a change that will lead to a change in the seawater laws, but these changes that they still call these changes that are not relevant for the primary review.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u88	A respectable president. This adjustment is about that in this bill, which is very important for the country's settlements will be cost of house warming. The bill says that the state should be up to half of the cost or the equivalent of one million. The adjustment suggests that there will be three fourths of the cost and up to one and a half million. Why? Yes, by this action the State is not only saving its money but also increasing its income. What's it like to save money? Yes, it is because subsidies of the state's subsidies are reduced by these energy - sparing measures, including those energy - sparing measures involving 110 gwst. would be released in another use as a response equal to 50,000 electric cars, the electricity use of 50,000 electric cars. This use of electricity would range from 11% of the value tax to 24% of GDP, additional income of state funds, and if the government is going to mean something with energy exchange and green energy, it's time for it to put the money in place for energy exchange.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u89	A respectable president. The issue we are discussing here today turns to the bill for changing the package travel laws and co-ordinated travel options, No. 95/2018, extension of credit time. The bill suggests extending loans that travel responsibilities funds have provided for tourism to reimburse consumers due to offloads or logbooks due to ordinary or uncontrollable circumstances that were created at the beginning of a crown. Traveling loans were given up to six years of age, but the bill suggested that the loan time be extended to up to ten years. Accountable funds were set up by law No. 78/2020, for example, the change in package travel laws and interconnected travel options, no. 95/2018, to cope temporarily with the negative effects of a pandemic crown on the integrity of a organisation or a small sale of a package trip and a synthetic travel plan and to ensure consumer interests. There were widespread limitations at this time in most European countries and North America and in many flights. It was impossible, therefore, to implement a number of packages on a schedule in cases where a packing is canceled or decommissioned due to unusual or uncontrolled circumstances on consumers, right to full reimbursement within 14 days. However, since the reported failure of the trip or the relief efforts of a travel agency at that time, many of them found it difficult to repay the consumers and prevent the number, and to prevent the number of noncombatant travel agencies, travel funds were set up by law no. 78/2002. The sea gave travel agencies loans to repay tourists because of a drop-off or out of the stock market. In total, 54 loans were given at a total of over 3.2 billion dollars. and the travel of responsible funds is under the custody of a travel agency that monitored that the loan height was used only for the purposes required by the law. The loans would repay the travel of the responsible fund, along with interest up to six years, for four each year. The first payoff would be March 1, 2021. By Regulation No. 56/2021 and a change in Regulation No. 78/2020 was the first due due due due to a first wage or administration to December 1, two 21, and with Regulation No. 1038/2021, of the change in Regulation 78 2020, was the first remuneration from December 1 to 2022. The reasons why the first pay period has been delayed on two occasions are that the negative effects of the outbreak of road service virus have been maintained longer than expected to support the use of tourism services and to help improve the ability of tourism. Here on land. Therefore, it is necessary to allow them to extend their loan time and thus reimburse money over a longer period of time than expected in the ocean. A respectable president. It was noted that travel agencies need more space to repay the loans they borrowed, but at the decision of the six - year limit of the law 78. 2020, that it seemed that a crown being an epidemic would not have the long - term consequences. Thus, the demand for travel has become slower than expectations, and the situation of uncertainty was longer. It was also the review of a travel agency. It is noted that the increase in circulation, the payments are a big interest in borrowing, but the largest part of it has used its first pay extension. The length of loan time and the reversal of the tourism service will no doubt increase the payment rate of long loaners as both tourism organisations and the travel agency urged that the bill be approved. As shown in the bill's report, the first paydays have lent the travel of responsible funds twice as the negative effects of the epidemic's crown virus on tourism have been maintained longer than expected, and the first pay date on December 1, 2020, where long loan time will not change along with the delay of paydays, as well as the lower incidence of travel services, is seen to show that the paying rate of creditors will be very high during the first paid period of unchanged. In handling the matter of the committee, one of the goals of law No. 78/2020 has been helping travel agencies in the difficult environment of the pandemic. In view of all of the above, it is necessary for the committee to be extended to the loans of the traveling responsibilities fund and to suggest that the bill be agreed as unchanged and under this opinion the writer here writes, Rafn Rapðan Ólafsson, Guðmundsdóttir Sverisdurdurdur, Bjarningdemundsdóttir, Ingi Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdótsdótsdir, Katrín Friðriksson, Tómasson, Pétursson Tómas, and Haraldur Benediktsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u90	A respectable president. This is an important case, and it can be said that this has shorter initials and that it is merely changing credit time to Article 1. The law. But it is important that we be extended to this borrowed period, as indicated by a well - respected manager, Stefán Stefánsson. Then, when we thought that Kuwait was only lived in a few months, it took a little longer than that, and so it is not only important for the government that the companies, the tourism companies, can pay it back by not having just as much money each time and being able to pay longer because this is also important for consumers because if they cannot pay back, e.g. on her first pay days, though possible, that tourist office might go under, and if she went broke, then it is. Of course, it's bad for consumers, and so I think this is a very important bill that we'll be supporting through the rest of our therapy. That is so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u91	A professional professional executive would address the question. 3.m. That's the north side. "Berkel Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. A respectable president. I recommend a job road committee for the Committee of Committees with a change to the bill to correct a change in fish control law. Laws here run up the stairs, but for the sake of fishing on a small one, a tuna gave it to a tuna, and it shows which guests and envelopes we got on this case. In particular, the Commission discussed that with the bill it is suggested to provide the owners of fishing ships with more than six months of temporary access to emanacle for tuna fish by a foreign ship, but under Icelandic law it is only possible to grant permission to fish for commercial purposes to ships registered in Iceland and fishing and to be one of the Icelandic parties. The Commission has justified making this exception, but it allows special crews and specialized ships needed for tuna fish, but such fishing is difficult and in nature different from those commonly practiced in Iceland. By doing so, the Europeans can explore the practicality of the fish and develop national expertise in the fish industry. In the opinion of the Commission, Iceland is important to maintain its hunting experience and share in the Atlantic tuna fishing programme, but the lack of new sources can be expected to reach Iceland's fishing grounds by other Member States. The bill expects markets to be distributed on the basis of a fishing law in Iceland's Fishland weekend, to be granted permission. A foreign ship will be granted under the law on the fishing and processing of foreign ships in Iceland's fishing weekend. However, a minister is authorized to plan fishing from strains that are not controlled by a division of total resources between individual systems, such as fish control laws. If this is to be agreed with the bill, both regulations of the Regulation must be updated and corrected in line with the practice of commercial fishing. The Committee asked the Fishing Room to investigate whether it would be appropriate to add temporary additions to the EU's fishing laws beyond the jurisdiction of Iceland. The Committee investigated this, and after consultation with the Ministry, the Committee does not feel the need for such a change, including the need for a change. and the evidence that the law's ordinances are not relevant to the distribution of the warrants. President. The committee suggests a few changes to the bill. For the sake of harmony, the Committee suggests that the source the bill provides is also 1st. Section 4. a law on the management of fishing, which guarantees that a general fishing permit is needed for commercial fishing in Iceland. Then the commission suggests a change, so it is clear that the source that will be granted on their basis for their fishing is also taking place on board ships. Finally, the Commission suggests that the period of temporary clearance will be extended about one year in view of the fact that something is past this year and it is unlikely that foreign ships will be able to be rented to fish this year. It is important to make sure that the temporary sources suggested by the bill are an exception to the principle that fishing with Icelandic sources is done by Icelandic ships and crews; for by law, only the Icelandic ships, as previously said, are allowed to fish for commercial purposes in the fishing weekend. According to the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I have made here. Under the committee's opinion of literature, as well as the above, p. The men of the assembly, Vagn the son of Stefánsson, Sjöfn Sjön, the daughter of Helgadóttir, Ósk, the daughter of Sveriris, Bergethdordd, the daughter of Guðmundsdóttir, Hanna Katrín the Friðriksson of Frirdur, Haraldur the Benediktsson of Bengoreth, Helga the Þórðardóttir of Thordur, and Aheth the Helgi of Héðinsson. A respectable president. All I want to do is tell you that this has been a lot of talk about blue tuna and he's having a good taste. So I've tried and others tried, so it'll be very interesting to watch, and hopefully this will lead to the appearance of an Icelandic developer who can see his advantage in catching this valuable fish, which may not have been a presupposed premise. But a respectable president, I'll close up my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u92	A respectable president. I just want to come over for a moment and celebrate this bill that is now about blue tuna fish. I think it's really important that we use the institutions here that are useful, renting Icelanders and blues. One of them is a court order. It's an enormous value of fish, and if we succeed in the future, I think it's a great opportunity for us to make good use of this source of money for an Icelandic company that they want to try on this project. It has if we've tried. This was tried a few years ago, and if I remember history, I would hunt that blue tuna from Grindavík. It did not work quite well, and the reason for this was simply that it is a highly specialized fishing project that is turning toward both the ships and just like the sailors on board is that this bill is just dealing with it authorized fishing here, to hire both crews and special ships to provide us with fishing experience on these blue tuna fish. So me and the ideologies are going on that Iceland will be on board and getting knowledge and experience, how we're handling this product out at sea, so I just want to come up here and describe my great pleasure with this bill. I thank the Committee for just a very good discussion. It was quite deep in chapters, and it was just exemplary and enjoyable for the committee to be on this bill, and I think people realize that it's a great opportunity, an Icelandic fishing field if it works well, so I'll agree only with the judge of the case. We'll be watching the pro board excitedly for this experiment, and hopefully it's great that we'll be here with the Icelandic blue, some tuna at a restaurant all over the country before we know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u93	District, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, yeah. Madam President. I hereby recommend to the greater part of the employment network for the Committee of Committees, with a change in bill to correct a change in fish control laws, sandmelon fishing management, and invertebrate. The bill means that a minister will be authorized to assign a labor share to fish the local farms of invertebrate crops so that a special supply section will replace each hunting area with one of its share for the whole country. It is suggested that sea oedema should be controlled with a catch of resources and that the sandmeal share will be more specific. It is noted in a committee study that the committee was contacted and that reviews were received. Following the Commission's discussion of the matter. A greater proportion of the employment committees agree with the opinions presented to the Committee that it is necessary to consider whether or not to combine certain fishing sites with regard to sea fishing sites and to consider that it is important to examine the need to eliminate compartments but to keep areas in other respects unchanged. The greater part is that once we gain experience in changing fishing management, special attention will be given to the need for further adjustments in the law. The reviews to the Committee stated that a comparable basis could provide the basis for the sharing of urchins from here to in sea oedema, taking a greater portion under that view. A greater share is also noted that by means of this approved bill, it has been registered for sharing of local strains of invertebrates. This will allow preparation to be started to become a sea urchin for the next fishing year. The committee received a number of narratives that called for sharing on a gray patch and considers that the majority of them inevitably aim for the more efficient fishing management of the horses. At the same time, a greater part is directed to a minister to stress the fact that a vast deal of reconciliation is being gained through their fishing arrangements. There are areas and measures to keep up with compression. In addition, the majority feel that the more part needs to be considered that the race is not to be practiced until a new arrangement is established. These are mainly technical changes that I'm not going to make specifically aware of, but I can also, and I would like to address them here, because this is the opinion of the less part under the same category, that I can agree that it is important to promote marine research and roll up, including why the population has been reduced, as it were, despite limited fishing. Well, that's the way it is, maybe in all of this. Of course, there are many things we do not know about it that are happening in the ocean, and it is now merely that the self - determination rights, the sea animals, are moving between stations, as we have been seeing in very many places about a species of fish in the sea moving around. It is as follows here, there has been a share of sand charcoal, but not on all national centres, and it is on the very account of it here in the opinion of the smaller section, and it actually appeared in the report with the bill of the last Council that says, with the permission of the President: In a regulation on the management of commercial fishing industry in 1997-1998, there was a target for sandwashing that went south with a set line against the direction of the Habits found in the Habitnes South and east of the Eysthorn, based on the expansion of fishing grounds in the sub-line, which was insignificant to the north. In view of the fact that little was known about the fishing potential in the north, it was decided that except for that area, the purpose was not the least to prevent an attack. A marine research agency has suggested that a special catch point from the Snæfells, south of Stockholm, will be laid down and all sandy waters will be below the market. For a long time, the Agency offered only a catch in the above - mentioned areas where direct fishing of sandmocks was not practiced outside, but since 2016 the advice for Iceland has been valid. During the past five fishing years, the remainder of the catch zone has been in the range of 113/45% of the total agreement, while the average of the last three fishing years is around 26%. This certainly is not part of sharing. On its own, the task of providing advice will be solved, but the underlying goal is to promote better efficiency and sustainableity and not to be hurt more than the advice given. Well, maybe about that, so I'm going to address here, which is in the opinion of my share, maybe now that's exactly what this has been all about, how it's been done. In other words, this target system is walking to the skin, and we have to somehow try to control this fishing. Although there is a disagreement about the large fishing system, we are responsible for our trying to be good at this, and partly controlling this is not wise if a part of the areas is not there too. But, Mr President, maybe I'm just going to do this and listen carefully to my part's representative, but I was going to say one natural thing. It's under the opinion of literature, as well as what it says here. The members of the council, Stefán the son of Stefánsson, Bergeth, the daughter of Guðmundsdóttir, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, Sverrisdóttir, the daughter of Sveri, and the daughter of Þórarinn Ingi, the son of Pétursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u94	Madam President. I'd like to start by thanking a well-respected layman, Gunnarsdóttir, for her story on the Committee of the Greater part, and I'd like to thank you for a good job in the Committee, although we do not agree on the matter that this was done in a very good way within the Committee. However, the opinion I was going to consider here is the opinion that a smaller part of the employment committee is signing. The lesser part stands together. The members of the council who stand and why. paritaprevir The Dagbjört of Gunnar the son of Lúðvíksson and Helga Þórðardóttir, who were inside who were men at the time of this dispute, as was the case. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, a member of the Committee, agrees with this opinion, just so you know where it comes from. But I'd like to go over something considered. Thus, in all changes in fish - control laws, it is important to keep the basic theme in mind that the marine resource should be viewed as a common and lasting property of the nation of Iceland as defined by it. In the fish - control law there is a limit to this nation's rights, where source sources are distributed in a way that gives long-term ownership of the nation's common resources and authority for their provision. Nevertheless, the present system is what the Icelandic people enjoy, and it is important to make sure that all laws are based on the reality of the present legal environment. The bill suggests that the provision of a fund share to be distributed to fish the crops of a vertebrate, preferably sea oedemas, but also Christmas runs as well as the proposed collection of sandmates will be defined as being more specific. This is the case with the greeting of a new group. It is vertebrate fragments and, on the other hand, recalculation of a share of sandwashes according to the rules detailed in two new provisional regulations at 2 gr. The bill. The minority notes that it supports the development of more technical aspects of the committee but does not address the larger issues, says one that will be tore up below. The matter was previously for the treatment of the 151th legislature but was not resolved. At the 152th legislation hearing, arrangements were issued for the sharing of a gray pass. The expectation that such eating could be carried out creates incentives for racing, where fishermen are striving to achieve hunting experience that will become a basis for the cooling process. This is most unfortunate, not only for sailors but also for the crops itself. The memory of the item highlights the need to consider reducing the level of debate as a minister has a divided sentence in preparation but to move on to a sandwash. The bill on the same subject, as previously said, was presented to the Council of 150 and 151. In a paper with the bill, the Administrative Research Agency's suggestion that the sandcrates of the fishing season would not exceed 319 tons and that only a specific catch zone from the South to Stockholm would be put down, and all sandcrates would be below a catchmark, while the Marine Research Institute has for a long time provided a catchmark in the earlier area. During the past five fishing years, the Agency began to consult for Iceland. Before the bill was submitted to a 151 C.E. legislator Council, the product was removed from the target area in the range of 113/445%. In view of the need to recalculate a business share in sandmates, which includes the whole fishing weekend, a more targeted control of sandy charcoal fishing was in line with the advice of the Marine Research Centre. There was a provision made to determine how the labor department should be set so that fishing experience between those who had already shared in the catch zone and those who had practiced free sandcarbons, according to the ratio of 75 25. Since the beginning of a Meritional Institute for Achievement in sandwaters, the recommended level of fishing has declined dramatically. Since the counseling of the Institute of Marine Research began more fishing in 1997,1998, the market has set out from 7,000 tons to 319 tons. Such depression must be a source of anxiety and an emphasis on the importance of the Agency's future interest as a guide for both the growth of marine research on the population of Icelanders and all the decision-making of markets. The Agency's data show that fishing has hardly ever exceeded the Agency's counseling in recent decades, and it is hard to see that salutation will solve the problem. The objective of such a greeting can be doubted when there is no part in a larger plan. The minority feels that further research needs to be made on the reasons for the intense contract that has been said and that, in fact, it would have been done to prevent changes in the fishing management of the root. It was noted in the Committee that according to information provided by the Marine Research Institute, the largest proportion of the country's farmed pieces of sand were provided with a drafted amount that was caught in other fishing instruments, and it was noted that there was no necessity in hunting as those who caught alone and one sandwash forbid a net, a line, or a handhold. The smaller section is anxious about the shrinking of sand charcoal and agrees with the view that such limitations may have a counterargulated effect. The minority points out that if all types of fish are placed under the fishing system unchanged, it may affect a relapse; the amount of sand charcoal is unusual. A basic factor in fishing management is that there is a scientific control of what is permitted for fishing and how harvest share is distributed. It's essential to protect crops from Icelanders, to promote sustainable fishing, and to protect the work of fishermen. We expand the peddle system, such as the one proposed by sea oedema greeting, raises questions about the foundation of the system on which it is built. It is unmistakably true that the present fishing system, where branch offices are distributed on the basis of hunting experience and what the expansive sector is authorized, has led to a lack of control over the marine resources, the marine resources of the country. Few people have great authority in the Icelandic fishing industry and enjoy the limited rights provided by financial institutions, which are not more limited than that they can, in any way, pass on certain aspects of the use of it in the future. The practical use of resources has become a form of the personality of this king, the family of the Icelandic fishing system. Bringing more crops under this same system will ultimately lead to the same compression as seen in other crops on the process of assigning a share of resources on the basis of fishing experience. It can be said that it is the prize of the pioneer service in the local article and of those who have worked hard to develop new methods for fishing and using new crops. It is a positive catalyst that is important in any emerging environment. On the other hand, a new article, while creating a very undesirable incentive for hunting fish on unattracted species, may have to be a challenge. This can lead to competitive fishing in the leading legalisations in which the fishing experience is being developed in order to increase the financial share. This enthusiast is the cognition of this imperfect system that we live in, where temporary fishing experience actually creates a permanent supply and the value of the labor department reflects the share. If not lasting, it would be the driving force for competition, not as decisive. What is most serious, though, to the current growth system is undoubtedly that it involves a gift for what is, in fact, a permanent account of the combined resource of the nation that has been highly valuable financial resources without any remuneration. The annual fishing costs per year for the use of some of the crops are paid, but no fee is collected for the original legislative distribution that violates the fundamental concept that national resources and sea waters are the common share of the nation's fishing management of the invertebrates. Marine research agencies provide advice on the local use of vertebral fractures in several areas. Advice on sea urchin is provided for three areas and for the sea oedema of eight areas. They provide advice for bait, king in two areas, control of seawater. In particular, the report of the Marine Research Agency for the use of marine institutions and counselling from 2021 says, with the permission of a president: An ocean research agency cannot assess the status of the source and the fishing burden with regard to the maximum targets of the maximum yield of a so-called MS son and a precautionary approach to the so-called p a in which the thresholds have not been defined. Unfounded actions, boundaries, and a better knowledge of biology will be concluded. Seawater is more than doubtful to produce an overall and premature right to future fishing programs. An overview of how fishing is controlled in other seas, including water, is needed. Information about how large - scale fishing instruments are used in the fishing industry. It is surprising that a minister who teaches himself about the environment does not view them exactly. This is to the extent that eco-friendly fishing instruments are believed to be at the time of the proposed policy guide for the use of the common resources of the nation. It is important to protect the growing area of fish, to travel forest, and coral of animals, which may be affected by seawater fishing. My rights are part of the importance of studying the Marine Research Institute and expressing their opinion on the impact of marine fishing. The aim of the legislation on the control of fish is to promote the protection and practical use of fish, thus ensuring stable employment and inhabited by the country. According to my share, the bill goes contrary to the law's objective of the protection of fish stocks, public interests, and settlements and is more focused on extending the present fish control over a fishing system that has become increasingly critical of the common people for years. The code system is man - made, not corrosive, in all reviews, adjustments, or expansions. In that case, the concerned person will be afraid to ask himself if the system serves the nation's total interest. If not, politicians must have the courage and courage to make the needed changes in the system. The minority feels that the present fishing system does not serve the nation's overall interest and that it has increased in Icelandic society, and it was very interesting that this time a few weeks ago, more specifically by the end of May, that just came to the top, see the highest level. A food minister now named it and discussed in an interview that there is a profound disagreement within the nation on how the fishing clearances and how this system worked all together, and about ten companies holding 67% of the assigned salaries on the profit of a common resource, the partnership not divided in a just way. Is the reason people experience this injustice and the greatest. A food minister, with the permission of a president, said: "I was talking about the system we have. In time, these pieces will be frozen, even in the chapters of government aims, to provide a good environment for people who earn their livelihoods from the use of resources of land and sea, and shortly after that, it was known that they did just the highest standard. Sea exit, top. A food minister named to review the nature of the fishing system here. So in the smaller parts, we find that at the same time, we are about to examine the system from all sides of the world, the fact that there are others in this committee at the highest level. Food ministers rather than council members that as all these experts are reviewing these issues, we are expanding the existing system. But as I mentioned earlier, we have a small percentage of the committee's respect for this opinion, and our hope is that it had some effect on the members of the council of this room. But that's where I've finished it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u95	It gives an answer to a what. 3.m. That's the north side. "Berkel Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Yeah. Madam President. I just want to do this, although I'd rather not be stretching the conversation like this, considering that there may be some good things here, but I'll just have to throw it up and ask why. A senator of hunting experience as the basis for the arts of this section that because we've been talking about the recent business, and this with a competitive hunt, and so forth, because it says, and I'm also going to say that I don't like the idea that we belong to one of the people. I think we should talk gently and never agree that this is our property. That's my opinion, anyway. What I wanted to ask you. Because it says here in this chapter that it needs or should be paid for this in the beginning and emphasis on this, as it were, that the nation's common resource, financial value, should be paid for, without charge. It's about them as I understand it here regarding the original quota distribution now that I'd like to think only of it: how do you see it? A senator sees that such remuneration for the initial distribution of it truly is, as we know, paid resource expenditures and so on and so on, so that if he had something on the rhythms about how to arrange such a payment, he would be paid.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u96	It should be such a payment. That'll answer the question. Thirteenth. We're out of here. "Gísli Ólafsson. Madam President. I want to thank you. There are many ways to achieve this original distribution. But I'd like to point it out. A senator owns another legal bill that is available here, and he was actually supposed to come to the desk earlier today. Communicating bill, there's a conflict that is a specific resource named frequency. In particular, the bill discusses the distribution of the times, and it has been used in different ways. In fact, I know the telecommunication sector much better than the marine route. has been used to provide an invitation for his frequency at the outset and the highest bidder gets the frequencies, but still they do with the rules so that they don't get the same party, all the frequencies. But that is, for example. what is suggested in the communication bill and we can totally view this and other models, similar models, both here and abroad, about how we are assigning limited resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u97	Give a second answer. 3.m. That's the north side. "Berkel Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. Yes, Madam President. Maybe that's what I want to talk about because we hear that in recent years, it's very expensive to leave, it's expensive for young people or older people, or who are going off for a new job, they're buying a boat, and even they have to rent their goodbyes if they don't have some distribution, and you wonder if there's something they can't think about, at least that no matter how much those who are going to do such projects are willing to pay so that they just don't go wrong because we know it's often this way, at least at baseline, especially for little boatmen. What I don't approve of, maybe as much as I do. A senator was trying to compare, although I know that this was just a quote from what he knows. It's that thing with the highest bidder. You see, I don't agree to place our resources on the market so that those who have money will be able to offer it, and I don't think there would be a check for a much more compression than there is ever in this article today. But, surely, I'm not worried that the U.S. Senate will see here from the highest. Food minister changing the fishing system. But I think it's this. How important is the senator that those who are beginning to practice this simply have the means to do this? That's why I think this thing is going to be over the rest of the years about getting to use this, but not maybe it's gonna have to pay in the first place, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u98	We're gonna go for a second. Thirteenth. We're out of Suðvest. "Gísli Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator later answered, and I completely agree that it is not enough to have a system where only the highest bidders get such distribution. I just wanted to quote here on the radio, the bill, because these matters are handled, and they say in 13. g., with President's permission: The remote rates within the Icelandic domain are resources controlled by the Icelandic government. The distribution of the times includes temporary authorization for conditional use that does not result in direct possession rights or permanent uses and provisional rights. In 12 mg. Then, with the permission of the president: The distribution of the court's terms shall be based on objective, competitively competitively promoting without discrimination, and moderate such rights should normally be confined to the neutrality of technology and services unless objective conditions are against them. They're making a point that yes, it's an invitation, it's the property of the people, but there are rules that exactly deal with things like recruitment, handle things like forbidding everything to fall on one party, etc. There is a rule around it. It's only being done in the regulations here on telecommunications. It may be too easy to change. But it's very interesting to see that it is still talking about a resource belonging to the nation we're dealing with as far as we're handling the ocean around us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u99	Hv. 3.m. That's the north side. "Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, yes. Madam President, I still have to start by saying that here it is 1st par. Like the one read earlier about the communication system, we have a regular work to do around the fishing system. But, Madam President, I recommend here on behalf of a greater part of the employment committee in the opinion of 350 of the commercial development of marine farming. This bill suggests changes in fish control laws and fishing fees involved in the pursuit of commercial sea vegetation. It is suggested that procedures involving the activities of the Marine Research Agency are directed toward the research of marine vegetation and that the implementation of a sector for employment purposes will be permissible in a Fish Lab based on a strategy and the Fish Lab will provide permission for the use of panels for every beat of time or up to five years, and it is also suggested to remove other forms no longer applicable to consultations and visitors and reports that can be found in a committee meeting. The report shows that the greater part emphasizes that there will be a clear recommendation for the monitoring of the Regulation and that this will also be carried out on conditions that will lead to invalidation of plans and approval. It is also emphasized that monitoring will include evaluation of invasive uses, which should be in full agreement with the environment. In support of this, the greater part believes that the most successful plans for increased income are to be implemented and referred to as a review of both the Natural Institute and the Marine Research Agency. More than a part of the employment committee suggests changes in the bill. First, a change is proposed regarding the use of marine plants. Is this done where research, research in coastal areas, biodiversity, spawning stations, and air support are important, as well as research on bird life when paving. Second, there is a change in the pressures of hunting fees. It was noted to the Commission that the main argument of dropping clone hunting charges was that the braces were cut within the net, so they were subject to private property rights. The majority agree with these views, but it shows that this does not apply only to the seaside, making it a suggestion to continue taking fishing fees, to go outside Internet layers. It is also important to keep the licenses attached to the beat devices or barges that are practical permission and allow them to be permanently unsolved. Thus, according to agreement to a resident or landowner, a person holding permission or permission at a Fish Lab for such fishing needs to have signed a contract with his landowners for letting him go. It is also so that the permit is dependent on the permit that the permit holder or user will make a valid schedule for the intake of the iPad, and it needs to apply at least For five years at a time. It shall specify which tools will be useful at the discount, the size to be struck, and the number to which areas will rest after a return visit. But I think that this is being handled in a way that involves life and nature, and as it also says here, they are going to try to account for the impact of environmental applications in terms of the beats of instruments and beats that will become practical. We therefore suggest that Merit Research Institute agree with Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature, give a review of the innovation process, and that is why we did not agree to hide this alone Marine Research Institute, but we wanted to keep nature, Iceland's establishment, as districts emphasized. It is also important to believe that Ministers are needed to prevent any local over-use of any particular species, as well as a general fishing permit depending on a special license to fish Iceland's fishing grounds. Third, we do or make adjustments to the majority of the employment committees involved in the collection of the bill. The enchantment of the law on the use of marine vegetation continues to be removed at the end of 223 C.E., but the bill suggests that these regulations be removed. As soon as the existing bill is passed as a law in the greater part that we believe that it is right to allow the economics to respond to the change of rules and therefore suggest that the law will not be valid until January 1, 1923 but at the minimum of 5 years' time, the license workers should meet the requirements of the new innovation programmes and other requirements for the Regulation and as I told them to allow for up to five years. A respectable president. According to this above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be approved by the changes I have made here and by the printed page, as well as by what is being said here. The members of the council, Vagn the son of Stefánsson, Berglind, Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, Hanna Katrín Friðrk's Friðriksson, Benediktsson Bengort, Helga Þórðardóttir, Ahlin the Helgi of Héðinsson, and Sverrisdóttir Sveris, the daughter of Sveri.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u100	Madam President. I thank a respected layman for his history and the good points it shows, but I've chosen to be in a smaller part of this case, so I have a commission that contains a paradox and I'm going to use this opportunity to point out why I went through the original section when we were discussing the last bill. But I'm going to have it here again before the end of legal explanations and other than any change in the fish - control law, it is important to have the principle that the sea resource is common and eternal property of the nation when it comes to determining whether new species should be tormented. Therefore, the question must always be asked if the present system serves the nation's overall interest in the economy as defined. In the fish - control law, there is a limit to this right of the nation in which sources are distributed so that they would receive few sources, long-term holdings, and provisional rights over the common resources of the nation. It is the opinion of the part that it would be more correct to initiate an overall review of the agricultural system with the objective of ensuring a fair and just share in these combined resources of the nation and the smaller parts of it, therefore, does not feel that it is right to permanently in place of a hosting there, in particular, to be in charge of the highest value. The food secretary has already announced her plans for this overall review, but the smaller part makes specific comments to the bill as it is today and we start with what is related to nature's protection. In 1st. The bill is suggested to verses 3 and 4. 2.g. Law on Fishing Control, No. 116/2006, let go. This change is suggested to eliminate the law that marine growth is in accordance with nature protection laws and British protection laws as appropriate. That's 2. suggest to the 3rd to 6 mgr. Section 3. The law will fail as the role of the National Institute of Marine Research, Iceland's Natural Science Agency, monitoring and the use of marine energy. These changes, along with Article 3. The bill as 2nd submerged. Section 15. b of the obligation to seek the comments of the National Institute of Natural Sciences for Iceland may be designed to reduce the impact of natural protection in the use of marine plants, as authorities have noted. There is no convincing evidence that there is an unconvincing of this rule on the basis of any other reason but that the bill is referred to as a simple rule and that the management board is bound by environmental principles. In my opinion, these Eastern countries are inadequate to support such important interests as nature and environment protection. The majority of the item may bring up some adjustment proposals that are going on a little bit during the first adjustment process and that, of course, is good and we don't think it will go far enough. The smaller section also feels that there is an important role in carbon binding and that a far greater degree of the impact of the legislation on climate change would have been to be considered. The result of the bill's direct disarmament of marine energy use from nature protection laws and full monitoring from the Institute of Natural Nature to Marine Research, seems to indicate that the government's purpose to ignore nature protection and climate standards for decision making on the use and development of marine plants. The comments of Iceland's Natural History Institute in consultation with the bill are discussed in any way, but it appears that their comments at the preparatory stage of the case were ignored. Deal with the bill. Unchanged means that the statements of the Institute of Nature will continue to be ignored, which the smaller parts consider to be reprehensible. It is also important to remember that there are now some factors like this. To come here to the country. A company was only announced in the last few weeks that are about to consider that just use and cultivate, go and then go to increase the carbon binding that can be done in the ocean after modern living organisms. We've all heard of the infamous male fix project that includes taking carbon dioxide and turning it into a rock in the earth, which, of course, is great. But it's also being examined, and this particular foreign company is about to set off in this field, and now it's just at dawn that it's going to be their first design in growing them up and then they'd be about to start a very interesting route in which we feel it's a little hard to set laws and salute about using them at the same time as we might be looking at this as a possible tool in climate, and we feel that we have to look at things much more closely and that all of the others seem to be less aware that the matter is not reconstituted and that it needs more detailed. So that natural protection, climate, and nation's interests are sufficiently protected. So suggests that the case should be referred to the government. That's what's written here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u101	Madam President. I present the Committee of General and Education Committee for a joint reconnaissance test. The bill suggests that the temporary removal of the obligation to provide a consistent exploratory test at the base schools until 31 December 2024. The committee discussed the matter and found visitors and received comments on the subject. It is mentioned in a committee program. It should be noted that after the committee handled the case, there were two comments received from the Children's Heart and the Children's Provider. They are available on the council's website, along with other comments, but they do not allow for change or change and position on the matter. Following the Commission's discussion of the matter, the Commission especially wants to justify the importance of an overall review of a consistent study evaluation of the interests and needs of students. It is the goal of providing students, students, and parents with better information about students' positions. At the same time, it is important to ensure good consultation with stakeholders for those jobs. With reference to the above - mentioned statements, it is right to insist that children are stakeholders have the right to participate in policy activities and decision making on all matters that concern them. Section 12. The children's covenant. Madam President. There is a report from the Ministry of Education and Culture on a future policy on a consistent study evaluation published in 2020. There you can see the suggestions of a workgroup on targets, roles, implementation and implementation of integrated exploratory tests and are intended to look to that work as a result of a review. There are various reasons to postpone uniform tests, but it is clear that the output of the tests as they are currently has failed. The performance of these tests has become a technical problem and a critical of their arrangements. So it is important to introduce a new consistent study evaluation as soon as possible. A review of the Union's Union of Iceland reports that the relationship is strongly supporting the continuation of joint research tests and that time will be used to work on the design and induction of a new consistent study evaluation in cooperation with stakeholders and the Committee agrees on these views and suggests that the bill will be agreed on as unchanged. In addition to this magazine's view of the subject, see here, below. The members of the assembly, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Eyilur the Ármannsson of Aargis, Kristínardóttir Anna Kristir, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Þórarinsson, Gautason Götason, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeir, daughter of Logi Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u102	A respectable president. We are here to discuss a matter in which it is suggested that we temporarily eliminate the obligation to submit a joint reconnaissance test in elementary schools until December 31, 2024, and this was taken over just a few minutes ago, quite clearly according to the committee's opinion at that point. paritaprevir Jóhanna Friðrik Friðriksson This has been discussed in the General and Education Committee. This case, with one accord in charge of payment, and as an officer of the hearing, I agree with the opinion outlined above. It is clear that the time should be spent by the Ministry to introduce a new consistent study evaluation based on the proposal of a future policy on a consistent study evaluation since 2020, and this, of course, was considered a little overcoming. The committee has this mess that has been under test, the mismanagement it has caused students. But the reason why I might come up here is, in fact, sort of, to draw attention to the fact that we got a review into the committees of the ninth grade, Daniel Þröstur and Ríkharður flókinn that came to us, and it was a bit fun, both now and I want them to have it only documented here from the Senate hearing, taking only a review they sent in. Then they arrived before the committee and spoke with us for a long time, answering the questions of the members of the committee, and they enjoyed and benefited members of the committee. They say, with the permission of the President: We are only unanimous about postponing a uniform test, but on the condition of resupplying it once it has been changed and improving the standardized tests are important to examine and know the status of the education system without a test that all of us don't know about the skills of students and all students will have to take different test options. This would take more time and it would be difficult to compare with the results of previous tests and results between different schools. Information from a standardized test is of utmost importance to know what subjects it puts better emphasis on and what needs to be done to improve education. And it is also important to consider whether groups are shrinking or staying behind, not only do we understand problems with our present - day uniform tests but we also understand them. Technology problems are often present and will delay take and in some cases fall but before completion of the test and then continue. Daniel Þröstur became increasingly complex, since since this is what I mentioned, they come before the committee, and here they put their emphasis on this and I just want to keep it in order because it's very important that we deal with issues that concern the interests of children and young people, to include them in the decision-making and that they appear before the committee, send in a review, report to the committee, and study. It's just very precious, and I'm sure we're supposed to do more by trying to call out for reviews and to include these groups when we're making the one thing that has to do with their interests. It was so that it was pointed out to them on account of all the things we might not be wondering much about or from other sources, so that is actually one reason why I come up here. It's just to draw attention to the fact that this was an excellent initiative for them to post reviews and appear before the committee. It was precious to all of us. Other than that, of course, this matter is unique. As mentioned here, just a minute ago, the question was: paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik's Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u103	President Leví Gunnarsson to be in a slightly different context here and suggest that a consistent diagnostic test will simply be thrown into the trash, drawing the reason for it is complex. At first, consistent reconnaissance tests are not the same as most of us in this room. In our childhood, we had a consistent test that is quite different and were actually used to evaluate the skills of students when it came to the review of high school and so forth applications. This is the performance of the students in these tests directly affected the continuation of their schooling as a result of a consistent exploratory test. It is that they are solely for the students and really educational authorities when the school itself comes to some extent as such, which is, in effect, a consistent exploratory test, are external surveillance, quality control of schools. The problem is that it is simply being cheated. There are far too many schools around the country that do not send certain students on a consistent reconnaissance test, allowing them to skip school out better when compared to school. This has been ongoing for very many years, and it is quite familiar with my former employment in the National Institute of Education. The discussion precisely there, so that the concerted exploratory tests as they are, in effect, indicate that their purpose is that such an external quality surveillance of the school is actually to be carried out on them with regard to the principal school's educations because of this, as shown by the exploratory test, would actually be a tool for the educational authorities, the government, really, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, etc. so that, in fact, outside quality surveillance of the school is put up in a way that allows them to measure specific progress, according to the ability of primary study materials. On the other hand, if schools are not making students show up, it is obviously a wrong conclusion and helps students are not really seeing their status in other schools because school does not actually get a realistic view of their results compared to the class but only to the students who are really allowed so clearly to take the test. It's all going around. That is, then, how it is said that some students do not attend or that their parents usually keep the students away from attending. It's all going around. But as a measuring device, it is simply inaccurate and therefore not critical. She's just making headwork and trouble for students. Actually, there's everything. This is a practical tool. It's just having all the schools take the same test everywhere is a practical approach for investigators who are investigating the progress and quality of school and how such school activities develop and trying to get a comparison between years and the like. However, it is not necessarily justified in allowing the educational authorities or investigators who take the data out of their integrated research to some extent have an advantage. Perhaps the codfishing is not necessarily a correct word, but the availability may be more accurate, for pursuing education is simply not supposed to be. I'm not going to say more complicated things. I'm supposed to be different and normal requirements for an investigator, which is, in fact, when quality equipment is made in the field of education. Using the uniform reconnaissance test is simply not just a personal protection leak and so on. Well, suppose it is a Scientific Committee that is signed under a particular methodology and therefore similar for study, the research of those who are doing some sort of analysis of child-school by composing a follow-up probe test and trying a law behind which intellectuals get in a much more accessible way than they would get into if they had to set up their own research themselves and take them in the same way as all other applicants in all other fields through the Scientific Committee, for example This problem would be completely different, and on or in the field of research, and I believe this is actually a barrier to good studies of the education system in Iceland because it is to some extent too common. They give too easy access to not necessarily good reasons for the investigation. It would be more natural to have access to both governments because they needed to explain why they want the information they want, which is what is to happen in all scientific fields when explaining, for example. The Scientific Committee of the Organization. Why would you want to demonstrate your own research? It should not necessarily be easy for the government to get these overall data, much less familiar because there are defects involved in them, but rather have intellectual authorities to have to work through the process as everyone else must do so, so that the consistent exploratory tests are inaccurate to this choice of bias or in English as the salmon into the test, you do not really have to compare these results between schools, in fact, do not produce the results you need in general scientific research. If you take it as if this is the test from the population, an error is included in the data when the data are analysed. It is not good to try to correct them in some way. Is it just a bit difficult for you not to really know which type of cropper was used to follow up or which students were released, and it is in my opinion too strongly affecting what a consistent exploratory test should be able to do if they were to live up to what they say should be under choice freedom of choice rather than, in my opinion, too easy to access to the whole educational system. I don't think that's justified because it makes certain things make laziness, maybe just for educated scientists, to be honest. There are some interesting data available in these studies that follow the Convention's consistent reconnaissance tests. But these are studies that can be done with normal effort, as all other scientists have to do, and I think it's better for both educated scientists for education for education authorities because this outside quality control that we're under law to do is internal quality monitoring as well as outside quality control but two. They are part of the quality monitoring. There are other things. In other words, employees from High Schools go to school and do all kinds of research and research, and here, such opinions, and so on. This isn't the only part. But this is part of what I think we should start asking a larger question just because we've really gotten used to it because this is part of our upbringing to go and take a uniform test. It's so it makes such a rich tradition to some extent that we stop fanaticism and ask: Wait, the basic questions, if there weren't such a consistent probe test, would we put them on? I think the answer really is there. No, we wouldn't. And if it weren't for this story that we've done it before, we'd make other demands on how we, sometimes outside quality supervision of schools, for just students for our parents in this room, are actually so agreed on as to the main course and so on. How should we fulfill the role of running the school system? So I'm just putting it in the bag, that it's getting late because they have to record, pass a coordinated reconnaissance test, and maybe just inform it. I was in the process of installing my first electronic computer simulations a few years ago, in the case of 2016, 15,000 15 yes, without comment would be so unfortunate that I went to just my birthallof when tests were being passed. The tests were in progress, started up, and the company we were working with the software here with the recommended update that was so failed, and so we lost, has failed, has not been fun being done and experimenting here. So, as a test run at school on Seltannenes was very successful, but it was precisely recommended that I never sign that just before you go to a consistent reconnaissance test throughout the country, you have to go up to the software and drive them onto it without just having it going nowhere. The top was a total nutcase. Hate broke my heart. I was there with a little kid, and I was here for my visit. The manner in which the work was being done was seen by a educational agency. It was very interesting, such an interesting reason for what went wrong. All students get a password list of things that were run into the system, and they're all there and they're all fun and they've told them to try something on some of their users and so on, but no one could record. Then, in reality, it was just wrong, notes, as different as nothing happened. It was simply because, after bringing in all the information, the committee needed something like this of a space so that the students who can go in and save the student today could only be updated to the Icelandic database system. Then they could file a lawsuit, even if someone did. Yes, it was a very small task, but electronic research has been on a nice head pain since sometimes it's not quite working. But here. But at any rate, I recommend that both of us be mentally healthy, our young ones for the first anointed, the electronic testing, and, in fact, educated science, people, and all of us, just take this consistent reconnaissance test and stab me badly. It's been a really nice audition for too many years, which is just something we have to do differently. We need to be able to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u104	Madam President. Yeah, I'm just here to really celebrate this bill. I am very pleased that it was said that this bill was being submitted to pass the uniform tests, at least for now, but only to eliminate the uncertainty. It is very bad for children and adolescents to be unsure whether the tests will turn out or not, so it's only very good to do so. But there were some people who sent in the application or sent in the envelopes and the children's grant, the school and staff advisers, the Union's country partner, the Children's Emirates and then the like. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson mentioned earlier, two young students of the ninth grade, Daniel Þröstur and ríkur, and all of them agree that so. I welcome this bill that at least they should be temporarily eliminated. But I can say that, too. Since I've been right up until I've attended a council in the management of an elementary school teacher, I know that the management of an elementary school teacher supports this bill firmly and rejoices over what's interesting, listening to what's what's really interesting. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson earlier asked that he felt that these tests should be thrown into the trash, and it is a question of whether it is right and right to do so as a teacher. Then I know there's a lot of differences between teachers in these tests and there's been loud criticisms, voices, not only on their electronic projects but on the tests, was very interesting here a few years ago, or just year after year. During written tests, there were great benefits, great criticism from teachers every year, and all kinds of errors they encountered in testings and things that didn't work out, and I don't know what or what. It seemed as if it were almost solved by making them electronic. Now teachers don't get an inspection, so it's just not. There's nobody. There's no such criticism today, but here, one of the things that maybe I personally don't like uniform tests and one of the reasons why I don't think they're teachers we're always trying to draw them out. We are trying to draw out the strong aspects of their uniform tests, not somehow evaluating their abilities, but trying to find out what they cannot do. It's something I find the wrong way, and it's actually allowing traps, rather than trying to introduce them to myself, and I just lost a thread of what I was going to say, but at least here, let's not get into it any more if I lost the thread. But I'd also like to name it as a Levin, anyway. paritaprevir Leví once said that the schools were not significant, that even the schools were not sending all students out to get them out better. I don't think it's right. Schools are in general, I don't think, at least, not at the school I know about. Then they're not gonna let the students go on a standard test because they're so scared for average school. They are protecting certain students from having to sit down over tests that are known to be beyond their control. It's just that it's kind of wickedness, sometimes sending certain students into these tests. It's just that. It's just something like that. I've been a teacher through the years, and I've been a teacher even. teaching children a lot with student loans, problems, and it's just sometimes that you just know that the child would break down. But I think that's more reason than the concern of the schools about their average. Yeah, so here it was now, maybe most of the thing I wanted to say was that I'm in the flesh that these tests could be thrown out and never recorded again and even. sees what I was going to say before, including because they measure a very limited potential for a student. They measure very specific factors, and there are children, and all of us, especially children, are children. They're made up of more things than whether they've got some really logical reasoning in mathematics, so it's somehow something. That's what I'm against them, just hot kids? No, they're not strong there, and they're so strong in even so many other things, and that's what I have. vs. these tests. But I'm going to weigh that may not be a topic for discussion now and whether it will be permanently laid down or not. But I'm celebrating this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u105	9th. South, Birgir Þórarinsson, yes. Madam President. The nominee I'll recommend that the Senate resolution, the strategist be chosen in Home Island, and the proposal says that the General concluded that in 2020, 50 years have passed since Homeland Island's eruption to order a committee to prepare a monument's purchase of that historic event. The Commission shall appoint five agents and shall be appointed according to the appointing of the Council of the Western Islands, two of the Allied Islands, and one without a form of appointment, and shall be the chairman of the Committee. Prior to the end of August 2022, the Commission shall submit proposals for the approved Prime Minister. The Committee will further arrange for further preparations for the installation and unveiling of monuments in the summer of 1923 and I will now recommend, Madam President, for the Commission's opinion of changing proposals. The Commission has discussed the matter and received a review of the Western Islands town's affairs, and with the Senate resolution, it is suggested that the Council shall appoint prime minister to appoint a committee to prepare to buy a monument of the world's monuments for the eruption of 1973, 1 and previously stated: In the following year, 50 years will be passed from the volcanic eruption in Home Island. In view of the Commission, it is important that the milestones in the Western Islands be remembered as well as the history of the fire trades and the community between the distribution of the case at the General Assembly and the delay mentioned as Prime Minister being too short, as I mentioned earlier. At that time, it was originally assumed that it would be the end of the August of this year. The Commission suggests that the deadline will be reassigned to another degree and suggest that the proposal be adopted with the following adjustment or adjustment, and, rather, as directed by the deadline, be extended to the preparatory committees and, instead of August 2, to the third paragraph, by extension of this delay until October. Yes, there is nothing more here in this committee party, but Sigurður Páll Jónsson was absent from the case. Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdóttir, Logi Einar Einarsson, was absent from the case, but literature was regarded as having been passed at 2 mgr. Twenty-nine. Conventional law and Sigmar Guðmundsson is in agreement with this opinion. Now and under this view are the publications of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Birgir Þórnarsson, author of Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir Kristinasdótir Genirsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Kári Gautason, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrigesdótir, and Einarsson. Hv. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u106	The worst district of AarhuaEyjólfur Ármannsson. A respectable president. I believe this monument's odor proposal for the kitchen Home Island is a very important contribution to commemorate this dramatic event. I myself was born in the Western Islands, three and a half years old, if the eruption began at 2:30 in the morning to leave on January 23, 1974. So waked out of the living room window, and you were at the docks and also in pots to the Coyote. But I think we should remember, too. It is said here, to have on July 3, 223, 50 years since the end of the eruption's world. I hope for the prize, ceremony, or Memorial that will take place next year. There is also the smallest eruption of January 23, as well as their end, and I believe that it is appropriate that one of the world's world's leading artists, Ólafur the son of Elíasson, be brought to work on monumental ideas. This is stated in the panel proposal for action in the report that there is one of the greatest artists in the country. I think it's more correct to call it the world's leading artists in their field. In fact, he's one of both Icelanders and Dana, he's called himself an artist's own dance, so to speak. With regard to the proposals itself, I believe that the preparatory committee is in order to complete her work by the end of August of this year to propose a proposal for the Ministry of Presidency approved. I believe these proposals for monuments should also include the preparatory committee, of course, the celebration at the end. I hope that the eruption festival in Home Island is complicated that it will be a sort of national festival. I think it's a dramatic event in the history of the nation that took place, and it's actually never been explained enough about the effect on the people who survived and moved to the country, and it was a crisis aid, and I think it might be considered in more detail. The survivors, especially in the area under lava. It wasn't so blown up about where the bill would be later, it doesn't exist anymore. This lost part of the island, which went under lava and one outstanding event in the nation's history, may also be remembered to relate to the geystic area that is there on the crack - belt up and down. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has written a book that is now published on the part of a host game when a group went to the Surts Islands. The third group that traveled to the Suets Islands in 1963, a volcanic island ten years earlier, was used 63 C.E., part of the same rift belt of Eyjall. All of us do not know the May 1, 2010, of Eyjafjöll and the volcano. It's also the same crack belt. It is related, and it would be worth remembering, too, that we live in a dangerous place in the world regarding volcanoes. We can also remember that my father had given the human family in this group for a reason. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson is involved in a battle at the gin of vixils, I believe the book entitled on the Sunts Island will travel the Western Island. They wanted to call it the worst, to try a great deal of ambition for those who were in those islands, and not the natural ones in the islands around Home Island, and to consider the West to be the rights. But it was decided by whether it was not mentioned in Reykjavík that came with the name Surtsey. I rejoice in this proposal of integrity, and I hope that the Allied will be able to produce this projection of the volcanic eruptions in Home Island, and it will also be a part of the government, supporting the festival at the end of the 50th anniversary of the eruption of the soda 50 years, from the end of the soda soda soda, which will be remembered in a larger context. The context of this dramatic event and of those who were at the best of their age at that time. They are now elderly, elderly people come to 80 years of age, even at the time of family and my father's care. He died in 2019, and he would have been 87 years old for a year if he had lived. There were many in his generation who were then in the prime of life with children with families that fled. I think it would be a good idea, and I hope that the festival around the eruption of the final festival will be a true national festival and the memorial of home eruption will be a fine and strong monument that will continue for decades, and even the 100th anniversary of soda the final festival after another 50 years when this eruption, the memory of this eruption will live on in the Icelandic legend as the most remarkable event in the latter part of the last century.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u107	Hv. 6th. We're out of Suðvest. "Berry Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I hereby recommend the committee of Honorary and Education Committee, the greater part of it. I think there are probably all members of the Committee that sign this opinion, but here we are discussing an action program in gay affairs for 2022◯2025. The majority consider this to be an important and positive step in improving the status and rights of queer people in the community with continued work and the induction of the projects specified in the programme should be sought for extensive consultation with stakeholders, as well as the importance of making each operation an investment. The Committee included: reviewing a number of measures in the programme, would have a direct significance for the rural community and put the EU Union in place as an emphasis on access to the implementation of measures and work groups intended to set out to meet the relevant targets as well as the measures involved in rural areas will be costly. The majority agree with this indication from the European Union of rural society and that it is important to work on the induction of activities affecting rural society in cooperation with them. A number of factors, including those included, are currently under operation schedule These articles discuss the health - care directive, where the objective of the procedure is to better explain the role of the Children and the Youth Department of the Land Hospital team, about sexual awareness when it comes to services to individuals who are under law and what special services are needed to ensure that those who are looking for the service of the team. An essay with the proposal includes a series of articles. to insist on clarifying the status of children under 16 years of age when request for irreversible changes is provided on the terms of the 11th paragraph. The law. This was discussed in the review of this article, and to the committee it was noted that BUG's transgroup was strongly concerned with working on such regulations as soon as possible and that the members of the team would reach that job. It was noted that it is important to define specific points more closely based on sex-specific laws, such as specifying which groups will be referred to for the services of the trans, BiGL, and on the other hand, reversible and irreversible measures. The majority of them consider it important to look to the factors mentioned in the review when this procedure is carried out, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. I am now under discussion of the rules for blood transfusions in section 18 of a programme where changes in the requirement for apheresis, treatment, maintenance and distribution of blood and Annex 4 are recommended to be made in order to avoid any practice of blood transfusion related to sexual orientation. Now the reviews and the committee were specifically discussed, and they arranged for a psychiatrist and the Blood Bank to come over to discuss this matter. The blood bank was saying that funding was needed to introduce so - called assessments, screening and infection, cleaning, real cost. The majority agree with the opinions presented to the Committee that it should always be guided by the security of the recipient as well as by the importance of providing objective opinions on the issues of who can become a blood transfusion and the timing of changes in the programme. Under these teams, there were undoubtedly open - minded discussions that have taken place in the International Assembly of Sex, where it was consistently important that blood transfusions be associated with certain risks involved in turning toward sexual behavior rather than sexual orientation. Now the committee suggests two adjustments in the strategy, one on the issues of queer senior citizens and disability, and in a memo that says: "We discussed this specifically and requested the position of the Ministry of Health in the Department's memo on the Committee. I'm sorry, but we didn't want the position of the Department of Health, but in a memo for the Committee, the Department called attention to the work of the Norwegian Minister on the quality of life of older people in the gay community, that the initiative for Norway, which is now premeditated in the Council of Ministers here, is being cooperated with Iceland, who take the lead in the Committee over the next year and continue to be carried on this project, and the committee was very pleased to hear of this project as we are convinced that it will add services to the older people. But the decision of the committee was to suggest a change in this matter, and I want to thank you. paritaprevir The year - to - Eyjólfur Ármannsson coat for making the recommendations we all agree on, which is the change in diagnosis specifically mentioned in this committee party. At the same time, a change in the status of queer people in the country is made, and there is also a change in motion. Senator. I want a what, too. paritaprevir The Eyjólfur of the Year's Ármannsson. I want to guess too. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir has been particularly involved and did so on the committee, but the position of queer people in the country may be sensitive, especially for youths and on the committee's discussion of the matter was established, and the majority of them feel the need to respond by suggesting that there be a new team that includes the objective of investigating the feelings and status of queer people in the country from social factors and viewpoints of equal to local living conditions in the country. More education needs to be considered, access to national support. Following the recommended assessment, further measures are needed to balance the status of queer people throughout the country. I have here, a respectable president, run over the Commission opinion available and there are the changes made in our opinion in this committee primarily these which I am referring to, but also to some who are more technical than under this term, the one that is written here, and the one that is, as well as the other. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir Berglidi, Ósk Guðmundsdóttir, Eyjólfur's son Ármannsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrigesdóttir, Logi Einarsson and an audience of the Committee. Sigmar Guðmundsson expresses himself in agreement with this view.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u108	Thank you. A senator for his history and good words toward me. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator. I'm not going to start asking questions as I agree with them. There were very lively discussions about sexual orientation and sexual behavior at the Committee, and this was very much considered regarding the connection between blood banks and blood transfusions. Now, I'm not going to go over the others again, looking for the 17th scheme of action, but it's very important to see that everyone is comfortable with a blood transfusion, and that's the question his catch raised questions. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator on the budget of financing the Action Programme. Now, in the 1st, it's a cost plan, 40 million, but then all the other numbers are always talking about costs, counting within the budget, and it's a little vague what it means, and I'm afraid that this important strategy could be subsidized, whether it's how money will be assured of this operation plan and what it means by the term or by means of financial resources. Is it then the financial rights of each time and if it is not important that the council ensures that funding for this operation and also, which I also believe very important to this operation program, is that this operation program in queer people's affairs will be carried out on the basis of queer people and will remain to queer people. The work of this action programme is to be directly carried out, and it is particularly seeking that it operates on its own terms and is now not specifically talking about the changes made, is being carried out on the feelings of queer microorganism and the elderly, while well-being of queer people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer to this is a plan of action on the affairs of queer people we're here to agree with, so I suppose that, in view of the fact that there's a great deal of agreement here and that they'll soon be accepted, so we're going to have an agreed strategy. I don't think it's possible to talk about getting someone else on that plan, but it's a good review of how this program has been worked out for the council, and of course it went under a review of both my consultations and ours here at the council. On the other hand, I agree with what appears, or I read in my view. The senator, of course, is that this is about the future of the operation plan, that it is designed on the basis of the groups discussed here, and that we all agree that I and I are involved. A member of a committee body specifically pointed to the local community, therefore, as part of these very issues exist, and then, for example, there. I just take a random example like that. 10 is a change in the rules of loyalty. Hv. A senator began to wonder what means that there is room within the budget and may now not be able to spend so much money changing regulations. On the other hand, it is here being said that in this Regulation it is talking about the method of loyalty on swimming and bathing, and the aim of action must ensure that transmissions are taken into account, including those with the neutralising generation, in terms of access to the salerator and other facilities so that changes the Regulation will definitely not be made in terms of money, but it may cost money to carry out what would be involved. As a result, I believe that it is important to have your rural society in good and valid consultation. You're right about what you're doing. A senator says that there is a special budget set in the 1st act programme, a gay budget because it's clear and needed for money. Otherwise, it is expected to stay within the budget, as it is said, and I must make it clear in the second answer to how it happens. But the Ministry knows.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u110	Senator Eyjólfur the Yearlyman's Ármannsson. Yeah, I want to thank you. A senator for the answer, and hopefully she'll explain more fully within the budget, and this 1st section is not being taken over 40 million. K. That's about 40 million. K. which is a cost plan. It's not going on the other side, that it's actually new or capital in there from the state to implement the strategy. Another thing that I also think is important here, and it's about the adjustment proposal, and as shown in the report, it's a matter of gay older citizens, desperate people, that we're talking about people who broke the path. The practicality of gay people's rights struggles is very important, I believe, that there will be an assessment of the well - being of queer people and will be taken into consideration by community factors, such as changing proposals here are proposed for the change and for the well - being of people in the country. Today, we live in the city community in the capital area, and in smaller communities, it is often harder to be queer than to be lost in the population here in Reykjavík. So I think this is a very important thing, and I hope it is. A senator agrees with this because of its binding of liberal Reykjavík. Even if everyone is gay and in little space and stuff like that, they need to be able to get across the country. I'm not going to keep it this far, but I'm waiting excited to hear better from what happened. A senator and an executive with regard to financial matters. The amount of money that goes on in this and those items I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u111	The answer will be the second. Hv. Senators. Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. Yes, a respectable president, thank you again. Senator. I just wanted to guess at the beginning because he referred to me as a background agent. Sure, it's the opinion of the committee, but I want to know that the manager of the case was Jódís Skúladóttir. A senator, who is sadly absent now but had a lot of work to do with this, and I know that this is a big matter to her heart. But that the question of financial rights is put in the 1st past, which is the creation fund of gay causes. The report says about the operation that a queer case fund will be employed in the Presidency Department. The aim of the fund is to strengthen the government's work by implementing projects for legislation at the Management Board associated with queer affairs. There will be regulations on how to take care of the fund, and they will be presented to the Ministry by September 1, 2002. The models of this fund are drawn for the European Commission of Equal Opportunities, and the fund will be able to support the work and follow up of projects related to this operation so that in some case the Ministry may be responsible for certain points in the programme to be included in this fund. But in other matters, such as making it possible for me to put this Regulation into practice, it should not be necessary to obtain special financial privileges, so I think that this is merely a matter of stressing the importance of this seminary, and I take my heart into it by reason of it. Senator. It's a little bit about putting these glasses on in the administration. This is about our management board looking at these goals and being aware of the importance of this strategy being met, and then I can say that because I and I are aware of it. A senator sits: Now it's such a lucky time to sit together on a budget board. It may therefore be our job in the follow-up to observe when financial programmes show that these goals are subject to relevant problems and that they include the provision of funds, which informs us of the progress and goals of each individual.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u112	It's Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. I'd like to start by thanking the Honorable General and Education Committee for the work they've put into this important Senate arrangement, and this is indeed a measure of ambition here, the smell of Congress and the operation of gay people and they're really good at seeing that there are lots of situations to be handled in the community, and it's also good that they should set up a time plan and a defined responsibility for the projects assigned here. But I'd like to address their concerns or they'd be right there. paritaprevir The AarhusmanEyjólfur Ármannsson pointed to the funding of these objects, building a year's profit fund because the constant use of the word for action is very difficult to trace. If you're going to try to trace how much money you've earned, e.g. ... weshouldseteachstage here, and we can't see how much this operation is actually costing as a whole. That's no. 1, No. 2 is that we don't see the overall cost of action plans. It also doesn't give us a chance to understand the depth of each item, and I want to give one example of that, and I actually can say that I can't say as well, as it was said in a review of Iceland's 14th and 17th chapters. The strategy is on, 16. deals with, with the permission of the President, the procedure of a team of Hospitals on sexual consciousness and changes in sexual characteristics and then 17th. Or the 17th procedure and it deals with health care regulations related to sexual awareness and sexual autonomy, and I would like to read directly from Trans Iceland's review, which at least didn't notice that there had been more information about it in particular in the committee opinion. They said, with President's permission: Trans Iceland does not think it is enough to cross the team, both south and LSH, establish a procedure that will be agreed on. Increased funds are needed as well as for further design, while waitings in both locations have increased in recent years and are unacceptable. The need for intervention to shorten the previously formed waiting lists is as follows: There is a need for trans, children, and adolescents to receive their immediate service, of course, a sensitive group that needs to be met on their terms, and then we may look at what is related to this sexual awareness, self - control, and if we look at 16 and 17 years of age, we may simply read: There is a plan of interest within the budget. That's where one would want to know it was, for example. put the funding to attack and tackle this waiting list. We don't see that at the moment in the Action Programme. I realize that it may be difficult to change now. But I generally find it hard to figure out how much to do or what you're doing. Can a beautiful promise be made? You can say: We're going to fix the regulations, but we're going to fix the problem, which is that this service has become a pretty long wait for her, and as I say, I'm not doing, putting on my own plan, I think it's very ambitious and many good things are being dealt with. I wanted to welcome the changes that most of the committee pointed to and made in the way of queer deserters and elderly people and history, the well - being of queer people in the country. I believe both of these changes are very good, and actually just each action here is very good. But it's hard for us to understand what's really going on, and that I think we can try to learn something about the future strategy that we're going to do, that we're trying to keep it a little clearer, so that the people that this is not reading on the General Assembly tomorrow when, hopefully, we've agreed to this council plan, that we're just living, guarantee everything that's turning over, e.g. We may not be the device. No, I'm just talking about the need to think about it when we're making plans like this and here and setting goals that we need to be a little clear about this, and then I hope that we just try to tackle what is missing in the screening of the law because we heard this morning on the radio that there's a lot of blood shortage in the Blood Bank and there's people in this group who want to donate blood are all the conditions they're given up against this one person today. The sexual orientation is specified in a Regulation, so hopefully we can fix it too, be quick and easy to accept, but let it end again, thanking the Committee for a great and good job in this, and I know that all of these are things that will improve things for people or people involved in this. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u113	Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech, and all I wanted to do was enter this point of interest in financing and what was said in the review because it is called that particular point, No. 16 or the goal of the procedure, as part of the Land Hospital, about sexual awareness and changes in sexual characteristics, and with the permission of a president, I would like to read here just to the latter part that says this procedure in the conclusion: It is important to ensure that services to transversian persons are always based on the latest research and work protocols on an international scale. The Family Hospital's issue of sexual awareness and changes in sexual characteristics set by the sexual autonomy laws shall set out procedures that meet these criteria with the objective of passing out properly and condemning the services of Rosa. I just reiterate it specifically because there was not much discussion long ago about this, and I think it's very important because this point is in here, the procedure of such factors as the current research and knowledge of this class, that all health - care professionals know and follow such procedures. And by the way, I say yes, this dot is all about the procedure, but you're right about it. A senator and what was said on the very topic that points to this alone is not enough to ensure service to those who truly need this vital service. Of course, we are involved in some way, but more than what we are seeing in the Icelandic health - care system, a lack of health care professionals. I know that this case has the problem to make it, that it's been way too much of a employees' choice. People have come by and stopped for a short time, which is really pathetic. In this case, there is so much experience and knowledge that when it comes to the quality of the ministry, so I simply repeat that it is an important case that measures our health system all, but if we were to solve these huge problems that are the health problems of the Western health world and that, in many places, we would probably never be able to accept the interpretation as this. That's why I think it's an important step, a point of view. A senator says that it also needs to be done better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u114	That'll answer the question. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I completely agree with that. Of course, procedures need to be procedures, and they need to be, not attached to a stone, but things that develop as understanding, research, and other developments in this field, such as all other aspects of medicine. But as for the workers, it's just been in this business about health care and we've been seeing this in emergency departments and other places, and we just have to figure out that the pressure on the staff and then to meet what they get paid for their work is clearly not working out, and that just means we have to look at how we can, for example, look at it. Make sure people get a decent salary without having to be working night and day, and it was often an example here when people began fleeing, and especially those from the health professions were fleeing the country after the crash, often giving examples of health care, people going to Norway, and the hotel of Norway, and they got a similar pay from taxes as they got here, unless the difference was the only one shift, which said either day shifts or late shifts in the night, but not two and shifts or a lot of work to cover the same amount of money so that we needed. I hope it's something that's the highest. The health minister is checking out. How can we make sure that we have some of these people?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u115	It gives an answer to a second one, what. paritaprevir The honourable President Haraldsdóttir. They just agree, and this is just one of the biggest challenges. Our group of painters is healthy here to ensure qualified and good staff for the work that is ready to do this rather than struggle. Hv. A senator named Norway and what happened here after a crash. Then I'd like to take a quick look at the procedures that have gone through that we've been putting under stress on shift work, people and working hours, shortening it there, which means that it's even a short time. an operation to meet this challenge. Of course, it's so difficult when we went through one of the epidemics of health care professionals and the pressures of living things. I think we can all agree. It's repeated, and I agree with it. A senator says this is one of our greatest challenges, an answer to an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u116	Hv. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson. Madam President. Thank you. A senator for later the answer, and I think we agree. The problem of design needs to be solved, and this has to be linked to the natural process, such as the whale. A senator showed that this is a wealth of expertise that if people are released, that knowledge and experience will be lost and the highest. During the days, the secretary of finance said that not the money was the problem when it came to fixing the health system. We may just have to put him on top of it and find ways to use some money and some other things to do it so that people can work here without these, pressures, and other things are so that they burn out and give up, as unfortunately, there are too many people. Many examples.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u117	V.E.G. President. Iceland has rocked the rainbow complaint during the past few years after being safely seated in the top five seats there, now in the year 2022. That's when we're sitting on the list in the ninth place. It's a disappointment, especially if we want Iceland to be a country of equal equality and equal opportunities. We're supposed to sit in the front seats on the rainbow complaint. Iceland has not been successful enough in terms of legal reform and the improved status of gay people. It is a pleasure to see that the government is going to take hold of the group of litigators and show her how she takes matters seriously to queers. I am glad that there will be an assessment of the well - being of gay children in the school system and that there will be special consideration for the well - being and status of queer children and young people in the schools of the country. History tells us that these years can be especially difficult for young people. No one should suffer excommunication, prejudice, or other such conduct. I also agree with their suggestion that change is needed in penalties. This, then, is to bring hate speech to the ground on the basis of sexual characteristics in which they will be punished. Hate speech is harmful, and it is a powerful influence on those who live up to it, and a wording is in its very nature a stronger hatred crime, and we should not allow it to continue. There is one thing in this operation program that especially drew my attention. It's the 15th, it's queer, fishing, and agriculture. It says that there will be a survey of the attitudes and status of queer people in the fishing field and agriculture. The aim of the action is to call attention to the position of queer people in that sector and the importance of diversity in all sectors. In a sense, we know very little about the position of queer people in agriculture and fishing roads, and considering my experience in agriculture, I suppose there's just nothing but a very little about them talking there. So some questions arise. You can see this. That's probably a scene where we haven't been doing our job, though, might just be indirect and prejudiced in these sectors. We may need to take a look at ourselves when it comes to this, so I'm glad it's a special part. In the Action Programme, it is of utmost importance that we know the situation and draw attention to the position of queer people, both in fishing and in agriculture, and the importance of diversity in all sectors, as I told them before. Iceland is a country of equality and as much opportunity as we want it to be, and we're supposed to be proud of it. But we do not keep that position without training and emphasis on diversity. We do this in schools with education, we build it up, and we do it within the government, and I believe, in part, the elected representatives need a much greater education in this field than we have now received. This applies both to the state and to the level of government. It is very important that knowledge of the elected representatives and managers of the rights and social status of gay people is acceptable. Therefore, by offering them instruction and emphasis on equality within the government. Governments are to nurture all the inhabitants of the land, and this requires those who govern them to be aware of the status of all. The committee discussed this proposal very much. It was often a very fancy discussion on the committee and very frank, and I think it was very good. We made adjustments and added two teams that I like very much, the feeling of queer deserters and the elderly as well as the 2nd, about the well-being of gay people in the country, and I think it's just really good. I'm celebrating this council-sense proposal and will certainly be on the green button when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u118	South, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson. Madam President. I can now begin my speech by giving a talk. A senator mentioned earlier, when she rejoiced over this suggestion, Lilja Rafney Islands of Sigurgeirsdóttir's daughter, does end. So do I. I like to see here about the litigations that concern queer senior citizens and desperate people because there's a truly impossible group. The nature of it. In the face of a struggle for rights, something far more important. I also like to think of the position of queer people in the country. It is long since time to change the rules about blood transfusions, and so on. But I'm going to assume that these matters have been considered. I gave a talk on the first round up. Thank you. Since I was happy about it, we've been over the issues or shows in this case, but I'd like to use this opportunity here and point out a point. That's the position of gay children and teenagers. I find it difficult to stand here and celebrate our success in the affairs of queer people who, of course, are successful, society's affairs, healthy society, but I find it difficult to see that while queer children and teenagers are just not safe in our schools. While children and youths in this country are not in danger of shooting in school, many are in danger of another type of attack, some of which do not survive, but they do not survive in all their diversity and all of this as the rainbow and despite all the courage of the world. We do not teach our children that for some of them it is only dangerous, even life - threatening, and for whom it is dangerous for children. Gay children and queer teenagers are a dangerous environment in school today, unfortunately. Gay children and queer teenagers face the challenge of being happy for themselves in every worst situation in life, and this is because these children, these youths, are courageous to be themselves and because we are failing them. The school system responds by failing to respond in the right way and by responding as parents and as people who are going to lead in the community. There is no other word for the situation, but that of young people. I've been standing here and talking about the well - being of gay children and teenagers in school. Nor was their motive a joyful link to the results of the surveys that tell us that one third of gay youths experience insecurity at their school. Of course, this is unacceptable to these youths and to our community, and we must do better queers. You see, youths are like other youths, they differ from one another, or they are gay, but they differ from what they want out of their studies, what they want to do after school. This is just as different from this group of youths. It is with other youths who have the right to the same Bible - based opportunities, some opportunities to experience security at their school, the same opportunity to flourish in order to choose ways, to make mistakes, to experience these things that most youths and children experience in a safe society. Opportunities, insecurity, and risk should not be associated with the coming from the closet as children and teenagers, harassment, mental and physical violence, the direct risk of survival is certainly not to be part of it recently. This was reflected in this scene by people who work, for example, for example. ... witha party of 78 or a queer community center, how serious this violence is. I don't think any of us can imagine what it's like to be a teenager with all the harassment and challenges it brings to youths who fit in but who are not able to go through school in private or other places where youths come together without abuse, mental violence, even physical violence anywhere, at any time, and all of this in addition to what is common on the Internet. There is no refuge, but there is one refuge. It is a queer community center that is an experimental project in Reykjavíkurburg, and has been since 2016 and financed by temporary contracts, so both teenagers and those working at this center and the 78 Association simply proved to be essential to these children and adolescents. There's no place for the community center at the schools of these young people, not at any other meeting place of young people, not even when they walk in a group of queer friends in town or anywhere that youth meets crazy and it's totally positive, really positive that queer social centers are supposed to be, but this shelter when more positive. It is as shown in the case of these people who know best about vitals, but they are also of great concern if this is the only place that these youths can look for to be safe without being in danger because they further increase in isolation. It would have been a perimeter, the people would have rather put these youths, so in addition to a queer social center as necessary as it is and hopefully, in time, they'll have to do more than experimenting. It wasn't supposed to be the only place. We don't want that kind of community. I could go all the way out here where this challenge, violence, has had disastrous results. I'm not gonna do that. I think we all know what the situation is. Sadly, this has proved to be news. Or isn't it? That's not the bad part. This seems to be news, but unfortunately it has been, so news of terrible consequences has been reported. We have to do better than that. We can do so by making room for discussion of diversity, and we can do so by trying to ensure that our study material reflects today and provided for them, it is very important that it be studied, also in basic schools of the land as well as in the teachers'studies, so important that we educate teachers who are to continue in these matters. It is also important to think that there is no way we can throw all the responsibility on the school system, that we parents are responsible here, how we speak, how we conduct ourselves, how we set priorities in life, and how we want to teach our children because we have to admit that we are all forming our community here, and we have to face the fact that this community we are forming is not a good and safe society for this group of children and adolescents. It's not that it was now what I wanted to have said, their device that while we're celebrating the success we're achieving. We're leaving this delicate group behind. I welcome a plan of action on the affairs of gay people, as I say. I just want us to have this group in mind because when we're talking about human rights beyond anything when we talk about equal opportunities, when we talk about freedom of individuals, when we talk about social equations, when we talk about land of opportunity, we just look in the mirror and ask: Are we forgetting these brave children and young people who are part of a queer community and are models for so many, not just theirs, never but for many older ones? We have to do better with this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u119	Celebrity, Eyjólfur Ármannsson's son. A respectable president. Suggesting the subject for the discussion, operation plan on the affairs of queer people 2022/2025. I believe this is an important input into conversation with the queer people and the way to get the right standing of these people in the community. I'd like to start by thanking Katrín Friðriksdóttir, why. paritaprevir Reverence, for her introduction here, when I and especially about what she said about the well - being of gay children and young people at school, about seven into the 7th and the stories she was referring to the state of the world and young people in school, and that will be a social center and what the situation would be like in these children. When I look at this bill, I'm looking at this council-sense proposal on them and on other issues that were introduced to the General and Education Committee that I sit in. I can give an example of speech, a bill to correct the changing of equal positions to equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background, differences between factors. At that time, I feel that these issues are a little bit of the same hurt, always reminding me. It discusses harassment, e.g. defined definitions, harassment, and if we look at this case in the context of a gay operation plan, I always remember that Iceland is not free-minded, and we think there is no tolerance, and we think that there is and that harassment is endemic in this country. If anyone but different, if he queers and if he isn't quite compatible with getting on him, he's a very high risk of being raped by excommunication. I believe this operation program in gay affairs is just to prevent this harassment from being excommunicated, no matter what race or ethnic background, with an increase in treatments independent of gender. We're trying to create frame law, and we're going to plan something to stop queers from being excommunicated by society. There is a underlying problem in a community of people who cannot be solved by law and rules, but it may be that a policy of action that is proposed to be taken into consideration by queers could contribute to the reduction of harassment and excommunication, and this is a social problem, and I especially if you compare with other communities, then it is simply a larger business of Icelandic society in many ways that I think should be the source of, including to see how they are simply more likely to become poor in other Norwegian countries and to be left out. And it's also the small, isolated society. And although we are sure to look for it, some hundred, 1,000 people, it's a community that everyone knows, and everyone is amazingly alike. After all, it's been a very modest, high - frequency community, so I use it in English. That's what the idea would be. I welcome this strategy in many ways, and I think that it is very good and particularly welcome the changes proposed in the name of the entire Committee to investigate the leading queer orphans and the elderly and queer people in the country. If I'm going over some of the action programme, I think it's a very important 7th team. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksdóttir discussed, and I believe that this factor should even be able to get more important than other factors if it is important to enforce them all. I also take examples of the 6th century when discussing gay children and young people in sports, hobbies, and youth, and good news is being heard at the end of time. A senator in the preceding talk about the childhood community center of gay people, the world, gay young people. Only with regard to the discussions of the 16th Actreal Regulations, a team of Lands Hospital, the changes in sexual awareness and gender characteristics that were discussed here earlier this evening, I agree with that, and as one of the leading figures pointed out, Councilmen, Brítís Haraldsdóttir, in the 16th Action report, plan that says, with the permission of a president: It is important to ensure a transmute service, based always on the latest international research and work ethics. Quotation complete. This is absolutely fundamental when it comes to this series of 16th - class issues, and it was spoken of as a waiting list and as much as under the latest research. It is the aim of 16 teams that the aim of the action must set a protocol based on the latest studies in the category, that they will be used, and that I will be quoted in the panel's discussions by a Swedish report of this series of important benefits, I think, and the latest research there. I also want to refer to a review of the 16th issue that should be guided here on the blood transfusion directive. I can't help but express people right. There was a lot of discussion about this on the committee. The aim of the procedure is to eliminate the discrimination offered by transfusion on the basis of sexual orientation, and the Blood Bank appeared to the committee and wanted to deny only sexual behavior. But it is very important that all those who donate blood and donate blood, and I have given blood considerably in Norway, be questioned there for sexual behavior and very important for all who donate blood, whether queer or nonblood, to feel comfortable with blood transfusions and to have no discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. This, however, is an examination of sexual behavior as a number of dangerous factors. Regarding blood transfusion or quality, risk factors for the six 19th State Policy, foreign policy highlighting the rights of gay people, I believe that the Icelandic government on a global scale is well qualified to speak the case of queer people or to emphasize it when they speak about human rights. We would have had women's rights at the top of our international presentation when it comes to human rights. This is a group of paintings of gay people's rights in the world. They're really well, we're in the leading part of the world where they're most respected and I don't have to start tracking what it's like. The status of these people is in many parts of the world, and it is important that Iceland speak its voice there and they have Iceland. Governments have taken place in the United Nations Human Rights Council, and I have read articles such as the New York Times and other large newspapers that it is Iceland, as it is called in English, the plague of both forces. It is that we are really our voice, strong in this regard when we were with this remarkable advice. For e.g. The situation of people in the Philippines and other lands, and we certainly have that advice again. Then we could speak the council's language, get such a deal. When it is mentioned, a well-funded layman, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir was asked about the budgets, whether it's true, financed, and we're both going to sit on a budget, and we're going to try our best in terms of financing, and I think this is the State's case after a government operation program and that the state is to finance, not to give up, not to this bite, on the economy. The report says, with the permission of the president: Inverse community, Iceland, little and in many respects sensitive to gayness. People deserve respect, protection, and increased rights, and they need protection and increased rights. The battle of gay people, as if of other equality struggles, is in constant evolution and ends late or never. Quotation complete. I agree with that, and I also believe that these are as all other rights battles to sustain it, and I rejoice that all the committees have undergone a change but that we all agree on these changes in the study of queer people in their suffering, feeling queer poverty, elderly, elderly, and I think there's a lot to make an assessment of this group's position and look at social factors and goals for equal status, the elderly in society. As the report shows, these older people today are that the people who were in their court struggle actually broke the wall, and it is important to examine their status today and to be treated with dignity and, especially, that this is a time of age that should be enjoyed in all ways. Gay people have come to others who would, also believe that important changes in proposals. There is an assessment of the world's well - being of people in the country. I'm in my own country, national district, and this is quite like the spells in the country, but in Reykjavík you can't disappear in the crowd, you live in this town, and I really hope that this operation will be carried out on behalf of queer people, preferably by queer people, and will increase the discussion of the state of queer people, both in the country and in the state of the desperate, queer microbehavioral and elderly. It's in here, too, in here in numbers, for example. As to the agriculture mentioned earlier this evening and the fishing grounds, it is important to reach all aspects of society and other factors that are relevant to the fact that it is also about the presence of queers in Icelandic society, visible in the discussion and visible in most areas of society. I don't intend to keep these words longer for the time, anyway, but I believe this transition will be carried out and the case will be approved, and hopefully these queer people will be made up of the country and enough money will be made to make sure that this operation will be done well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u120	Jurscs, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir. A respectable president. I just wanted to thank you right at the end. Council members who have addressed this issue and agree with every word about the importance of the seminary and the importance of the fact that both of us here are, but not as much as those who work in the county, are wearing these glasses in their actions, and I think this strategy is a very important step in those activities. I'd like to take special note of the point that Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, boy. A senator, mentioned earlier on a recent talk that had been in the media about the well - being of gay youths. It was shocking to hear and hear the stories of young people. I'd like to commend these young men who are all heroes, to be on TV and here and tell about their experience, and then I'd also like to commend the media for making the rest of us think about these matters, and I think it's also part of this very thing that we, when this is the case exactly what is happening, will be done by that news, and it will bring us both parents but common citizens in this country to think that it doesn't feel as important as we feel about building up this equal society. Then I just want this link to point out the exact action to Dot No. 7 Regarding the well - being of gay children and young people in school, the study of gay children in the school system is to be conducted, and they will be integrated in the research and well - being of schoolchildren, and they will be able to work on improvements based on the results and these. This is especially important, but in view of these reports, it makes you think even more important. That is also the goal of No. 6 Reminds us of educational material regarding the status of gay children and young people, sports, hobbies, and youth also come to this point. A senator mentioned. So I want to thank you for this discussion, and that's exactly what happened. paritaprevir Katrín Frirduk's Friðriksson, we like to be the best equal, the world's society. It's part of our foreign policy, like what? Ármannsson We've been proud to be the society where equality is the most and that's also true of gay issues. So people are not just between these traditional men and women, but all of us, and we are to be on the lead. And then I'd also like to take advantage of the opportunity I've used here so many times that when we senators go abroad, we should take advantage of opportunities to talk about these matters, stressing what we've spoken in our foreign policy, which is exactly equal. And this plan of action should be in order to bring us even closer to ensuring equality here for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u121	Madam President. I recommend here on behalf of the 1st minority of the General and Education Committee on a bill to correct a change in the law of equal care regardless of race or ethnic background, with 85 from 2018 increase in differences between factors. The first part of memory was dedicated to the fact that the past was at the meeting where the matter was taken out, but now it is not to blame. Now. The bill suggests adding additional differences to law No. 85/2018, regardless of race or ethnic background. The law now applies to equal treatments of individuals regardless of race or ethnic background in all areas of the community outside the workplace, but it is suggested to add laws, differences, beliefs, philosophy, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, and gender expression. This adjustment is made in accordance with provisional regulations in law No. 85/2018 where it is recommended that the force of the law be replaced, so that there are others. Discrime factors consistent with the workforce of the fixed labour market law, cremation. Law No. 86/2018, is suggested to change the law's name on equal treatment outside the labour market. Now. A general and educational committee has discussed the matter and received a meeting of guests and received reviews, and it is reported in a committee study, following the Commission's discussion of the matter, that the first part of the article should be considered separately. The committee discussed this as a fundamental course. Let all be equal in law and enjoy human rights regardless of sex, religion, belief, ethnic background, race, lifestyle, economics, family status, and otherwise status. 1.mg. 65. g. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144. In addition to this principle in the Icelandic government, there has been a reason to establish a law against discrimination against certain groups in order to emphasize their equal treatment in all areas of society and to grant discrimination to individuals who feel that they are subject to the stated differences the possibility of seeking their rights to the decision-making committee. The Committee's review provided a view that it might eventually change which groups will experience discrimination in the community. As a result, there may be reasons to review or evaluate at regular intervals the conflicting reasons mentioned in the bill. By specifying that there are differences, however, it is made tangiblely which individuals are being protected and given increased legal rights to protect. Intensification of treatment is not required on the basis of the differences in parameters taken by the bill in some cases. As assessed by differences, comparison with other individuals under comparable circumstances is emphasised and whether they achieve comparable treatments. If this is not the case, different treatments need to be justified in a grammatical way with a legitimate objective. The first reminder emphasizes that each event must always be determined on the basis of differences. The Committee suggested the importance of consultation with disabled persons because of legal advice on their rights. While the specific circumstances of disabled persons may need to be considered, discrimination against disabled persons may be different from those of other groups, also defined in the bill. At the same time, it was stated that with the bill an important step is taken in implementing the European legislation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people in terms of equality and the prohibition of discrimination. The first smaller section agrees with these views and the importance of careful consultation and active participation in the interests of disabled persons in preparing legislation for their interests. The bill is a step in the right direction in ensuring the protection of individuals from discrimination, but in this context, the first smaller part also refers to the establishment of the Agency in the Government Treaty. Then the Committee discussed the importance of observing the effects of the law on rural society and whether this results in increased expenses or measures for them, such as those linked to relevant legislation. The first minor part points out that the bill report shows that, considering whether an administration is too burdensome should be viewed as a financial cost and scope. It is clear that it is available when the law of No makes a large duty to rural society. 38/2018, with long - term needs and the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people who have been valid in Iceland. Part one of my memory believes that with the bill it is to ensure the important interests of individuals who have experienced various forms of discrimination in the community. The importance of equalizing these groups cannot be overlooked. Madam President. To balance treatment regardless of race or ethnic background is an important matter of great importance. Notes have been made that include is torn in the opinion of another and of the 3rd smaller points that need further explanation. It is therefore suggested that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee after the second discussion for further implementation by the Committee, but under the definition of the signature as well as the one listed here. Councilmen, Jódís Skúladóttir, Hilda, Iða Gísladóttir, and Má Jónsdóttir Jónsdottir
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u122	Madam President. We here discuss a bill to legalise a change in the law of equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background. 85, 2018. A paper with the bill we are discussing here, with the permission of a president: A law on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background No. 85/2018 subject to equal treatment in all areas of the community, regardless of race or nationality, with equal treatment outside the workforce of the law, including Social protection, such as in the context of social security, education, and public access to products and services. This bill suggests that we are law No. 85/2018 will be added to discrimination as factors, beliefs, principles, disability, age, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, gender characteristics, and gender expression. This adds to the above discrimination is a factor in the pre -existing differences between the factors, race, and ethnic background. Quote: The aim of current legislation on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background is to counteract discrimination and establish and maintain the equal treatment of individuals independent of race and ethnic background in all areas of the community outside the workforce. However, other laws regarding this had proved to be of little value in counteracting discrimination on the grounds of race and ethnic background. In my opinion, this bill doesn't make it better. Then, in many ways, I feel that the matter will be unconcerned and will be referred to to in support of the following points but first to the benefit of existing laws to achieve the previously proposed goals. 2.g. The law of the law, as it is now their goal to counteract discrimination and establish and to maintain the equal treatment of individuals regardless of race or ethnic background in all areas of society. Sv. 7. Every form of discrimination in every aspect of society, whether direct or indirect because of race or nationality, is prohibited. The guidelines for racial or national discrimination are also considered to be discrimination under the law as well as harassment. When related to racial or ethnic harassment, the fourth factor is defined in Article 3. The law of the law, which insinuates what is happening to her, and has the purpose or effect of displeasing the person, especially when behavior leads to an threatening, humiliating, or insulting circumstance. Four years have passed since these laws went into effect, and they have never been tested. I never repeat. Hv. paritaprevir Björn son Leví asked the prime minister how many times he had been fined for a violation of the law, which contains a penalty. The answer, with the permission of the president, was: As far as the Ministry is concerned, the legal statute in the courts has not yet been tested. Quotation complete. Prime Minister's response also shows that since the implementation of the law on October 1, 2018, there is no legal issue that will be taken into the treatment of the Commission of Equal Opportunities. There was no discussion on the General and Education Committee where I sit, which raised my concern that the same reasons that forced people to approach the Committee to begin with discrimination in the sense of the law are the reasons why people are leaving there again, and there is nothing to be taken away from this case I fear that there will be language problems and that the government's lack of knowledge of the need for a solution to them. Lack of cultural sensibilities and stereotypes suggests that people who want to seek justice will rise to the wrong place or simply turn away. Either there is no racistity in our community, no discrimination, no harassment on the grounds of race or nationality, or there are serious offenders in the implementation of these laws. In view of this, Prime Minister will answer the Leví. I then asked for another Björn. It was as follows: The first question was how many people turned to the Committee of Equal Opportunities for possible violations of the law from their implementation to today's day, and what was their outcome? The second question was: What counsel do the people who come to the jury regarding violations of the law have? Third question: Get persons who come to the Committee because of a violation of the law, an interpreter, and/or other assistance to file charges with the Committee. All these questions remain to be answered. All these questions are important and important to answer these questions before we increase differences because other differences may be expected to lead to a need for some support or assistance in seeking justice in violations of the law. So I come to the parts of the bill that I consider following a discussion of the case in the General and Education Committee not sufficiently thoughtful and which are the reason for my proposal to return the case to the government for further consideration. 1.mg. current track. 1.mg. 7. Every form of discrimination in every area of society, outside the labour market, is prohibited either directly or indirectly because of race or ethnic background. According to the second sentence of 1.mg. 7. The law is also a reference to discrimination due to race or ethnic background as well as harassment when associated with race or ethnic background in the b-dr. the bill we're discussing here is presented to change the fourth quarter of Article 3. The law of the term harassment which I brought here earlier, where the punishment of the act at 1st. 7. The law. The difference of harassment is redefined. With the change, the punishment of conduct under the law will be any act that has the purpose or effect of displeasing the individual and creating situations that are threatening to humiliate or offend the individual when it relates to any of the differences mentioned. In my opinion, this resurgence of the term harassment involves dilatation of the more punishable practice that can result in an even worse degree of service to its purpose than it has done so far on the discrimination and factors in the law. Right away. In the current picture, the 4th chapter of each section is Article 3. The law. This definition of harassment, too uncertain with regard to the requirement for the clarity of the legal warrants set out at 69 C.E. The Constitution will be made up of all the different aspects of the bill that are suggested. If penalties are not clear enough, it cannot be based on punishment that, in my opinion, reduces the likelihood that the bill will achieve its objective. In the handling of the case of the committee, several possible cases were discussed. It is whether certain behaviours would be judged by the law and in any way the answers obtained were not clear, unfortunately, and the view that this would be reflected in the interpretation of the law. This did not reduce my concern about the clarity of penalties, the one that the law involves, and I believe this evidence that the law is not well thought of. In my opinion, there is also a lack of detailed coverage of the effect of adding to the differences, the factors, beliefs, and outlook on life at 1 mg. 1st par. The law. This effect should especially be considered in the light of law No. 43 from 2015 who changed the general law of penalties in a way that removed 125 g. a general penal law against blasphemy. In my opinion, it is unclear whether the uptake of these different factors, beliefs, principles in the law of No. 85/2018, which we are discussing here, would have the effect, in effect, on the prohibition against blasphemy, as it was interpreted, or in some other way taken back in some form. Then it is unclear whether or not the bill is intended to implement such a ban, but it may be that Europe has one by one in recent years removed such laws from its penalties. Iceland did 2015 on a paper with the bill we're discussing here. These adjustments are referred to the Directive of the Council of Ministers of the European Parliament No. 2043/EC of 29 June 2000 on equal therapy regardless of ethnicity or ethnicity. In that decree, the differences between the factors, beliefs, and outlooks were not made but, rather, races, nationalities on which the current law is based. So European legislation will go beyond what is expected in the directive. In that respect, I consider a reference to the directive in the report a little misleading. In Danish rights the directive was introduced without the addition of discrimination, the belief in life, and the reading of the bill is unclear how it would be used, e.g. When two distinct differences and factors meet, such as religious beliefs that are contrary to the rights of queer people who are also a new feature of discrimination according to the bill. Whether the law would lead to the obligatory interfaith of gay individuals or whether certain expressions or actions of queer people would be deemed to be punished if individuals of a particular religion felt offended by this. These questions were not made clear enough in my opinion by the Commission since the legislation on equal treatment regardless of race and ethnic background went into effect the laws we are here to try to change they have never been tested for the Social Affairs of Equal Opportunities. Again, it is my opinion that the laws in the present form, which are clear and good, have not reached their goal. In my opinion, the usefulness of adding other factors before improving the picture is unclear. For the reason and for the reasons mentioned above, I have made my suggestion that the case will be referred back to the government for further consideration and development. That'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u123	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. She was about a lot of interesting things, and I'd like to ask her about the question of Bjöl Leví's inquiry whether I didn't notice if there was any case that couldn't handle all of this, but was some of the cases dismissed, though there's another question I'd like to ask about, which I find very special in this law, it's the government's opinion to perform the law of these things says at 4. Article 3 of the Treaty (in the United States), with President's permission: Management of the implementation of these laws, including with management, the role of an emissary in monitoring the act of the law, including a warrant for a day's application with a case of equal rights and including a court order of charges. It is also a problem that the original law stated: "This procedure is under the law of criminal treatment, and it is now referred only to as a violation of the laws of the law or regulations according to those laws, which have to do with guilt unless there is a greater penalty according to other laws. What I find hard to understand in all of this is, why not just be put into the penalties and the things, e.g. The law of hate speech here has so been, as the senator noted regarding the term harassment. It speaks of threatening behavior. I would have thought that the threat of demeaning conduct, that such a law should be punished, law, and not of this law. What I don't understand about it, too, which says that only borrows what this lawsuit does to the Ministry of Presidency, I just can't get it. Why isn't the Justice Department? We need to do some mountain work here, but there are other groups being added with the ethnic background in a hate speech, and it's about penalties, and now these laws are involved. But that's a whole different department. It's a completely different approach. I would have thought I'd be living in the same place in the government, as well as in the justice system of the D.A.P.A.P.A., special fines.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u124	Hv. 11th. Smoke. So, Kristínardóttir Anna Kristtardótttir Gunnarsdóttir. Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Eyjólfur's Ármannsson economist for the counter-sponsion. The interest in my speech and questions. This was not evident in the answer as a matter of course. paritaprevir Leví question was, How many had gone to the Commission of Equal Opportunities? It was suggested in my answer that the request had been received to an economist about the law, and it was of interest to me that it shows that individuals who have been consulted in an equal rights lab have, among other things, been contacted. When referred to theJustice Committee of Equal Opportunities, it raises questions as to why they are involved, so it is. Therefore, I saw reason to follow this up with further questions, so I ask my first question to the prime minister, so I ask: "How many people turned to the Committee of Equal Opportunities from the beginning from the execution of the Law and what their outcome was. There I am endeavoring to find a clear answer to the head whether there is any registration on the behalf of the Commission, without the fact that there will be some issue because, as I told them, the answers of the Ministry and the discussions of the General and Education committee raised my concern that there may be a possibility of dismissing people because it may not and cannot, which is naturally just terrible, since it is the course of this law designed to prevent and eliminate differences based on the current legalities, nationalities and race. Only in order to address it as a dog. A senator mentioned some form of administrative therapy here. I think these laws are very good. They are particularly as if they are protected from discrimination on the grounds of race and nationality, and I think they are very positive that there are some administrative means of discrimination due to discrimination and harassment and otherwise to which people can look because criminal charges are always much more important than being in the hands of the government rather than being in the hands of the public rather than in the hands of people. So the mind behind all of this is something that makes it not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u125	And yes, no, it gives an answer. paritaprevir Eyjólfur's Ármannsson. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer I find in this matter, so I'll just say it right now. They look at the definition of harassment, some behaviors related to race, ethnic background, religion, philosophy, philosophy, etc. and behaviour that has the purpose or the effect of displeasing the individual or creating situations that are threatening hostile, humiliating, or insulting in parentheses, but the threatening incorrigibly humiliating behavior toward another person is a form of harassment. Shouldn't it be a punishment to be on the authority of the people to represent each administrative committee? It should then be determined whether or what to fine the person if someone is being threatened by hostile behavior. I think we have entered the hatred debate scene. I know that behavior can also be words and actions, but it brings us here. We have a penal law, a terrible hatred speech if conduct outside the language is a threat. It must be the same in the laws of this, the penalties of which are then, as we are speaking in hateful words. I can't see that I at least, I don't know examples from abroad, may well be completely misunderstood, but it happens to a administrative committee. What then judges the day's fines will bring in the lawsuit and fines. There's something I'm not quite seeing. I think it's been a lot when I was influenced by this in my justice system. But it would be nice to hear a loud voice. A senator's particular behavior, which is clearly close to hatred, conduct, or hatred speech, which is threatening hostile humiliation. I think it's a very serious behavior that would belong to the justice system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u126	One or two. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristirdóttir Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. Madam President. Thank you. A senator again before the conversation. I agree that even the occurrences of these laws into this process and then only into the penalties where we also have regulations to deal with this social ill and we were. In fact, we have been making changes in their lives here at this assembly also in an effort to improve their effectiveness, and these laws have also been criticized. They are not being carried out in an adequate way to protect people from this discrimination and harassment and violence. I'm sorry, then. Then I fear that these problems with these laws, these inexplicability and that these laws have not been sufficiently carried out. I'm worried that the law is meant to make the impression that we're fighting this social ill without being in touch with enough mind, much work, and of course it's going to get a little farther. It won't work. This is certainly a message in the community, but it makes sense that there must be some means to respond when such things occur, and I agree with the senator that this is unclear and that it could possibly be. One of the reasons behind these laws is used in ways that are not used, not carried out. I just want to thank you. A senator for bringing this up, and me. Sadly, these laws are a concern, and it is obvious that they have not yet served their purpose. I'm worried that it won't change with the changes we're doing now unless it's less.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u127	General and Education Committee, what? 6th. Witchest. "Eyjólfur of the Ármannsson's son. A respectable president. I bring here the opinion of the 3rd reminder of the General and Education Committee on bill to correct the change in equal treatment laws regardless of race or national origination no. 85/2018. The growth of discrimination factors. The bill suggests that we are law No. 85/2018 will be added to different factors, doctors, doctors, beliefs, alive examinations, disability, age, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, gender characteristics, and gender expression. This means that the law will be changed not only for equal treatment of an individual regardless of race or nationality but also for whatever faith, principles, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender, awareness of sexual characteristics or gender in all areas of the community outside the work market. Seven. The law of the law says even. that any discrimination in all areas of society, outside the labour market, whether directly or indirectly due to race or open ethnic background is prohibited, as well as a law on equal management of the labour market. In the 3rd. The bill is required for a change of Article 3. The law where there's any explanation. It suggests that the term harassment will be defined according to the following definition: harassment of the behavior related to race, nationality, religion, philosophy, disability, age, sexual orientation, sexual awareness, gender characteristics, or sexual expression of what is happening to it, and that has the purpose or effect of displeasing the individual or creating situations that are threatening to humiliate or insulting the person. If the bill is legal, the term will fall under the term the year for conduct related to faith and, therefore, a religion, a sense of faith, and a religious life. This change leads to a course of behavior that is related to the religion of the individual and that has the purpose or effect of displeasing the individual and creating a situation that is threatening a hostile humiliation or insulting to the person who is the object of the rights to faith and religion as the protection of the law. The purpose of harassment is to abuse the individual's respect or create circumstances because of the faith of an individual who is created in the definition of the Sif - inspiring hostile, etc. The ban on blasphemy in the 125th C.E. Is It Wrong to Revenge? No. In 2015, 19/110, the law was suspended in 1900. The article describes the act of penalists, spoken in everyday speech as blasphemy, as follows, by permission of a president: Anyone who is officially attracted to, or dishonors, the religious or religious beliefs of a legal organization that is in this country, shall be guilty or imprisoned up to three months, should only be wronged by the prosecutor. A statement concludes with what it means exactly to admire or taunt religious doctrines or worship by a legal religion depended on an assessment each time and only on courts to set matters straight in 1940. In 1984 judgment in the Supreme Court fell, with one opinion of 25. Penalties, but the judgment is taught by a magazine mirror. The court said, with President's permission, the 125th Amendment of the Protection Act. The law of penalties is believed in people's feelings, the right to keep them in peace is to discuss the religious teachings or worship of a legal religion. Sixty-three. The constitution. The document concludes: The judgment indicates that it is a punishmental way. It was considered criminal conduct to taunt the faith and spirituality of people as protected in the religious principles of the Constitution that the action did not bring in any contribution for a objective discussion. In a paper with the bill that changed as an act of blasphemy in the recent year of 2015, where it was dismissed, the President's permission included the freedom of expression is one of democracy's cornerstones. It is fundamental in free society that the public can express themselves without fear of any kind of punishment, whether by government or by other sources. And also, by permission of the President, we say: This bill suggests the removal of the law. People have a different view of life, so they are expected to have language that one would normally consider offensive. Happily, the experiences of people in life and life are very different. It is entirely unrealistic, therefore, to want to worry about human thoughts with feelings and opinions to always fit within the bounds of so - called general well - being. Quotation is over. Clearly, the abuse of a person's respect for religion and the creating of situations that are threatening hostile, humiliating or insulting to the person because of faith, as is the definition of harassment in the bill. The vote is for the same protection interest as the 125th grade. a general penal law against blasphemy. So here the prohibition against blasphemy is being taken back into law in part or in all respects. The law of the law, from 2015 onward, also restricts the freedom of expression, which was added to the law against blasphemy. It is fundamental in free society that the public can express themselves without fear of any kind of punishment, whether by government or by others. It is not discussed in the bill that the ban against blasphemy is again under ban by saying that it is forbidden to act in a way that describes a word of harassment. This shows that the bill is not working well enough and pondered on the above points, and I would also like to point out that in these legislation, this law of changing laws on equal treatment, regardless of race or nationality, does not depend on the prosecutor's suit. It explains, as noted in earlier discussions, that this is prior to an equal committee, and that is what the matter is resolved so that it is not the same as I agree with what happened. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Kristínardóttir's Gunnarsdóttir, that the warrants are unclear, that all the work is somewhat vague. I believe this law, as revealed in her case, that there is no law that will not be, has not tried this. I don't think it'll be somebody, there'll be a lot of things that would come out of place that would be normal, compared to those that are behind them, where they're trying to deal with people not being harassed outside the workplace. There are certain very important protection benefits that would normally be in the justice system and then under the prosecution. But it is in my mind that the prohibition against blasphemy is being introduced here again. I also think it concerns freedom of expression, the insulting behavior that it is designed to fail. The term harassment is clearly a limit to freedom of expression. I believe, however, that the terror of the hostile, humiliating, that it is subject to, not insulting conduct. It cut freeness of expression, as is so clearly stated in the report that I read here with the 2015 law against blasphemy. I believe freedom of expression would have to be a much more intense discussion of freedom of expression in the bill when dealing with this group and also about the regulations of hate speech in the penitentiary where the concept of the year harassment also covers a threatening hostile, humiliating behavior. We find ourselves in the area of a hate speech, and here we speak of conduct, but speech is also a form of conduct and conduct that is a hatred of any behavior it might be, no matter what it may be, even in penalties. Finally, I'd like to point out what I also believe is important if the bill is to become a law that promises to equal treatment, regardless of race and ethnic background, will become a law on equal treatment outside the workforce, cr. 1 1. The bill. By doing so, there will be two U.S. legislation on equal treatment of people, on the other hand on equal treatment of a labour market, No. 86/2018, on the other hand, even treatment outside the labour market, No. 85/2018. I don't think it's appropriate to be law with the same name, two layers with the same name, and I believe that it must be laid, and that's the same law that is in both laws. I believe it has to be established whether these laws are providing the same legal protection as if they are being given the same legal protection. What is death and makes two things legal rather than just one person equal to one person's treatment, whether it's outside or within the labour market or legalized, and if other laws, e.g. law on equal management outside the labour market, or do they provide better legal protection than the labour market law? Why is this so, and why? What evidence is behind this? This needs to be explained in the bill, but I think that the whole matter should be considered on both laws. It is very important that there is similar protection, both inside and outside the workforce, no evidence of discrimination. Otherwise, I just want to thank you for your cooperation with the Committee on this matter, and I really believe that. I refer to it, as the chairman of the case referred back to a committee, and I believe it is important that this case return to the committee for further discussion and may even be put in better shape for the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u128	I want to reiterate that with this bill, the prohibition against blasphemy is not being introduced. It's not the lawgiver's will. That is not what this bill says, and this article should not be interpreted in this way. I'm gonna, a respectable president, I've asked to establish a rosary and go over my position on this matter, but I just want to say it as the chairman of the Committee, and we took this case for a considerable consideration because it may be so interesting when we discuss such a different ways, basic human rights, that we're a little able to go in circles, and it's true that there's one speaker, if you wonder whether it could be this arrangement could be interpreted in a way that it would be forbidden to blaspheme if it were to return to the law. And it's not that we're thinking about it and we're going over it, we got some good definitions from the Ministry of Presidency, and I think it's just so important to keep it in mind that we're talking about a vital protection from the discrimination of people because of their beliefs and beliefs. That's what this bill is all about. Hv. A senator also spoke of the fact that, yes, we have a law on such protection within the labour market, and there are laws that were passed here a while ago, and then this discrimination was part of what religion and principles are inside that much more emphasis and more important, it is also in the laws that run outside the labour market. So I just respect it. A senator wants them to come together into one law, and it may well be that there's a view just that it's not the situation today, so we've been hiding what I'm saying, surely, we shouldn't discriminate against people based on faith and belief and belief, and we've introduced it. In the labour market prices laws, we may not only do so in the legal code involved in these different aspects of a job market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u129	That's when the counter-respect answer is "what" is answered. paritaprevir Eyjólfur's Ármannsson. A respectable president. I reasoned here that the prohibition against blasphemy was being introduced again. There is absolutely reason for this to be removed when the law was taken away at the time of 20. 125. g. The penalties were removed to be spoken of as not to offend people because they believed in an expression. Let's just read it directly, with president's permission: With the bill, it's suggested that the law be taken away. People have a different view of life. Thus, an expression that one would naturally consider to be another insulting quote ends in the term harassment. Stress is not about people's equal status. It's not about equal treatment. Stress is harassment. This is a term defined in the Law, and it discusses insulting conduct on the basis of faith. It is absolutely crystal clear if you read the bill and read its definition of harassment or behavior as a result of the behavior associated with religion and the person who becomes involved and has the purpose to do so or the effect of displeasing the individual and creating an environment that is threatening to humiliate or insulting to the person for the sake of faith is forbidden by the law. It's in the law. Is it forbidden to offend people because of religion, or were they accused of being offended? That's exactly what was being done when banning blasphemy and considering my discussion I wasn't at the meeting that the Ministry of Presidency was doing well. I want to get a written legal opinion that it wasn't being done. I've given some good reasons to do that in the written case of a committee. I haven't seen anything written since the Ministry of Presidency, that's what I think, and it's also stated in Committee 2. smaller sections that this is, for example, part. not in the Danish law, and there's nothing to say that you should be just committed to it, and I believe that there's a very specific matter in my mind that if you ever trust a law, which is very unlikely that you will just have to doubt it, in comparison with the history of the layman, you're going to enter a prohibition against the blasphemy, you have to do it. At the declaration of the law, it's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u130	Explain the answer to the second one. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís will begin. Yeah. A respectable president. I think it's gonna be all right. Here, the challenge is on the basis of faith or belief, when, over and over again, because in a particular religion, it can fall to these laws that we are discussing here. But to me it's having blasphemy is to make fun of what people believe. There is a known choice in France about the comic films. There was blasphemy in those definitions. It's not against the law. We live here with freedom of expression, freedom of speech, and freedom of speech, and people may have God, whatever he may be, of us who believe it as a ridicule but who ridicule people on the basis of faith. That's discrimination, and that's what we're dealing with. But otherwise, I'm going to review my viewpoints on the bill all right here in a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u131	Then the answer to the second one answers, "What? " paritaprevir Eyjólfur's Ármannsson. A respectable president. For making fun that you don't really pay blasphemy. It must not necessarily be a joke to believe people's feelings if they are a good solution to a joke, and they are very specific in the judgment on the subject here in the mirror. It states that I argued earlier: The judgment may be counted as a punishment of dishonoring people's faith and religious life. Yes, it is just as the terms of harassment are humiliating. I can relate to these taunts of religious people as well as to dealing disparagingly with religious people, as well as to humble people, to be humble, to be humble in conduct, or to speak out on account of religious people because of their faith. That exactly the same mirrored him completely clear, this entirely out in the faith and basis of the judgment against the prohibition against the blasphemy that was at the time, so that I completely agree with it, and even that is being extended more, it will also be an assembly. You can also offend a person because of his faith. I think blasphemy forbidds blasphemy, that did not involve insulting behavior, and that limites the fact that the term offensive is offensive when harassment occurs. It is to restrict people's freedom of expression, the right to offend. I know they're discussing this abroad, even in communities today, that the expression is to limit your freedom of expression so you weren't allowed to offend anyone. There is much to it that people can only express their thoughts about simple things. I have reasoned on this matter, and I believe that the committee's opinion as it stands stands totally in its place. I have not received any objections from the Ministry of Presidency or any other legal opinion that says this is not a prohibition against blasphemy. So I'd appreciate further discussion on this matter, as I've tried to draw attention to both the members of the committee and the magazine articles, and I believe this is a very important discussion, especially from the freedom of expression, and I think it's discussion about not allowing people to offend as we speak. As the report also says. Since something is insulting, the other person does not view himself as insulting, even speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u132	The answers are complete. Takes it. 6th. We're out of Suðvest. "Berry Haraldsdóttir? A respectable president. Yes, we'll talk here that I know a very important thing, and I'd like to know that I approve and accept it even though my name isn't on the committee, but it was so painful that I wasn't present when the case was taken out, and that's why my name isn't there, but I support it. We've been through a fairly detailed case in a global and educational committee, got a number of guests, got quite a good statement, and had my very good conversations about this subject. I'd also like to assume that when we were discussing the matter, I had overlooked that one reason why we have this case right here from the Ministry of Presidency is that the Council appointed prime minister to bring exactly this kind of law into the council. So it was that on June 8, 2018, at the time, the current conduct, of the World Health and Education Committee, issued a bill for equal treatment regardless of race and nationality, as well as the sole legal basis for a minister to be irrespective of faith, vitality, disability, sexual orientation, sexuality, sexual characteristics and gender in all areas of the community outside of the work market, according to law on equal treatment and under the committee Guðmundur's opinion of Thorsson, Willum, ÞórEinarsson Þórsson, Andrés, Steindór Valdimarsson Sunna, and Ævarsdóttir. I believe it is important to assume that the reason why this bill is here is exactly this, this adjustment proposal that was made clear, as a clear will was passed by the then superior and educational committee. But we are, of course, new committees, and new senators have a lot of freedom to have different opinions than the ones before them, and I have full respect for them, and I respect their views. A senator moved here earlier, even though I may disagree with them. I would also like to respond only to what was presented here in a talk in my second part of the conversation. Arndís IAnna K., I'm Gunnarsdóttir. I'm sorry. A senator, who was talking about the lack of profit from discrimination. I don't think it's perfectly fair because it is now a relatively new law, that when it went into effect in September 2018, it is a relatively new law, and therefore it may not be time to make the claim that the law has not achieved its goals. Then I'd like to reiterate that when we're talking about such law columns, it's one thing to change the law like that. One is the slave, the education, and the social discussion and culture that have to develop subsequently, so I think we need to be a little more patient in seeing results from the law, the bones that can be spoken and I mean. You can refer, e.g. the position of experience on sex performance laws equal to the rights of the sex over the years. There has been ongoing development of that law, and we have achieved it. In my opinion, it's taken way too long and we're still on that road. But we have truly been successful, and as noted earlier, it has not been observed in the Justice Department of Equal Opportunities on these factors, but it has been observed if there are written cases in their filing systems and they have received inquiries and to the equal court on this matter. It was also fine earlier, and it was part of our conversation with an ecstatic firm just as necessary for them to become better familiar with it, and the Ministry of the Presidency has said that there is a tendency to get into trouble in this regard. For this, the increase in these differences is a factor. Then, for example, a respectable president, one of my first questions in this regard. Are we not just trying to complicate matters and possibly make our Constitution and the prohibition against discrimination against them? Is being reduced by certain factors, and there are people who have reasoned that there is no need to specify the differences in legislation, since there is a difference, just a general crisis, excuse, Mrs. President, which makes us feel that we already have this journey. We've turned the law around here into a labour market where we've decided these different factors. We have also increased the differences in these legislations on which we deal here, but there is a lack of certain discrepancies in the other law, so to me this is the most clear evidence that the law is comparable, the differences listed in these factors. In view of the fact that we are in the process of listing these factors, they need to be comparable. Regarding the conversation we had in some of the past in opposition, this is the term harassment. The bill on the increase of the loss - related factors we are discussing here will only deal with harassment if the behavior is associated with the disability or sexual orientation of the person involved. As if by now the law, the harassment related to race and the national background of what happens to her so that the concept is challenged in the law. But we're growing the differences, so I'm going back. I don't understand why it wouldn't be the same thing. We may place some differences in the level of harassment, and then it's nice to keep it in mind in less cases as people, where people feel that they are wronged in accordance with these laws, they would go to the Commission and after possible court cases that would determine it. But harassing someone is different from having someone or making fun of something. It's a constant harassment, and I really feel that today's community talk is a little bit of a hint. We were discussing a plan of action on the affairs of gay people, and there was a particular situation or, as it were, the well - being of young, gay young people who feel that they are being harassed. It's not just because someone once makes fun of their sexual orientation, it's constantly in the form of harassment on community media, harassment in conversations, so I think that the community and what we've seen to be going through conversation, but it shows us that it's really important that legislation be active and take into account what's best around us. Then I think I've been referred here for that. Right. This is not in the Danish discriminatory law, but it is in line with the Norwegian Swedish and Finnish parts that we would like to compare with. So, by agreeing to this bill, we are harmonizing these actions with what is listed in the labour market rights legislation and I think that is the most clear reason we should be accepting this. Second, we are fulfilling it. Rather, the provisional regulations or Ministers were experienced by the provisional regulations it was given in a committee party here from the 2014 General and Education Committee, and we are in line with the legislation surrounding us. It's in Norway, Sweden and Finland. This also said that there is reason to believe that a large number of human authorities have noted that there is a lack of comprehensive discrimination laws in Iceland. We have been counseled to establish a comprehensive law on prohibitions against discrimination, including in the last January 2022, issue of the UN Human Rights Council of Human Rights. The requirement for such legislation is due to a general law of equality found in various human rights agreements, including contracts for disabled people, international civil and political rights contracts, and treaties for economic, social, and cultural rights. This is more than a good reason why we'll settle this case here on this vacation or at this council before the assembly leaves on vacation. The speaker of the case suggested that the matter be brought back into a committee, which had developed in the light of the many smaller details that have been discussed. So I'm not opposed, and I expect us to take the matter back into the first consideration of the committee. I hope that what has been said in the discussion is that it is possible to make more peace with the matter, but if it is not, I respect the fact that people may have differing views and stress that I believe that it is important that we resolve this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u133	When the 11th. Reykv.. So, Mr. President, I thank the Honourable Chairman of the General and Education Committee for this speech and thank you for this conversation. A senator and an chairman may admit that it is only natural to have time for people to realize the existence, the law, and so forth. I understand those views. I don't think, however, that's the problem with the Ministry of Premier's inquiry and the answer to question. paritaprevir Bjarni of Björn Leví inquiring to the prime minister I mentioned in my speech earlier. I'll ask him even. whether the Minister thinks the purposes of the law will be met. In answer, the president said: One of the important factors in achieving success in the seminary is knowledge and education in order to increase public awareness of these issues as well as the legislation itself. Then individuals will need to know their rights and what options are available if they feel that they are wrong. In the autumn of 2018, an economist of interest stakeholders, including the representatives of the Multicultural Network, announced a presentation and a total of the equal treatment of individuals irrespective of race and ethnic background. At that site, stakeholders were encouraged to introduce their members and customers to the law and its purpose. In 2019 there were four formal meetings in the city ofnes, in Egls, Isafán, and Selephoss. The meetings were open to all, but representatives of rural society and businesses were specifically encouraged to attend the meeting and were then followed by a survey to see if members were familiar with their legal rights. In fact, the results of the tests are not revealed, they released an equal firm, the card grows. Differences in English, English, and Polish are forbidden in 2020. In 2021, an equal office held ten meetings with stakeholders, and I'm just picking out a few things. But for the sake of time, and here are other methods that were used to introduce the law, which I have. I'm sorry, but not entirely because of my feeling. It is based on the discussions we had, including. to the Ministry of Justice on the General and Education Committee, and I fear that people have been turned away from the Department of Education. Unfortunately, I fear for problems systematically, not for those who consider themselves to be a crime.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u134	A respectable president. I thank you for having a member of the council opposed. Hv. A senator feels that the matter has been turned away from the Committee on the charges. I don't have any information about it, so I can't express myself about it. But, hey. A senator doing just that, and I said it in my speech earlier that often takes time. In that example, I mentioned a name that included a law about the sexual rights of the sexes. I think, if I recall this story correctly, that Iceland has been with the first countries in the world to correct the legal environment and guarantee equality law. We know that when those laws were passed and even ten years later, equality was not achieved. Even today, we have not achieved equal justice, but we have achieved a lot of results, so if the senator's arguments are on the way that we shouldn't have it under law because we haven't reached it yet, then I disagree. I think we need to take these steps and put them in the law. But I can totally agree with that. Senator. The very presentation and enlightenment of their rights need to be done even more. It's very important. I think me and what. A senator agrees that equality is not achieved because discrimination is present in Icelandic society. People like that. ... andit'sso sad, and it's something we're supposed to join to do and fight for everyone's right to be respected and I think this case is one of the steps involved. But I'm not saying that we can just lean back in the chair and say, "Thank you, pat and ready for you. It won't be like that. It's not like that. Hv. 11th. Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u135	The Senator of the city of Reykjavík, south, and he gives an answer a second time. Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It's certainly not that I'm protesting that it's under law. I'm very much in favor of this law, and I mentioned earlier that the law as it is today, I just think it's very good. What worries me is that we're adding discrimination to factors that will even reduce the effectiveness of the law by the reasoning I mentioned earlier. I won't stand in the way of this case to make it clear. I'm glad, however, that it sounds like I'm getting the idea that the case will be reassigned to the General and Education Committee and we'll discuss this better. I just want to get a little touch on another point that came out of the question. paritaprevir It's Eyjólfur, Ármannsson of a year ago, and I agree with him. In this regard, this addition to belief and principles is in relation to the definition of the law of harassment. You see, it is possible for us to feel the other way, and we can put a certain understanding into the terms of the other person in this way. But as it happens, in the law harassment is very clearly defined in these laws, and it is said, by permission of a president: It is behavior that is indistinguishable to what happens to her and has that purpose or effect. It doesn't even need to be. It does not even have to be determined to abuse the individual's respect, especially when acting leads to a threatening hostile, humiliating, or insulting situation. In view of this clear definition of the law, I find it hard to see that what was once under the divine law would not fall under the law of justice. I'm glad it's not the point, and I'm glad again that we're going to consider this in a closer way, to the General and Education Committee, and suggest that we there discuss how this could be sharpened in some way so that it is clear what the Lawgiver's purpose in these terms really is. I truly welcome all laws intended to prevent discrimination on the basis of faith and principles.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u136	To keep it in place, huh? 6th. We're out of Suðvest. answers an answer to a second one. A respectable president. I'm glad we agree on that, and that's why I think we can agree that just because we're raising the differences, this law is in harmony with the law as they happen in a labour market, especially in view of the fact that this is exactly what the current General and Education Committee called. But now I know what to do. A senator knows a lot about this sect and is law-enforced so that I encourage her to bring me to that work if there is any reason to change the definition of harassment, if there's anything there that can make it clearer, because as I said before, there's no one willing to reenter the Icelandic law, forbid of blasphemy, not the meaning of this, but that it's harassing someone because of faith. There's something that we don't want to be there, and we want our laws to deal with it so that if there's a way to put an expression into terms that the definition is clearer, there's more to the jury or possible courts, if there's anything here, I'm just celebrating all such efforts. But I think we'd be in a worse position if we didn't agree to this. I heard it coming. A senator said, "I don't want to get in the way of things, because I think deep down. " One senator realized that this is a way to improve his rights, whether to do something better, to define even more clearly. Then I'm just celebrating tips on that, and especially if we could work on the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u137	Northwestern District, Eyjólfur of the Year's Ármannsson. A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, president of education, full of educational committees for his speech and a well - informed answer I'd like to ask him about. It's obvious that harassment is absolutely crystal clear. That is the second saying in page 7. The law on equal treatment regardless of race and ethnic background, that harassment is discrimination. Also, with the permission of the president: National or national discrimination guidelines are considered to be discrimination under the laws of those laws as well as the related harassment, and so is thought to continue. Stress differs, for it is also the year for one person, but there is no difference. It is quite obvious in the year of discrimination, and I restitute that the behavior of harassment has been viewed as humiliating, insulting, and hostile harassment. Behavior. It's harassment, and it's crystal clear, and I draw attention to it as a result of faith as a blasphemer. You're making a decision over the reproach that people have a year to put on their faith. It is humiliating, so it is quite remarkable that this is not being discussed in the bill. That's where my work on the bill shows this bill at the Presidency Department, and I can hardly remember anyone crying. Another bill that is going on about the ownership of the border, and other concerns about foreign investments were the most important, and this shows the practices on that town, and we got the story of a law firm in the city, very important things to do. They happened by chance. But I want to ask you why too. A member of the Parliament on how this is going to be legalized, however, will have laws for equal management in the labour market and on equal treatment outside the labour market. Are these laws giving the same legal protection? Is making the two decisions with the law, if there's a difference? What's the difference between justice protection in these laws? It has to be. I can't see that we're por favoring these legal bills here in this way from the Ministry of Presidency, that this weakness provides some kind of legal protection, bad laws, unexplained laws that are not used? They provide, not a misbehavior for right protection, but the right protection that we really are.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u138	Hv. 6th. We're out of Suðvest. the answer. Mr. President. Thank you. A senator again, and it's very interesting and fun to us into the Honorable General and Education Committee, and that's exactly where we're discussing things as far as real life is concerned. A senator came in here and I'm not sure that I quite understood the questions that were addressed to me. But I'm gonna take this opportunity anyway. A senator once again believes that it should be in the same law column, and I just say that I respect that view. The situation is that we have a work law on rights. These discrepancies are identified. That was done some time ago. Now I have this assignment in my arms as a senator and head of the General and Education Committee to the highest level. The prime minister is making these laws change so that they are comparable to justice or that they are similar to the discrepancies mentioned in these two layers, and I say, "Yes, thank you. " I think it's a very good idea that's very sensible. I think it's unwise to think that the law we're dealing with here outside the labour market is anything other than a labour market salary. I just think it's unsatisfactory, because the Honorable General and Education Committee at the time began to bring exactly this transformation as discussed here. To me, the challenge is as clear as it can be, otherwise we'd be talking about here the difference factors, and then the challenge, and less. It may be that there may be something clearer about exactly what is challenge. It's defined there, and I'm just saying, I'm open to ideas about changing it if people think it's any clearer. In fact, it has ceased to be in accordance with what is in other legislation, such as the law on rights within our friends, which has already been discussed, so that perhaps less, and therefore it is probably being used in this definition because it is in other laws, so I think that, in view of the position we are today, it will be more acceptable to this change. But, fortunately, we have three years to go in this terms, and we, on the Honourable General and Education Committee, can easily adopt these issues. If we feel the need for a change in these or other law columns on these subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u139	Columns about these matters are aglow. 6th. Witchest. "Answer a second time. Thank you. A senator for his answer. I have a suggestion. I suggest that we have one law on equal treatment of people outside and inside the labour market, in terms of equal treatment of people, in which these rights, these rights, were given one law, law, and so on. The use of this by law or by what it is that people are seeking their rights has not been found legally. It shows faster defects below. I believe that the General and Education Committee should send them messages to the Ministry of Presidency: Hey, this bill, we don't think this is going to be a law, and it's sent back, and we want to get laws as a total law on this legal hearing that we're dealing with, which I believe, is very important. I also believe, and it is my conviction that such legislation belongs at home in the Ministry of Justice, Justice, Their Ministry of Justice, but they have a legal sentence under the court where people are to seek justice, and I disagree that it is too complicated that these are legal cases and that they will be brought there. It can be much clearer, much better, according to a much better legal field. I think this arrangement with this law is that it's a problem with an In-Valid lab, it's kind of horny. That's all I can say. Maybe I'm not wrong. But I feel like I've been looking at this for myself now, but I wished I'd rather be divided than I'd just glad that here we can talk more about this in the Committee to refer this case to a committee and do it more later. But I also believe that it is important, and I hope that it will. A senator joins in with me, that the terror of hostile humiliating conduct. Since it is a form of hatred about verbal right - to - do rights, these definitions are widely available, and it would be nice to hear that freedom of expression is not allowing people the right to offend others, whether it is right to punish people for insulting speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u140	6th. We're out of here. answers an answer to a second one. A respectable president. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's very clear, and this bill is not supposed to interrupt it in any way. But harassment is something other than freedom of expression. But, hey. Senator, I have a better idea. We accept this bill now so that we can secure the same legal protection within and outside the labour market. Hv. In the summer, a senator is so concerned with whether it's a good idea to combine these two legal columns into one law code on the general rights of the people inside and outside the labour market, giving them a bill here in the fall. In case of a moment. A senator thinks it's a bit complicated what I imagine could be nice, bring a synonym where a professional minister is doing it, and then we can discuss it here at the council and on the General and Education Committee for the next winter but brilliant. A respectable president. I'm happy to hear what's going on. A senator with this idea I had here but it was overt. That's why I think it's much more important that we take care of this bill, which is why while it's not done, it's not exactly the right thing to do. The minor factors aren't the ones in these two laws on rights within and outside the labour market, and I finally think that I am. A senator would agree completely that it is normal for the same factors to be listed on both counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-06-09.u141	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for the resolution of the Western North American Council in 2021, and the committee has discussed the matter and received its meeting with Þóra Erina's Árnadóttir, president of the Western Norwegian Council, and a Bygl Bylgja the Year's Árnadóttir, secretary of the Icelands. The proposal challenges the government to work on the implementation of two of the Western Council approved at the September 1 meeting of the Council for increased Western cooperation in the environment and climate, No. 1/2021, and the cooperation of Western university on telecommunications, No. 2/2021. In the View of the Western Council, No. 1/2021, the Council calls for the three national environmental ministers to agree with a treaties, which include: will be required for the annual consultation of the Ministers. In those meetings, there was an opportunity to expand the Western cooperation and share the experience of solutions in the environment and climate. Now, in the Western Council's resolution, No. 2/2021, the Ministers of Education for Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands, to further cooperation with the three countries on university education using assistance, telecommunications, and technology. Increased telecommunication and experience with telecommunication over the past few years have completely altered the potential of inhabitants, busier areas to pursue a wide variety of university education. Now. Extremation can have a positive effect on the development of individuals, the home population, and the health of northern communities. In view of this, the Ministers of Education for the three countries are encouraged to consider the possibility of developing telecommunications in cooperation with a university in the three countries, and this committee suggests that this proposal will be adopted by Rafn Hurn Ólafsson, an audience. A member of the Committee is willing to accept this, and under the opinion of President Bjarni Jónsson, Birgir Þórarinsson, prominent historian Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Jóhann Friðður Friðriksson, Logi Einarsson, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Hv. Senators.
