ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u1	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk about the details of a little boatman. One of the largest costs of the present food system is the compression of the resources that has led to the loss of so many settlements around the country. Empathy also makes it difficult for a number of less fish to produce undesigned fish to get raw materials. This is where coastal fishing is of enormous importance, not just about the fact that huge numbers of jobs exist, but because of the high - quality resources that everyone can offer in a country. The present coastal fishing system is like a light in the dark as we look forward to seeing that the results of the present cry code, which would be the basis for the development of fish stocks all around the country, have not yielded the desired results. The current coastal fishing system is the only system in which there is no motivation for throwing fish or in some form of cheating. The problem with the coastal fishing system is mainly that governments have never lived up to the promise to provide enough resources in the system to complete the power of the 48 - day beaches. Hence, the decision of the present marine economist is a blow not only for the scattered seas but also for the fish industry that rely on this raw substance. Besides, at least the coastal fishing is the most eco-friendly fishing in the world. Therefore, the coastal fishing must continue, and so it must be ensured that enough resources meet the system. So naturally, the survival of coastal fishermen is determined by the 5.3% of the pots provided by updrafts, including their codfishing in distant areas from far away from Icelandic economic law, such as economic history. in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u2	Mr. President. It wasn't a hot zombie that came to us here shortly after a year's convention, when suddenly plans for a silica plant in Helga came back. An organization made a decision in this matter, and it was generally negative, but a candidate, or owner, through Arion's bank, is looking for buyers for this factory, which is not merely financial failure, but environmentally, and I almost play to say morally bankrupt in the place where it is. That's what woke Guðbrandur. Einarsson This week at a council hall, and his colleague from the town council of the city of FriðjónEinarsson the town council president of the Council of Churches, has made a good account of the town's position on the matter. You see, the town government of Smokeytown wants to learn from past mistakes. The town council has told PCC executives at Bakka, who are trying to sell the silica plant, that there is no interest in the government's interest in rebuilding the plant in Helga. In addition, the town government has requested cooperation with Anion Bank to tear down the factory and further work together on a well-green development in Helga. We at the General's office have to support the citizens of the city of Rhines. We need to help the government and the owners of this factory correct past mistakes. To accomplish this, I suggested to the Environment and Transport Committee that we would have an open meeting on this matter, and it was agreed yesterday. At that meeting, we will receive the town management of Smokestown, which will account for its lack of tools to support the local community, the institutions involved in the process, the EEA in particular to describe its position on 11% increase of greenhouse gas emissions that would follow the factory, and then Arion banks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The owner of their policy wishes to have a positive influence, both in the environment and in the community, which this factory certainly does not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u3	The president reminds us that there is a limited speech period in the council, and members of the Parliament ask that they respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u4	A respectable president. Unlike most of the talks being held under this council, I will use this opportunity to make clear the work of the Parliament. It is in a way that when it comes to the appearance of some system in Iceland, the government's answer is that it is not worth doing anything in them right now, because an overall review is needed in this category instead of adding more patches on the present system. In a sense, the government is right. The current system is so full of patches that it is next hopeless for no one to understand how it works. A fine example of this is the support network that has been created for older people and disability. But that also does not mean using an overall review as an excuse for not doing anything. Why, though, does it take so long to get a complete review of important issues? Yes, the reason is rather simple, and it is the type of work that is practiced by the greater part. Advertisers are appointed to perform new bills, often without much involvement in the council and the law, bills that are then tried to drive through the council without much discussion. This leads to a lack of agreement over the overall review and ends up in a drawer until the next council, where it is responsibly changed and facing the same end year after year. The way out of this nonsense is simple but requires sacrifice. The basis is the willingness to listen to and take into consideration the opinions of others and to enable others at work to create new systems. We senators will be judged by the coming election on how well we have worked together to improve our community. Let us show the nation that we are ready to contribute to the work as a team.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u5	A respectable president. The open and critical debate is good when it comes to discussing Covid and all the other concerns involved. When some of my independent associates say that the criticism is difficult, I disagree completely with them. I also disagree completely with them when they say that the government has failed in their response to the epidemic. It is enough to mention that this has been successful, and it shows an international comparison whether the number of deaths, vaccination status, or economic status. The Icelandic government has built its decisions on the best possible information, research and data, making decisions on society's overall interest. The rules for screening, infestation, isolation, and general restrictions have been made based on the evaluation of the position at a time, so that the situation is not advanced beyond the need and the members of the Parliament have every opportunity to participate fully in this discussion, including the following: to the regular check-ups of the current and former health minister, that I do not speak of the Ministers sitting at the table making decisions. When spoken as if only one point of view were responsible for any action of the government and the Generals, it has been true that great consultations have been made with members of the public interests. There, scientific advice has gained weight. The aims have been to protect national life and health and to minimise social and economic damage to the epidemic. The Parliament has dealt with economic and social activities and has had a lot to say about them. While it is good that politicians call for information and ask critical questions, responsible political parties must also offer solutions that involve a responsible attitude toward the subject. Such an attitude must always be based on the best of research and evidence rather than on ideological views or reports.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u6	President. A recent answer from the wood secretary to my request for share loans was made that last year nearly 300 such loans were granted, 91 to those under certain income limits. The bill in which these measures were made estimated was estimated to be a share loan of some 4,400,500 apartments per year for ten years. That's close to half, almost 300 out of 500, and there's still more to be found. We are in a house - to - house position where there is a lack of about 4,000 apartments, so there is something missing. This was to cover a ten - year apartment, and if it were a clean addition to everything else, it would cover the space, fill the hole in the house market. But obviously there is something missing, so the resources are not working out the way they were supposed to. Clearly, there is some means to fix the problem and at least reach the minimum of the number of apartments this resource is designed to achieve, or we will always be in the same problem as the lack of housing. That's a problem we've had all last term and actually longer. It is predictable that if these measures do not produce the results they were supposed to produce, then this too will be a problem during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u7	Honorable President, what. Senators and local people watching this program live. My name is Tómas, called Tommi, and I'm an older citizen. But that's exactly what I want to talk about in this sermon today. Thus, when men, and women, turn 70 years of age and work for the public, they are eager to stop working. On the other hand, at nearly 73 years of age, I have made a four - year contract with the government to work on the superpowers as well. I went to see my uncle yesterday, he's a doctor, he's 73 years old, and the other day I went to see an old dentist, a 72 - year - old, and they were both in good health. But yesterday I received an e - mail from a woman who had been working for 16 years at the government for care, she was 70 years ago, and she was practically thrown out of her job. That's not fair. I'm sorry. Why in the hell is this not corrected? In 1989, Bill Wyman, the bassist of Rolling Stones, said in an interview: The fifties are the new sisters. I mean, we, who are of this age and who have good health, should be allowed to work. When people can win, it is unfair to drive them home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u8	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of the Board of Teachers Union of Iceland, where serious comments were made to the top language. Prime Minister and health minister that schools need to be kept open in a pandemic for women to get to work. The board points out that if governments care as much about equality as they say, they can slow down from home in their own study, for they themselves maintain one of the largest systemal inequities of Icelandic society; the women's minimum wage policies in public employment. The Ministers'comments were understandable to teachers, and much came to them and attended schools for less than two years as an Icelandic community, like the rest of the world, has dealt with the crown virus epidemic. The Teacher Union points out that in those days foreign countries looked to Iceland as an example in the way educational systems can cope with such challenges. While there have been educational disorders and accumulated health, social, and academic problems that have been real and serious, there has been general success in dealing with pandemic challenges. The key to this success lies primarily in adaptability, professionalism, and innovation of Icelandic school people who do their best every day. When you look at Iceland as a model for school at the time of epidemics, you are not looking to politicians for lawsuits but to the work of those who keep the school system going. The key is to rely on professionals and have strong consultations, which, in fact, did not occur when the decision was made to remain in school with the last decision to be diseased. I believe, as the examples prove, that instead of relying on the individual politicians in this regard, it is better to rely on professional advice, regardless of how to use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u9	A respectable president. I have now received the answer to my inquiry to the highest degree. HCP on the management of endometriosis or endometriosis and on the basis of appreciation for the response. The answer confirms what I had experienced, which is a waiting period for an interview, and the treatment of the disease at the Land Hospital is way too long. On the other hand, the answer gives us reason for optimism. V.E.G. The health secretary now informs us that he is working to shorten a waiting period within the whole medical system and that he has focused particularly on enterprisis, both on waiting time and on improved patient service. This is good news for a large group of patients who have suffered both physically and spiritually. The medical projects are enough, and I'd like to encourage the highest. Health Ministers to the promotion of political leadership to place patients and their needs in the foreground, but they do not allow old - fashioned credits to block a vision. There must be total agreement that we can enable the Hospital to do our job. It is important to listen to all the voices in the medical profession and the Hospital in this matter, but also in other outstanding matters at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u10	V.E.G. President. It was observed in the case of former head of walkers at Covid yesterday that the costs of each pcr test in this country are about 11,000. Since the start of the Korean virus epidemic, about a million pcr tests have been carried out within the country and over 500,000 on the border. A total of over one and a half million pcr tests run the cost of their implementation at approximately 17 billion bucks. Does this mean that there is a total of the cost of rapid testing and infecting diseases? Most people infected with the ultrasound variants of the virus have little or no symptoms. The mean duration of transmission of the variants is twice as long as the delta infection and the introduction rate is much lower, as it is shown on the numbers. Today, 33 are in a hospital because of the virus, as many as in December 2020, although the rate of transmission was broken by today. Boris Johnson, prime minister of Britain, introduced this morning the reduction restrictions in Britain, decommissioned Covid passa, masked and distant work in nursing homes, and even indicated that the time would soon come when the infected would not need to isolate themselves anymore. We've just agreed to accept the continuation of the necessary action to support our professional life during these restrictions, and I'm glad that the government has carried out its own duty in creation. This does not change the total cost of these actions to hundreds of billions. If that is not absolutely necessary, we need to be aware of the cost of continuing in the same course and also ask ourselves, " Could I be more effective and even more effective in using the funds in another way in the fight with this client? ' [[The president calls.]] That question is definitely raised in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u11	A respectable president. I started last night with the need to take up the discussion about how we're dealing with the epidemic as a community. Then I'm not just talking about disease prevention procedures. I'm talking about all the consequences and the consequences. I called for us here at the General and in the community to have as much discussion as we do. the economic activities of the epidemic and the response It's very well defined. There we have plenty of articles, numbers, and details. Today, there is one of the most severe measures from the start, the premium restrictions. Here I have the official data; two pages of the five-page interview physician's memo. I can hear it right away, as I entered last night, and I was afraid, that this conversation would start to cause feelings. I want us to take this discussion. This morning's information conference made it appear that we had been accusing the office of a psychiatrist of making just one decision and that it was not in agreement. I know they're in good collaboration, and they have a lot of information but they don't have the information, we don't get them covered. We do not have any other viewpoint to know if all of this is right and normal. These may well be the best measures, and they are justifiable. We just need information and data, and we need to take the discussion, as we do. about all the economic activities we've been going through. It's always said that we don't have solutions, we don't have solutions. Yes, our solution is and what we're calling on, to make more peace with our activities in the community, and we're sure that we're doing the right thing and that we're reducing the most impact, calling others to the table, and having more informed discussions. That's what I'm calling after the media and the Generals and the government do; make an informed decision so that everyone knows we're going the best way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u12	V.E.G. President. In view of the word "woe." I would like to remind the members of the Independence Party that they have had less than two years to ensure that, as government supporters, the Allied Council of Iceland is involved in setting the lines of disease prevention, as is done in neighboring countries. But I'm not here to discuss it. I'm here to draw the attention of the United States Congress on the results of a new investigation from the Defense Research Centre, which was introduced earlier today. There are some bad news there. First, in the workplace, people's spiritual and financial standings have deteriorated from year to year. We have begun to see the great and serious consequences of a pandemic, not only of the economic situation but of its spiritual condition. The results of this study clearly show that a large number of workers in Iceland cannot handle any unexpected expenses, cannot handle unexpected expenses, e.g. 80,000 p.m., mentioned above, without going into debt. As always, and this knows why. Congress officials are the worst among single - parent families, and we all know that most single parents are mothers with children. There is no news in itself, as seen in this study on the subject of poverty, health problems, or other factors in our good society, but in the past two years, there has been a worsening of this situation. And what are they? They are ensuring the security of people with more apartments in the general housing market and securing the implementation of children and young people in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u13	A respectable president. Iceland's government is like carrying an army of espionage agents on their side, who are busy bringing news of what ministers and government are breaking down at one time. One thing, though, is that I have never seen mention on the board of directors, and it is an interesting letter from Brussels that was received this December 15th. This confirms that the European Commission has violated eight articles in the EEA Convention on Environmental Assessment Assessment, when the government of the last term pressed down here on a single day the law that gave advisers the right to issue a license to fish farms without adequate environmental assessment. There was a violation of the basic princes of the August Convention, a violation of European rules for the democratic right of the public to have something to say about how nature and our country are going. It is sobering to think here is the European Union institutions that pick up and defend this right of the public while Icelandic politicians were in the process of trampling the rights with decision-making and specific legislation completely contrary to the accepted rules of environmental assessment that we and our neighbors should support. The government and we here on the legislature will have an extension to March 15 to correct this. Otherwise, we can expect Iceland to be reassigned to EFTA Court for violating environmental assessment regulations. I trust that this will be improved, and I sincerely hope that a new one will be the best. Environment Minister, Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, has more respect for the public's right to make decisions involving nature's disorder than did his predecessorIngi Guðmundur. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u14	A respectable president. During the last summer's interview, Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir, vice president of an independent group, spoke of the government's policy strategy and forward vision in response to the new pandemic. The government was going to give him two or three weeks on the project. The minister, with President's permission, said: "So it's up to us to answer how we're going to have things in the future. The interview appeared on July 24, the day after the government again announced disease prevention operations within the country. It was a setback, of course, for the same government had a month earlier removed all action within the country at a large press conference. But the back was only temporary, said the minister. They would now be taking that brief time to win this future policy. So the government was saying that in the last year, it has become clear that she would have to set some lengthy plan, a plan to take part in the translation of the public in Iceland for vaccination is on a global scale, a plan to meet the health - care and health challenges, a plan for school, a plan for companies, a plan for culture living, a plan for sports work in the country, a plan for home life in the country, a plan that could be looked longer than the next few days and weeks, a future plan instead of constant uncertainty. The policy and plan were to answer how we were going to live as a society to live with Covid in the near future and possibly forever, said the highest. Minister. But since then there has been no word of a government plan until the chairman of the Independence Party appeared in the media before Christmas and called for a plan. He didn't seem to know that his own government was building a plan last summer. We are being shouted at by a lack of self - control. Does this government not recognize its own role? Do the eight ministers not agree that they can do more than criticize their own course? Meanwhile, society dwells in constant uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u15	A respectable president. At the beginning of 2020, a pandemic arrived. It's been two years. The government was given the unexpected task of dealing with the consequences in many ways. In the beginning, the wise decision was made to follow the pathologists in preventing disease. It was our luck. We can now see that by following the advice of experts, we managed to protect the health system, which kept up with the virus. I'm not gonna let myself think about what the situation would be like if we hadn't done it. In this regard, we can look to other nations that battled in spite of a powerful health system. We can look to the United States, for at a time, there was full of morgues outside a New York hospital. People in this country may not generally realize that health institutions in this country had plans to store the bodies if necessary. We can thank you that the stage wasn't real. One of the most important things is that we have managed to keep the schools of our country open. Experts are already talking about long - standing habits that can adversely affect children's learning and spiritual well - being. What would be the situation among children who were back in the world for months in many foreign lands? A respectable president. Governments have also made progress in promoting economic counter measures to reduce the impact of a pandemic. The measures taken by the government have numbered to a third of them. These include support to the operator, demand action and maintenance of recruitment, household protection, and, especially, protection of vulnerable groups. Experts have concluded that this has been successful. I'm sick of this situation, as most people do, but we have to keep smiling, stick to careful and effective economic measures. It's not an option to give up now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u16	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of State has stepped up in the media this week and announced measures to support the catering sector. I'm not going to make comments about the need for support, both necessary and urgent, but the work around it. As far as I'm concerned, it's expected that the action between 1.5 and 3 billion will be carried out, and as a new senator, it's a very special thing to be promised a new release of a budget bill without any consultation with the council that has been held. This work is incomprehensible to one's mind, but we'll discuss it now. How such strength will be expanded is of vital importance, and action may not be required by all who need support. Object improvements are useful, e.g. not the employees who have lost their jobs or where a large proportion of the workers cannot work because of isolation or infection. Also, there are restaurants that have short or no business history and therefore do not have proper criteria or simply no criteria at all. Now we need to develop some form of resistance grants that help these companies to maintain seawater so that they can implement necessary projects and preparation for the summer. A respectable president. I hope we will soon be able to handle this epidemic, so it is important that these companies receive the necessary and proper support so that no one will drown at the beach table, as one caterer put it so inconspicuously to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u17	V.E.G. President. When I asked for a special discussion about the Shiman sale of Milan at the beginning of the council, I was hoping to get that discussion before the sale went through. Yet, this discussion is vital, and many questions have been raised that need to be answered. What stands out is the failure of the government to invest in investors and finance, as it is immediately obvious that not everything is wrong. The first official data available on Milan's sale are at the Síman stock meeting on August 31, 2021. In an introduction before the meeting, it says, including, by permission of the president: ▪[E] changes in the union are possible, but nothing has yet been determined on that subject. Foreign and domestic investment funds have taken an interest in the company and will be discussed with some of them thereafter. So many were words. On October 23, seven weeks later, the Siman government signed a contract for sale on all its property in Milan to Ardian. The sale was not for stockholders' meeting. In view of the scope of business, all odds are that the case has been far longer than reported to the shareholders of August 31 of the past year. Everyone must realize that it takes more than a few weeks to complete such complex transactions with all their reliable research and agreements, both in the sale and in the 20 - year contracts involved. Then there are those who sold their share. People are not known for their public interest. Pills with 16% share in Milan are behind this sale. Pillars are the FL Group, and this group is well - known to Icelanders since it played a major role in the damage caused by the nation. Do government ministers think it normal that such a small group as witnesses can be manipulated in this way by the nation's founding? And did the government put some pressure on the pension fund of 62% in Milan to resist the sale in the name of national interest, or is it once again just played with the budget? Then we should not forget that we have no idea who is buying. The phone was selling an important entrance to Milan at 78 billion, and the investment fund is a buyer. But does the government know who the natural investors are? Then it's almost impossible to find, and somehow I doubt that the government has any idea who they are. V.E.G. Then the prime minister would correct me if he knew about the names, the people, and not the financial laws behind the fund that Ardian was buying. But if not, we have no idea who has developed a basic network of communications in the country. That's a very serious matter. The public has been told that this exchange of property will have no effect on consumers, neither the cost nor the safety of communications in the country, since a 20 - year contract was made between Milan and Shiman. Good-bye. But what happens after 20 years? And what is the point of selling something just to rent it back? But there was something else last year, because in February we sold a vision and Nova an important infrastructure that has to do with the 5G structure to a society called Digital Colony. The vision and Nova will, like the phone, rent the inside back of the buyer. Thus, in a few months of the last year, nearly all the basics of communication in the country have been acquired by two investment funds. Worse yet, these funds, Ardian and Digital Colony, are linked and have worked closely together in purchases of communicators extending to North America and Europe. And now both of them have made contracts for buying important communications timbers in Iceland; Digital Colony of Visions and Nova and Ardian of Shimann; and in each case, the contract contains a 20-year contract for the use of the same infrastructure that was sold. Big questions remain: What position do the Icelandic consumers have in buying important national communications on Iceland's network provided for 20 years of contracts with all Iceland's telecommunications? What will be the competition? And does anyone believe that funds that work closely together in other markets begin to compete in little Iceland? Have renowned business blocks, which sheltered minorities against the pension fund, covered enormous sums of money through the entrance of these companies and sacrificed in the process of long - term interest to a nation for short - term prosperity, which should be a familiar business model for the people? How do these companies stand after the business when they've been emptied into the inside and locked up in a 20-year business relationship with an investment fund that no one really knows who's got? And the big question is, How will we return our people's communications to future generations?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u18	Mr. President. I want to thank you. venerator, Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, for taking up this matter, which, of course, has also been discussed in discussions about the scientific, industrial, and novelty bill of Milan's sale. It's a good thing to remember that this business is a business where a private company sells this subsidiary, a private firm that is owned, certainly in part, a Pillar, or whatever. A senator mentioned, which had a large share but among the 20 largest shareholders, had the national pensions and thus nearly 56% a share in the company, so this decision is made by these stakes. It was true that, just to be said here, the company was looking at possible sales, but this particular sale was not available until mid August when the director asked for a meeting with me and informed me about it. As a direct result, I set this matter up on the National Security Council because it is my duty to examine this business on the grounds of national security. Other departments then conduct certain market and consumer issues. I'd like to reiterate that it's certainly an important thing, but it hasn't been discussed in the field of national security, especially. This gives us reason to think that we here in the country have not yet set rules for looking at foreign investments in important infrastructures, but that is the case on my Constitution. I've been preaching it and have been looking to the Norse denounces, but our neighboring countries in the North have been setting such laws in the past two years, in fact, especially in the last two years. Of course, looking to the inside of us as a national security and community security is a huge matter for us. In addition, the European Union has developed policies for suchinvestment and may involve a potential threat of security. This bill, expected from me at this council, will give governments the opportunity to consider and evaluate whether any plans for investment in certain areas could threaten certain basic interests of the State and the public. Hv. A senator asks for the legal rights in law No. 34/1991 on foreign business investments There, the science, industrial, and innovation minister has provided the bill I mentioned at the outset that deals with certain aspects of this investment, but making negotiations between the state and Mila, after the contributions of the bill, did not prove to be an urgent need to resolve this matter in haste before Christmas. Of course, that sheds light on the importance of strengthening this code in general. After I put this particular sale on the government program, we started analysis work. A Communications Office and the Contesting Commission were consulted. As a result, it was decided to have discussions with Shimann about measures to protect national security interests in connection with the sale. The Minister of Transport and Foreign Affairs led them to talks on the part of the state, and then there was the bill I mentioned here prepared. Government talks were conducted with Shimann, a seller of Mila, Ardian, the buyer of Milan, as well as with Mila herself. This discussion led to an agreement on December 13, on specific terms on Milu's national networks. That agreement is in agreement with the scope and emphasis of the government in these discussions, and this agreement was established at a meeting of the government of December 14th. In addition, a review was made on the grounds of law No. 34/1991, on the business investment of foreign workers, which was called for information on owners and key employees. Ardian is a French fund management company with approximately One hundred and twenty billion dollars in steering. Investments in the total funds of Arcadia, which are 1,90, mainly of which are international investors. The investors, who are taking the main policy for pension and insurance insurance companies, should not influence the individual investment fund, and the results of the local minister had to be that he did not believe to stop the business on this basis. The sale, however, is for the Contestance Commission. It is only a short time to review this important matter, but I want to reiterate it here that from the moment this case was before, this case has been discussed in the appropriate field. Of course, there are some basics, such as how we feel about the private property of such an infrastructure company. [[The president calls.]] That decision was made several years ago, in all other governments, but I believe that the government has kept the important security issue from the very beginning of our program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u19	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank a candidate for this discussion about selling nationalally important infrastructures to foreign parties. I would like to begin by saying that I believe that a great mistake was made in the government of Independence Party and High Priesthood in its time of sale of Shiman when infrastructure was not removed but sold to private sources. As indicated by the U.S. Marshal's review of the bill, what is now under consideration. The Environment and Transport Committee is involved in a large network of national security and emergency communications to be assured by the government. A government bill, which was presented as a sort of emergency control agent and was to be quickly administered for Christmas, does not contain a command code for a communications agency to evaluate the impact of business on telecommunications and telecommunications. Because what is it, and what is it all about? Yes, of active infrastructure, telecommunications, security and competition for consumers. And what happens if the infrastructure is let down? Is there any way to make the requirement for the foreign investment funds that are buying Migraa that they maintain a secure network of communications? Can we face the possibility that consumers may become quite prominent when such a large participants are introduced into the market at a higher position? Mr. President. I'm sorry, we can't go back, but we can take care of it by legal means that the safety and interests of the public in Iceland are insured. This painting deal, the highest. Prime Minister mentioned earlier, will not hold anything if the purchase fails, but the Governing Body is looking at it. It must ensure effective legislation that ensures the safety and interest of the public in the country. That's what this is primarily about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u20	A respectable president. We're here discussing important subjects that are our communications services. This case is fundamentally twofold. It's about the intense telecommunications and is of utmost importance for innovation and technological development in the country and on the other hand, for safety, for public security, national security and for the public interest I think these two things can go together, but there are many challenges. In order to ease the tensions there and perhaps try to get both of these factors I mentioned earlier, innovation and development, and then the security, I think we're in a death box here in the country to get them both ahead by finishing a project that's indirectly taken over and that's owning our own security support, that the government owns its security network. It's our foundation today in energy exchange, in security control, in the infrastructure of the Emergency Line, and in the infrastructure of the State Radio, and in other public institutions. If we were to combine this into one powerful security exchange, it won't take so much to finish this circle. Then we've got a tremendous amount of tension out there and while the big extra security that will help us into innovation and development and other companies want to come here and build some technical solutions that depend on communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u21	Mr. President. I would like to thank the advocate for this discussion, perhaps especially for the last question she posed, such as the raisin in the hot dog end, which was, "How are we going to turn in our country's communicators to future generations? " I think it's crystal clear that the government's answer is that they have no idea. They have no idea how to develop communication and to ensure future security. On the contrary, there is endless exposure to government apathy regarding communication and information security. It appeared in the Milu case, also showing that telecommunications are scrawled to one of the mixed sachets in the administrative states now at the beginning of the terms of the election, and are eliminated from the context of other essential elements of society's infrastructure. I'm not sure the government realizes that the importance of public communication cannot be overemphasized. It all goes through them, not just the emergency systems mentioned here, but the basis for all the important elements of society today. It is not as if the Misla has appeared like a storm from a cloud, August of last year, a report on this matter in September 2020. It was two years on the way. During the course of this period, the Environment and Transport Committee discussed total communication laws, which were a number of important tools for telecommunications clinics to interfere with this precise business. That case arose on the committee, not because of opposition to government and some of our unfairness, but because government officials slaughtered it at the end of a committee. This was the second council in a row that the government did not have enough to complete this important matter. [[The president calls.]] If it had been finished, we wouldn't be here talking about the Migraine case as a problem but we would have had tools to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u22	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the advocate and prime minister for taking this discussion. Mila's Society is socially important and is holding the basics of national importance. Communication is becoming an increasingly necessary aspect of modern society. It's not just getting the next person or being able to work home from yourself. It's about national security. The features needed are important in this relationship and the foundation on which our modern society and our work lives are built. Milu's purpose is to build, maintain, and run the inside of a national telecommunication service. So the Society has something to do with all of us. Milu's system is the basis for a wide variety of communications services. It is normal for sales to be built on the foundation, and it is the job of the Generals to identify and react to the company's sales. Selling in Milan to foreign investors is something we need to pause, analyze, and discuss as a community. It is vital that there be solid, accessible communication services, and it is the responsibility of the government to have a high level of control. We have national surveillance agencies that monitor the company, but they need to be developed and they don't have anything to do with it. We have laws in the country that ensure the location of nuclear devices in the area of national telecommunications. This is by references to national security and national security policies for Iceland require that the protection of infrastructure and the current activities of Miglu already require laws on the security issues. The possession of foreign parties on the inside is not necessarily a prescription for worse service or worse access, we have examples to prove it. However, sales on shallow woods, such as Mula's system, are not safe. Sala Milu needs to be followed by government follow-up and based on a clear process of communication and regular reassessment, regardless of whether he is domestic or foreign.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u23	A respectable president. This is what I think, the largest foreign investment in the country in the last decade, is close to 80 billion dollars. Of course, there's a lot at stake, and there's an opportunity for this sale. On the other hand, the interests are such that this can never be considered a business that does not have a purpose for the public. I'd like to say at the outset that I'm not opposed to this sale. I'm a spokesman for international commerce, and I'm a strong and productive society. However, trade with socially important infrastructure needs to be reviewed, since national security has to be guaranteed at all times, with which online security is an increasing factor. We need to be sure that our relationship within the country and with the outside world is not working and will fall with one company, equipment, staff, and activity. We need to be sure that competition and that our connections are in the hands of more than one person. It is also considered that there is an ever - increasing need for data transport and increased demand for its authenticity and its impact on international competitiveness. So there are a wide range of subs and fundamental interests related to one another. Changes in the possession of telecommunications trees and even their sale of land need not be a concern at all. Woods such as those owned by Mila must be in the hands of people who have knowledge of their maintenance and access to it. According to reports, a partner is considering hurrying Milu's investment projects and placing special emphasis on the construction of fiber optics in rural areas in the region. That certainly contains positive news. But the concern here in my mind is how government preparation has been prepared and how this law guarantees the social interests below. I think it's the highest. The minister must give the council a clearer answer than the government has done, how to ensure this fundamental benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u24	A respectable president. Some time ago, that noble writer and former senator, the Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, wrote an article describing the Icelanders and their fanciful debates, their paradoxs, they talked out and went through everything better, but so when it came to the very core of the matter, it all fell into a sense of humour. This comes to my mind now when, of course, an important matter is being discussed, which is strictly taken into account, not necessarily in the case of the Generals or governments. It's a private firm that's being sold. It is requested, however, that through the sale, there will be some kind of validation or stamping from the Council. It's better for the buyer. The point of all of this is that some things may not be private at all. Some infrastructures may be best handled by the state. Selling a Shimann in the way that it was done did not necessarily bring great happiness at the time. This would not be classed up for the great victory marches of those who faced it. But as far as I'm concerned, I don't think it's the essence of the matter, and hopefully it won't just fall apart to mention the core of this matter, the key point is that here is a real phone and Internet relationship all over the country, trust and certain, no matter what happens, no matter what happens. Not today at all. It is a holesful system that we are standing with now, all these years later. That's why I've put the bill that those holes will be added. Here may be an opportunity to make sure that at the approval of the Generals on this contract, there is a commitment to the staging of these holes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u25	A respectable president. Some 17 years ago, the situation that the nation and the government have been put in regarding the sales of Shiman and Milan to foreign parties has a history of thoughtless decisions. What has happened since then is a consequence. It was the Simanum, along with the base net. The members of the VG were opposed to that sale and asked for a national bill on the matter ignored. The answers from the then U.S. headquarters and the Independence Party were so much to be done for this money; to build new Lands Hospitals, to park a Diving Way. What happened? Where's the Daffy Way? Dagur B. hadn't even become mayor then. We're still talking about the Sunway. At that time, a man in the forward - looking group took the lead in explaining to the general party in the country that it could not be understood that Shimann and his base of sale, for they had been promised that the telephone would not be sold, let alone the foundation. After the sale, the ink was hardly dried, but the foundation, Migraine, now sold out of the country, was just as broken by foreign hedge funds over the next few years. With the case, it was easier for the then cohesive team of government progressives and then the members of the council and its members. I'll review it now because it's a story to learn from. Today, we are in a position to make the best of a position that even needs to be made. The pension fund has got us into and helped us get into, the stocks of the markets, and businesses that are often dressed at this time by policies and talking about social responsibility but are even less interested in national interests, public interests, and national security as an unbreakable part of that speech. Thus, government and Generalis are concerned with securing that interest. We have to watch our public interest as national security. What about the family on Fells Beach that became telecommunications last week? [[The president calls.]] What limits a safe service to such homes in foreign hedge funds? We must secure and stand by scattered settlements relying on security, security, the importance of good and secure communications for internationally populated countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u26	Mr. President. It was in 2005 that the government sold Shimann. The matter was disputed, and the Conspira was opposed to the sale, but independents and advancemen drove it through, and Mila was formed. Mila is no ordinary company that doesn't matter how they run. The national public and national security work, the economic, safety, protection and public interests. So there must be rich demands to an investment society that, if corpses become Milu's owner. Mila must not leave the investment budget without a guarantee of community security because if things go wrong, the public will be damaged. Síman's sales error was made at the time. They will not be taken back, but we can put together laws and regulations that will ensure maintenance, security and the government's authority to take over the company if an emergency situation develops or the private person is not qualified for such important activities. Is it safe to ensure that owners can be prevented from being able by emotional or incompetently paralyzed Icelandic society, taking the company out of Iceland's jurisdiction, or selling out the necessary instruments for the operation? A general body has not been given the highest conditions. The prime minister mentioned that the sale was arranged to make sure that they are protected by national security. Sala Mila raises questions about how to protect as best necessary the infrastructure of society in order to protect the interests of public and community security. The store also raises questions about the Icelandic pension fund as inactive business owners. [[The president calls.]] Shouldn't the owners of the pension fund insist that they use their resources as shareholders and money owners to influence business practices? [[The president calls.]] Pension funds had more than one share in Milan.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u27	Mr. President. First, thank you for taking this matter into consideration. It's a big deal. In recent years, I have placed much emphasis on national security and infrastructure, whether in terms of the electronic transport system, the airports, the flying system, the Internet security, or telecommunications. Of course, these are basic factors in the fourth industrial revolution and in the time we are entering in, in the digital future we are looking at. And the discussion here today, this Mistletoe, has to do with it. The Migratory does not directly focus on the possession. It is not the possession that is the key thing here, but the legal environment and how the operation is taken through the law, that the legislation is strong, and that the legislation guarantees national security and public goods in this area as well as anyone else. This matter, naturally, turns to national security and public good, and I have full faith that the investor could make 78 billion investments through his eyes, and all that follows; maintaining it, building on, and other things. It is trapped within the land, more or less, fiber - optics. Of course, there is a full rivalry in this country. We follow the natural states of the North. We follow the friendly nations in NATO in these matters, and that must be what we base on. We are working on a case now associated with this, which in itself is a pivotal bill - and they are gaining more people on the next semester - i.e. The bill on the postmortem tolerance of communications services and telecommunications network, related to this issue. [[The president calls.]] But I am very pleased, Mr. President, that we are discussing national security here in general, and we are to do so much more often. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are many things to do in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u28	Mr. President. During these days, the Contestance Commission will review whether it makes a comment on the Migraine sale, normally, in the case of a company in the market position. The problem is that not all factors that need to be considered are covered by such special infrastructure as those discussed in Milu's case. Therefore, there is a co - European principle called the Code, which deals with the European communications network and was to be introduced on land by new global communications laws. That bill has been submitted twice. During the last two Parliaments, the government has given it a bill and not had the strength to complete it. That is the priority of communication security in the long term of this government. If the bill had become a law, it would have been considered not only traditional competitiveness, as the United Nations Organization is doing, but also the quality and safety of the network of communications, which must have mattered everything and cannot be viewed by the Contestance. But no, that bill didn't run out last spring or spring before. We are still waiting for another bill from the government, which would have been very good to have when the Migraine business originally came up regarding foreign investments in important community infrastructures at the highest level. Prime Minister mentioned earlier. It's March 17th. Mr. President. I called this in my first speech here. Sleepy is another thing to call it. I hope the government isn't asleep anymore, but I find it a long time to wake up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u29	A respectable president. Sala Mila has been anything but dissuaded. There are strong voices that threaten national security, and it is not certain that the possession of a foundation and communication network is in the hands of foreign people. Some facts have already been presented. Mila runs basic wood, which is of national importance to us. There is no requirement for the possession of the Icelandic Member States in telecommunications. The sales have been discussed with the National Security Council. That opinion is not complete, but I cannot see from available data that sales are threatening the national security of Iceland. In the new CDC laws, there are rich sources of monitoring as well as conditions that all equipment needs to be produced by countries with which Iceland plays a security team at, or countries in the EEA. National security policies for Iceland require protection of infrastructure and, under law, legally establish the location of nuclear devices on the national network and refer to national security. In view of the transport and local government, an agreement on the above, as well as the proposed newcommunications, will contribute to the integration of Milu's activities with national security. Government follow-up with the implementation of the agreement must be based on a clear process and a process of information sharing, essential cooperation and regular reassessment of the importance of national security. With a fresh bill for changing telecommunications laws and telecommunications laws and the payment of foreign businesses in business, I believe that we can better secure the security of Iceland's communications network. It is important that no doubt about the security of Iceland's communications network is completely secure because it is important that the council take over, and I thank you for the opportunity to arrive at the above - mentioned viewpoints. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u30	A respectable president. In this large matter, there are some basic questions underneath, such as. The line between state and private failures, national security issues as well as the economy of all of us through the currency. To make it clear: Reverence does not have reason to make a comment on this trade, based on the fact that these infrastructures need to be owned by the State or unreservedly owned by domestic enterprises. The important thing is that the laws and regulations around this market are acceptable, that they are efficient, reasonable, and, above all, that the surveillance is sound. We can look at this in the light of another infrastructure system owned by public members. Electric energy transport systems have been high in the news, simply because its owners have failed to build and maintain the system. The result is the lack and loss of electricity with the related loss of value and damage to the work structure, not to mention the weakness that appeared to us during the great storm that suffered a few losses. This example tells us that the possession of property alone, public property, or foreign property, does not lead to the loyalty of public interests. Government complacency when it comes to national security is much more disturbing. Every analysis and assessment by experts in this field tells us that these views need much more important in the discussion, since our global picture has changed in a technologically designed world. There, governments need to keep on the watch and must not give way to a bad dream in times of disaster, as it did when this issue began. This is a big business, and in a report from the Símans, it has been specifically warned against the effects on the crews of the kroner. To quote Síman's statement regarding the case: There is then a business of magnitude, possibly leading to temporary flux abnormalities or unusual short-term movement on the crew of the kroner... So we need to ask not only questions about the thinking and plans of foreigners but also questions about government vigilance and, quite a few things, including the Secret Bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u31	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Prime Minister and others who spoke before them. There are still tremendous numbers of questions left. But I received an answer that the government heard about this on August 13th. Yet, the phone holds the stockholder's meeting on August 31, where these matters are not discussed. We here and the public first heard of these plans -- well, I think it was just the week after the election. Then we took nine weeks where none of us could do anything, ask no questions, or have any effect on this matter. There is a lack of confidence in the Icelanders in their private employment as this one, and that is not without reason. The common people, consumers, they never make up for such personal goods. We've always had to pay for it. It is clear to everyone that Milu's operation does not depend on these 78 billion, so somewhere this will be taken away, that is quite clear. I would like to direct that question to the highest. Prime Minister: Why was this before the election asked to be revealed? On whose request was this done, and who made that decision? And was that a mutual agreement within the government? I think that's extremely important. It is also quite clear that certain people knew about this while others did not. So you don't need to investigate stock exchanges, especially insides and related parties, with a letter in the Símanum in the end of a contract for the Milu sale? Or perhaps it has been done? I don't have much more to say for now, but thank you very much for your participation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u32	Mr. President. I appreciate the discussion, too. I've had a lot of things going on, and I don't have time to answer all of that. But I'll probably mention four things. This has been discussed in the company's announcement, including from Shimanum to Copenhagen in April 2021, that counselors had been hired to explore future options. This was discussed in the media, so I can't see that nothing has been kept secret. On August 13, however, I am informed that this is going to happen, and then I informed the National Security Council and the government at the same time. It was then only later that these designated merchants were selling. There's nothing wrong with asking about this timeline, but I think it's important that we stay here at the Senate Hall. Second, I'd like to say that I don't think it's possible to talk about complacency. Hv. Senators know I've been doing a lot of work, including On the law of the law of the land and of property. Such a bill was adopted here at the last council, unfortunately not with the support of all classes, but it is about this matter, to take possession of Iceland's national property to ensure that the government has a position to intervene if anything is threatened by public or national security. I was very sorry that the government had no confidence in supporting that matter, but I welcome the interest I sense here in changing ways in these matters. Then I want to pick up one thread as good as any. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason mentioned. The government's been buying specific factors. I mention identity, I mention more parts in the Emergency Line, I name the Farice string, which is about communication with the outlands. I think it's very important that we continue on this course and ensure a measure of fundamental security. [[The president calls.]] The National Security Council has been discussed, including Take the initiative. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, of independent domestic payment and of this course. [[The president calls.]] To ensure national and social security, we must continue. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I thank you for the discussion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u33	Madam President. I present a council proposal for a very urgent case, which has actually been urgent for years. This is not the first time a comparable motion is presented. In fact, the members of the Central Party repeated in their last terms, since this is meant to deal with almost all the solutions of Icelandic society. How can that be? Yes, it is because it has to do with the government's better business and there's no use. In the time of this government, government spending has increased tremendously. This government managed to raise the government spending in one terms period by a high 40%. I think there must be some sort of record, and although events during the last term that called for unpredicted expenses, especially the epidemic and measures to deal with it, the increase in spending seems to be permanent in the government. We have now seen in the latest financial programme of the government and the latest budget bill that even if the epidemic was expected to be in remission and that we were getting out of this Covid period, the government simply assumed that it would continue to set up a record increase, spend more money than ever before, the taxpayers' money. Of course, it affects the ability of the government, the ability of society to establish priorities, and many of the important issues that require extra funding. You see, the growth is largely the result of this government's failure to run the community, not the government of state management out of the sense we must expect by governments. In other words, just growing and growing, gooder or more difficult to deal with, growing in every situation in this government and never bigger than it is now. This synopsis is intended to handle this with proposals for a simple system of rules, but at the same time, for the sake of reducing the bloc and building companies and persons who are active in the community and making the valuables that the state fund needs to earn to cover all these expenses, they can make more valuable money. This, on the one hand, goes to the expense and better management of money from a wealth fund and, on the other, an increase in the interest of valuable things. It's all being handled by this conquistador of the council. It refers to a work that has already been done. During 2013 and 2014, a lot of energy was put into work on simplifying the Iceland network, reducing unnecessary public activities, simple regulations, even published in a complete report, a brochure, on how to achieve these objectives, as well as a special manual for government agencies on how to work with the objective of reducing expenses and saving the general population. This was followed by various plans and measures, including plans to implement a rule that would not be added to the government's new burdensome regulations or laws differently than at least two similarly burdensome rules fall out. Especially was this an example from Britain. This would encourage the system to simplify and subtract it into politics, as there is no need to have many words about how interested it is here in this room and in the management system all to interfere with the regular work and to increase the burden of the public. We've seen it happen over and over in the past few years. But by setting a rule that means that when governments desire to set up new regulations, establish new laws, they need to review twice as many comparable rules, and that is a strong motivation for reducing the Regulation. Along with these plans and measures of the past, we also decided in the then government that the state would cease to be subject to inflation, but it has indeed been that the State, the State, the government, is a new year, by reporting increases in any kind of fees imposed on the public. In other words, a decision was made to disappear, starting with it. But then the government changed, and it seems to have been more and less fun, and the State continued on the same path, continuing to increase the cost, continued to complicate the system. In fact, during the last term, during the last term, the government boasted that in two scheme cases, I recall, some kind of simple rule, which was already more than just a matter of removing regulations that were no longer in use and that had not been decades. It is urgent to engage in these measures because the government's budget has become insurmountable, as is evident in the latest financial programme of this government. It is not possible to continue in the same way. You can't keep letting the blunder grow almost out of control. When this government after the election introduced its Constitution and its policy plan, a government contract, it was not a matter of much importance to save, manage public funds. The focus was on growing expenses and new institutions. This requires intervention by the Generals. However, this synonym is stated in a way that the government will be assigned a specific project, including one. to look to the work that had already been done and appeared to 2014, as I mentioned. But we hope that by allowing the government to complete this and implement it, it will be more available to accept it and not profit. During the last term, the number of government employees has increased by 9,000. At the same time, the number of employees in the private sector has decreased by about the same size. Official employees are many who and probably most people are important, performing very important roles in the community. But it must not be cut out of context, for it requires tax pay. It takes the private sector's valuable creation so that we can live under the public system, including accounts for paying pay to government employees, but they are now approaching a third of the active people in Iceland. Whether the number of institutions, new projects, complex regulations, or other factors affecting government affairs has declined throughout the history of this government, and this despite the fact that the Independence Party had been conducting the Ministry of Economic Affairs all that time and actually considerably longer. This requires action, and with this suggestion it is shown how to engage in these actions rapidly and effectively, including by taking into account the work already done and was beginning to produce results when the policy has been turned aside and back to the course of expansion. This is so important that we can afford to promote the health system, but the organization also needs attention. They lack it. At the same time, the expansion of most systems has simply become entangled instead of being fixed. But with the better management of the state funds, we are better equipped to invest in what is most important that the government fund invests in and with simple regulations, we look forward to a much more valuable creation, which has been lacking in the community, even though companies are doing a lot of good and are trying hard to deal with these barriers, this forest of Regulation. But then the companies would be more valuable, especially if the smaller companies didn't have to spend much of their time dealing with the system. This is also important because it increases enterprises. By reducing the burden of order, by simplifying the principle and by keeping the State in service to the public rather than in contrast, the equality between small and large enterprises, is, of course, the best control of the Regulation industry. They even have whole divisions, law departments, accounting departments in just dealing with the system first and foremost, the little companies can't allow it. It's simply like this in Iceland that you can hardly start a business, start a small business, make a good idea come true, unless you can hire people for a job just to deal with the system, hire employees or outside specialists at work when you meet all the demands of the government and the government lay down on companies, put on those who are creating the value in society. It's a very discouraging system, and it's coming back to us. It's coming back to a government fund. Thus, a simple rule and more savings must be left in the hands of a government tax gain. When the government has accomplished it in one terms period to increase government spending by a high 40%, and to increase official values that are never earlier, as levels in the private sector decrease, this calls for action. And here's a solution. At least. The beginning of the solution, but as I mentioned earlier, we'd like to hide the government from finishing this, allow the government to implement it in its own way. I view it as important and desirable to use the work that has already been done, to add it if the government sees a reason for it, but to take advantage of the much work that had taken place and more than anything else follows. That is what may be most lacking in this government, the will, and endurance, for this can be difficult in many ways. It has lacked both the will and endurance of this government in order to better handle public tax and simple regulations, to reduce the curses and restrictions imposed on the general population in the country. But if this Parliamentary proposal is accepted, it is implemented, the income of the state's funds will increase, the expenses will decrease, the future generations will have more prosperity, less tax appeals than the prospects now and the general well-being of Iceland, the life in Iceland will be better. I believe, Mr. President, this should be a priority for the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir So did Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, for the contributions of this bill and the talk that could be heard here. I believe that, although there is not a popular opinion in this house, you should celebrate all good ideas, no matter where they come from. I'm not sure that many listened to what was said here or are listening to what is being said now, it's an empty room for most standards. But I'm interested in trying to push this good idea, for, of course, here, some pitiable senators have been working for decades, and it's built into the system that people should put forth as much prime signals as possible and in the running of an interconversation between members of the councils and then between parties on the basis of each of the most basics, but it's not often asked how much they cost. So I rejoiced, at this morning's presentation, that some kind of price was to be put back on new ideas before they are passed through and made legal. Of course, what the senator is discussing is just a practical and perfunctory request. We need to go through everything that's been blown up and hang around the necks of Icelandic taxpayers and Icelandic citizens to see what can be done better and then to see how we can increase the resources of the money fund that is supposed to be the source of everything. So I'm on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u35	President. I'd go for it. paritaprevir Thank you, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, for the welcome and rare approach here at the council, to assess the matter simply from its contents rather than from a lecture or, therefore, who it is who suggests it. I think it would be a great improvement if more senators came close to things the same way as before. In fact, a senator has entered the council as a fresh breath. Well, at least not at all. A senator looks younger than I am, I know, because I've just seen the numbers, that he isn't, but he does come with youthful strength and new vision and experience as well as by participating in Icelandic, Icelandic, commercial, and politics. There's a lot of luck. A senator here and I hope there will be more senators who look at things the way they are. paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. Gunnlaugsson I hope that we can achieve some kind of solidarity, both minority and majority, to promote harmony, a positive attitude, and especially to provide good ideas. I know that it has happened, perhaps not often within the same terms, that minor ideas have been adopted at the scene of more things, including this. I am hopeful and an idea like the one that has been presented here today deserves to be taken seriously and taken for granted. I would not fail to participate in a job that would aim to reduce curses on the Icelandic public. I am well aware that although both parents in their children are working secularly and at a reasonable salary, it is equally difficult for normal people to make ends meet for a month - long period. In Iceland, there is the most expensive food car in the world, and taxes are enormously high. Of course, we join in the best order and all, but for various reasons we are known, there is now a time when the high - cost period in Iceland is huge and the largest part of our income ends in the state, with taxes and taxes and so on. Let's do this with a combined effort, all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u37	Mr. President. This is an important source of encouragement, and it is true. According to one senator, there are cases where proposals from the general council have passed, perhaps one or two cases during each assembly, and this has usually been associated with some sort of agreement on the end of the council, as it were, with horse purchases. In any case, cases from general members of the government are simply removed or dropped. Even if the greater part is the government, one would prefer to settle the matter and later bring the same things and sometimes the exact same. There are many examples, and this is exactly why this suggestion is presented in the way that the government will simply be assigned a task so that it can make it its own, so to speak. If that is the case, I will not mourn if ministers boast of success, certainly not. Because like a dog. It's not just a question of who makes the suggestion and who does it, but what will be the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u38	A respectable president. I will bring here the bill to legalize the work permit for the Southnes Line 2, where you will request a 1st par. sound: ▪ Landsnet Corp. has been authorised to work on the construction of Southnesline 2, 220 kV line between Hamlins in Hafnarfjörður and Redamel in Grindavik, with the main option, option C, in the Landsnet assessment report and the opinion of the Agency on environmental impact assessments from April 22, 2020. The duration of the implementation of the authorisation for the procedure is 12 months starting with the approved protocols. In accordance with organizational requirements, these rural areas are being monitored for projects. And then there's 2. g. that says that this law already comes into effect. A respectable president. I'm going to read the report quite exactly. It's complicated. I have been helped to win this matter, and I am very grateful for it. I'm going to read the report, and I hope I have plenty of time to do it. The bill was previously submitted to the 151th legislation, but it was not granted. It's submitted again with some changes. This bill suggests that the lawgiver grants permission by law to implement the necessary transport initiatives laid down in Article 1. the bill, based on a legal preparatory procedure, in place of the local government, in the absence of a license already available to the Member States. If the bill is legal, there is a law that goes beyond the general law that may be involved in the implementation of implementation. In view of the current situation, the bill presented here can be considered for the implementation of Southnes Line 2, is limited monotherapy, and there will not be any need for a sentence of the same kind later. It is anticipated that, in accordance with the government's administration contract, adjustments of organizational laws will be undertaken, on the basis of the implementation of larger projects that go through many rural areas. The objective of this bill is similar to that, i.e. to improve effectiveness in judicial management to ensure the progress of national important activities in electrical transport systems that have passed a legal pre-communication and consultation process and are in accordance with government policies on the building of electrical transport systems and electrical correction policies. 1st Target performed. The objective of the project on Southnesline 2, covered by a bill, is three. It is adding the availability of electrical energy in the Southnes, increasing the transport capacity between the capital area and the Southernis to support delivery security in the capital area, and strengthening the electrical transport systems in the southwestern corner of the country. Action is required to improve the delivery security of electrical energy on the Southnes and to increase transport capacity between the capital area and the Southernnes. Today, there is one 132 kV electrical line to transport to and from the Southnes, Southnes Line 1. There are no other routes of transport if it fails. The impact of the sudden failure of the line on Southnes is virtually inevitable, with its negative effects on homes and businesses. With the appearance of Southnes Line 2, the transport system becomes more flexible in business and the delivery safety of Southnes is greatly increased. Adequate transport capacity is available which may be exposed to larger variations when the large production units or larger users suddenly disable the system or in longer periods of time, e.g. St. John's wort is not recommended. Improving the connection of the activation of Smokejanes to the port at Hafnarfjörður supports the delivery security of the capital area. Until 2005, electricity was transferred only from the capital area to the Southnesia. During the past decade, growth has increased in Southnes, and significant transport of electricity is from the area into the capital area. The transport system is under intense pressure to the capital area and there is a risk of severe interference with delivery if failure occurs. Moving into the capital area has already become heavy. 2. Based on the Commission's opinion and conduct. The conclusion of the Landsnet was to apply for implementation of Southnes Line 2 in accordance with option C in the opinion of the Agency's 22 April 2020 assessment of environmental effects. This conclusion is based on careful preparatory work, which includes choice analysis, environmental impact assessments, expert reports, cost analysis, in accordance with law and rules, government policies, consultations with strategists and landowners. The environmental impact assessments were six. These are listed in this report, A, B, C, D, and E, and are according to what is stated here on a printed sheet, and I will not read it, for it appears many times in the text. During the pre-production and environmental assessment, different tools were taken into account with the objective of reducing the negative impact on the environment. The results of Landsnet were to apply for implementation at Southnes Line 2 in line with the choice of C in the environmental impact assessment, which is a 220 kV airline between Hafnarfjords and Gravitors. The decision to complete the trip to Southnes Line 2, option C, is based basically on the following elements: Sources designed for the National Network for the construction of an economic and safe transport system that does not result in the limitations of delivery or dispensing, taking into account the environment. These requirements are based on the requirements of electricity laws, which refer to government policies on the fixation of electrical lines and the construction of the electrical transport systems. Environmental assessment results based on environmental assessment, which assess the impact of Southnes Line 2 on the environment and society. The result is that environmental impact is different between options that are identified by the Landsnet when deciding the best option. The advantage of C has a larger environmental impact than the option B. The difference in environmental impact of these costs is not conclusive based on the assessment and opinion of the Agency. With earthquakes, earthlines are safer than land cables in conditions that can be found in the Southnes Line 2, whether a ground cord runs south or north of the Rhine Way. Thus, the option C, which stipulates this bill, is a significant option in line with the opinion of the Agency on environmental assessment. Is the bill this way with 2 mg. 14th par. " God Is With All Things, " No. 123/2010, which requires the publication of the European Commission to submit the opinion of the Agency on the assessment of the environmental impact of the Agency to the core. Is the Organization's opinion, in accordance with the above mentioned, laid the basis for this bill's contract. According to the Organization, it is in the hands of a member of the community to take a decision on which options will be permanently selected and where decisions must be made, the community needs to make a common set of factors. In this case, it is evident that the majority of the members of the rural group (3/4) have chosen option C. 3. Synchronize bill with government policy. System plan 2018●2027. The Power Institute agrees with Landsnet's system plan, sir. Count 9. a, in electronic law, no. 65/2003 and Regulation No. 870/2016, for a system design of electrical transport systems. The plan of a system plan discusses investments that need to be addressed over the next three years and their schedule. 2 mg. Count 9. The energy layer should inform the Power Agency about new transport initiatives prior to use and the Energy Agency should monitor that such activities are in accordance with the transport company's implementation programme. Southnes Line 2 is an approved three-year implementation schedule for the 2018-027 system. Thus, the Energy Agency's permission is through Southnes Line 2 and, at the same time, the funds allowed by the Landsnet to be used for the project. Government policy, as agreed by the synopsis No. 11/144 and No. 26/148. For the main transport systems of electricity, the principle should be applied at the same time. Parliamentary Reconception No. 11/144, the government's policy on correction of electrical lines, and the Senate resolution of No. 26/148, the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems is to use air lines unless otherwise considered preferable, including based on technical or environmental or safety issues. In view of the environmental and safety considerations, each individual should be evaluated for the right use of a ground string on the corresponding line, or its specific sections on the basis of criteria for location and cost. A planned Southnes line 2 leads to the largest out of areas that the government's direction for the treatment of electrical lines is to use both a earthline and an airline. The only area that falls under this direction is within the urban border at Hafnarfjörður. With reference to the environmental assessment and the comparison of the environmental impacts of the main options and other options, it should be considered that environmental considerations do not compromise the government's principle of using air lines in the main transport system, especially since the costs at the airline are much lower than those of a groundline. Although the effect of the main option is greater than other options, there is no great difference in effect that it justifies the choice of much more expensive options for the longest part of the route. Available exports assume that a ground cable is laid between Hamlin and the Brass in Hafnarfjörður. This is in accordance with government policies that within defined urban areas, it is permitted to attack land cables, even though the cost may be more than twice as high as the airline costs. Thus, the option C is the most important option in line with the government policy mentioned above. Options A and B are not. National planning policy. One of the objectives of national planning policy on 2015◯226 is to ensure the safe delivery of electricity, while taking into account nature and landscapes. The building of improved Southnes Week 2 connections by Southnes Line 2 is consistent with this in the setting of environmental assessment to set out and look at options to identify the lines that best meet the provisional security requirements and result in the least negative environmental impact. The decision to establish improved connections has been made to evaluate the need for structure in line with the aim of national planning. Southnesian territory. Southnes line 2 falls toward the policy of the Southnesian region in 2008-2024, which is in the Swamps, Grindavirville, and Smokeytown. The main policy of the regional organization is to use current electrical transport pathways and is defined as primary seat belt on the Southnes, i.e. Southnes lines, Smoke lines, and black eagle lines, assuming that more lines can build up inside them. The main organization of the Vogga 2008 ◯2028. A planned implementation for Southnesline 2, option C, is in accordance with the main organization of the Lugga 2008 202028. 4. The increase in nature's range changed from April 2020. Since the arrival of Landsnet, the Institute of Organization gave a report on Southnes Line 2 report until the approval of the Organizational Organization was established in April 2020, and after that the time point, there has been a significant earthquake in Smokeynesi. Earthquakes as if they were volcanoes. Landnet has reviewed natural hazards in the environment, and in this passage it was found that consideration of the option B, a geological cable along the Rhine Way, did not cover all the strings between Hafnarfjörður and a Redamel linker in Grindavik. Following the Commission's opinion of environmental impact evaluation, there was a suggestion to put a ground cable north of the Smokey Way. Landsnet requested a review of the Top Lab on the subject of the possible effects of volcanic eruptions and land mines on the proposed monuments. Three major components of volcanic eruptions were examined, fire source, lava, and shock. At that time, special areas were examined at Voga, where an alternative line of air and a landline along the Southnes line 1 line is very low from the Rhine Way. The result of checking Top is displayed in the day's memo. On July 2, 2020, they sent the Volggle and Smokey Town. Looking forward to impact movement (earthly tremors), it is the assessment that a ceiling line is a far safer option than a ground cord under the circumstances of Southnes Line 2. In view of the current fire metabolism and lava flow, the risk is considered to be very similar to the options considered. Since the rate of demarcation in the region with permanent shock movements or agular movement is considerably higher than the rate of volcanic eruptions, it is considered more appropriate to refer to such events when evaluating bodies and geological risks at Southnes line 2. The above - mentioned memo Efflect explains the ideas of bringing up the lying ground cord north of the Rhines Way. The conclusion is that there is a high probability that there is no significant difference between South and North Smokenes Ways. Since the Top of the report, there have been great earthquakes in the region, strong earthquakes as well as volcanic eruptions. All of this supports an even greater option C over option A or B. 5. Southside line 2 and international airport. In view of the evaluation of the environmental impact of Southnes Line 2, the government considered building a new airport at Washingham. If it affects the shape of a ground cord or a ceiling line. It is estimated that it costs more than 300 billion dollars. Making a new international airport in Hassusun, while the cost of continuing construction at Keflavík Airport is over 160 billion years. According to a report by a group of service workers assigned to cover the airports at the southwestern corner of the country and returned their results in November 2019. However, if a new airport was to be raided at Hagshesun, it would still be necessary to continue some structure at the Cheflavour Airport. The difference in the cost of these two options for an intermediate flight centre is large enough to predict that the necessary economy could not be attained to justify the transfer of international flights from Keflavour Airport in the Washing Land. There is considerable uncertainty in long - term predictions for the growth of air traffic that will be taken into account. In view of possible plans for a world airport in Hagzall, it is clear that a new airport would not be ready for two decades in case everything went down. For the next few decades, therefore, there are two options: stopping or slowing the structure of the Chefavor airport and inhibiting the growth of the flight and tourism, or continuing to build up at the Cheflavour airport, viewing the cost as being sunk when a new airport begins, when and if it happens. Whether one option is selected above the other, in order to perform the current activities on the Southnes and the future, Southnes Line 2 must be under attack. 6th The implementation of the implementation of more than one unit at the time. In current legislation, it is not particularly important to address the implementation of the Commission when implementing, such as Southern Line 2, across several rural areas. To establish the current legislation that the implementation is subject to an independent implementation permit from each member of the country. Thus, even if there is a possibility, one rural society can stop work. in much smaller parts. The Government Treaty states that laws will be considered in order to ensure more efficient management of such electronic transport systems, including Based on available 7. A report on the use of land cables in electrical transport systems. In Parliamentary Reconception No. 26/148, from June 2018, on the government's policy on the building of electricity transport systems, it has been observed that a specialist should be received to make an independent investigation of the effects of different technical solutions to the fixation of electrical lines and the national efficiency of increasing the proportion of electricity transport systems to the ground. Is this in accordance with the emphasis found in the Government Treaty on the need to trust more fully the transport and distribution systems of electricity in the country, to connect key areas, to provide national delivery security, and to see how much more can be used on such connections in a practical way. In order to carry out this project, the employment and innovation services and the Environmental and Resource Ministry of independent of the individual forces, Dr. Hjörtur Jóhannsson, obtained a report on earthlines in electrical transport systems from the above elements. At the end of 2019 C.E., a report by the special person was given an open review of government confidentiality. The reports received and the complete report have been reviewed. The results of this report are, in short, that there is considerable electron length limits for the use of land cables at higher levels of electricity transport in Iceland. The primary reason for the extended limit is that bioenergy production is multiple times that of earth cables, which can lead to failure to maintain within line lines. This also affects the ability to mix lines of lines, i.e. Partially airline and partly Earth string. In view of the fact that neither the report nor the ensuing reviews because of it, there are changes to the criteria and principles applicable to the fixation of earth cables and airlines, as stated in the Council Reconclusion of No. 11/144, the government's policy on the fixation of electrical lines. They continue to define it as they have been. A respectable president. At the end: Southern line 2 is an important process based on national interest; thus, there is no need to reenact the urgent need to act on it. An unacceptable delay has already occurred in the language that has gone well in the system for years. Transporters do not agree that the environment's inhabitants will have to suffer a great extent as a permit for this procedure. Therefore, movers feel that there is a need for action to be taken in order to prevent further delays and to speed up the development and lay down, as it were, in order to legally establish the Agency's clearance to eliminate uncertainty. A respectable president. This bill's a lot for me, if you don't mind. Councilmen of Njáll Friðbertsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Guðrún Mersteinsdsteinsdóttir Hafsteinsdóttir of Þórsdóttir, Mist Mestótir Einarsdóttir, Berglind Guðmundsdóttir, Óli Björn Kárason, Harðardóttir G. Hardardótir and Jóhann Friðrik Friðurk Friðriksson. I'd like to suggest that the case be sent out anyway. Environmental and Transport Committee. I'd like to finally thank you for having had time to bring this matter here. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank all the many experts and staff who are forced to assist in making this bill so that it will meet the wishes of the people of the South and the careers of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u39	A respectable president. In 1st. 78th par. The Constitution says:•In accordance with law, establish their affairs in their own administrations. Legally, the organization is primarily under the control of rural society. According to the National Association's Strategy in 2018/2022, the European Union is one of the cornerstones of a community's self - control rights that should always be respected. The bill on this subject includes the granting of authorization by the Allied Parliament to grant the Landset project at the construction of Southnes Line 2 in the country of the Hafnarfjords, Grindík, Roinjanestown, and Voga. I am not going to express myself specifically on the material issues of the issue but only brings attention to the abuse of power presented here and even to the highest degree. Prior to World War II, a minister of industrial activity said in the media that he believed to be an option, although he is not a representative of the bill under consideration. The development and development of sustainable society and employment opportunities in the South are of utmost importance to ensure that the environment's energy security is assured. This certainly requires strengthening the transport systems of electricity in Southnes. There is no disagreement on the need for improvement in energy security on Southnes, but there has been evidence to indicate ways that are capable of doing things other than those that the employer wants to go and this is suggested to be moved by force. The bill shows that one community has its incomprehensible activities to prevent this important project. From the Commission's review of the case at the previous council, it can be noted that the company's ideas for consultation are primarily going out in giving the relevant partners time and space to accept their position. Real consultations, or attempts to settle seem to have not been taken seriously. An article with the bill shows that the local community is alone in this position, but it is clear, for example. of the comments given on the case, when it was presented to the previous council, that is not. These include reviews from the Federal Protection Agency of southwestern Germany, the Young Environment and National Protection, all of whom described opposition to the bill. In fact, national protection is so deep in this year that it calls the bill: a major example for professional decision-making in environmental matters, for the independence of rural society, and for the democratic rights of the public to make decisions that are relevant to them. Severe comments have then been made to the bill, as this includes the loss of the environmental impact process, a process established according to the EEA rules. The source of offer that is proposed by the bill is thus fighting the EEA deal itself. This would not be the first time Iceland's environmental initiatives broke down under the EEA Convention. This means that the public's ability to consult the Environmental and Resource Commission should be taken into account because of the violation of laws relating to the environment. A respectable president. So this is not to say that one individual is out of the unique sense of expertise in the way of important projects, so that such an overpower is needed. This is a suggestion that the Council employs its legislature in behalf of an executive against rural society who have made decisions that are in their hands under law and constitution. In any case, the material issues of this matter are being suggested here that the Allied Council abuse the legislator authority against the local self - control of matters that are very close to them. It surprises me very much that members of the council here represented by people of the country, who should be aware of the importance of the self - control of the countryside, are fighting against the legitimate decisions of a community of such anger.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u40	A respectable president. Here we discuss a very important matter that would have been handled many years ago. We live in the south with the sea that we have little to do in order to become powerless, and that we have to deal with other parts of the country, countries, or those we need to communicate with, except for the natural damage that can result from a business shutdown. I remember not many years ago a piece of iron on South Side 1 and made the Southnes all hit on one board for hours. This confirms the need for more benefits than just one line to import electricity into the area. And not only electricity into the area, electricity is also being exported from the region because we have a large and large company, HD Energy, which is responsible for supplying other parts of the country, companies and citizens of this country of energy. So, all along, I've been a sponsor for us to ensure that energy supply security, both into the area and from there. The country society of Réjanestown, where I have been in the town government for quite some time, made a decision at the time not to agree to a permit. Our reasons were that we thought that it would be reasonable to consider the views observed by the Company of the Volga, where one part of the line was requested to be placed in the ground where this area was not far from inhabited, and we thought it proper to agree with those views. On the other hand, we changed our mind and agreed on a license for our part not long ago so that a license for the fixering of the line is in place by the Smokey Town community. But it was totally independent of the fact that the country society should force a decision that it was not ready to take. And that's what I'm staying at this point. Hv. A senator who spoke before me mentioned the self - determination rights of the rural society and the organizational authority of the local communities, which I stopped by and I was not ready to write on this bill. You may have noticed that most of the council members of the South American district are associate importers on the bill, but I'm not among them. Why is this so? As a member of the local government in the city of Rhinenes, I would never, under any circumstances, want to have it taken place if it had been taken over by the local community's specialty and its planning. I just want to remind you that one of the main reasons that a highland park did not come true, including for the transporters of this bill, they were that by agreeing to highland park laws, they were taking the organizational authority from the rural communities. The evidence in itself is the same as it is today. It is in the order of an arrangement in which rural society cares for an organization within its rural boundaries. The bill shows that if the bill becomes a law, there will be special laws that will go beyond the general law that may be involved in the implementation of projectors. It may be considered that the bill presented here for implementation for Southnes Line 2, is an isolated procedure. I can't really think of it as a single intervention. Of course, doing this in this way, taking the law and the law rights of a rural society creates a great example, because Landsnet believes that by law they must always set lines as cheap as possible. It's been discovered in a storm that we need to revise this because Iceland is in a storm, and lines are falling, and electricity goes off, not just on the Southnes, but all over the country. I think it's time for this to be revised. The bill is talking about line C, which is only an airline all the way, but the rural Society would have been ready to go on the reconstituted route and have been taken under that route by a planning agency. An organization has supported the rural community in that it might be appropriate to go this mixed route because this line would be quite close to the community and, of course, it's a community, like many other rural groups, in very rapid growth and we don't know where the population is developing. So the Organization has agreeed with this, and in fact, it's spoken of as "C" perhaps the worst. It was also pointed out in the previous part of a talk that National Protection makes serious comments on this subject. The Land Protector Government believes that this bill is a very dangerous bill. I don't want to take it so deep in this year to say that it's very dangerous, but at least I'd like to say that I'm serious that I'm not out of the way to get it through, to take the rights of a community to get it out. It's important to me that the people of the city of Smokenes town that Southnes line will be created in some way. But I'm not sure that I'm ready to write down on it in this way. Why put a special law on a community? Why, then, must the law not change to allow Landsnet to be authorized to perform the task in another way? I don't think there's anything going on with the Volvens to support if they're starting to prepare, that the line gets to go through the country society of Vogga, I don't think they're doing anything about it. So I think it's normal for a person to stop and look at other ways that will make this line settled with those involved, the stakeholders involved in the case. There's been a lot of opposition to the country line tunes and lying to them whoever wants to. There's a double line there, but I understand that they're looking for something else to do. It has been noted that during the past few months, volcanic cables have taught us that ground cables could possibly be worse, but there is nothing. Despite the fact that some experts have said so, other experts feel differently. I think the committee handling the matter should consider these matters carefully and take note of all the viewpoints in the matter. It will never serve our best to treat others as rulers in our community with spiritistic thinking. It's that mine isn't thinking right. We will create examples, leading to a long future, which I find unacceptable. Navigator society is now beginning to talk simply about reevaluating the main organization and thus completely getting it out of the country. The community is not going to give up on the case. I don't think this line of work is something we should pass on. As important as I think Southnes Line 2 is, I think it's normal and we're looking at the possibility of meeting the country society of Vogga so that everyone can get along reasonably well. It should not be that the Landsnet can only roll over everything and everyone. This is an institution to follow the procedure set for the council, and we can, of course, just decide another procedure. If it has been so that the Landsnet must always choose the cheapest advantage, no matter what, there is a warrant, as indicated by the adverbal tradition, and it is being buried in urban areas, both in Smokenestown and in Hafnarfjörður, so it can be buried. So I don't understand that this case has been held to an end for years in litigation all over the world and anyone just to rule over a small community that has this legal right.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u41	A respectable president. I want to thank the advisor for the good move and the explanation of what it's all about. We must support the energy, transport and communication security of all parts of the country at all times and now more than ever before. This is a reference to building lines and the largest of our habitats in recent years has been made to welcome foreign visitors, which in the long majority of the world's most beautiful Smokebones. Let's agree to protect Iceland's noted beauty, the rich welfare community, who can afford to make things beautiful and handsome. What hurts my eye most during my travels through the country are these spectacularly high - power lines and those lines that cross and sludge and are actually a little early symbols. That is why I refer to my good friend, the venerator, that there will be simply a message that we want to hide this kind of wood as much as possible, put it in the ground, even if it costs a little more. Let's say, Control here is a beautiful Iceland, safe Iceland, our whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u42	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. It's very important to have the views that came out here, both of them as well as the rest of them. paritaprevir Kristínardóttir Anna Kristnardótttir Gunnarsdóttir brought along earlier, and so I understand the message that came out in a talk. paritaprevir Guðmundur Einarsson. paritaprevir My Jakob Magnússon, who gave a good report that we need to take good care of our country. I think we agree completely on that. All of us feel that our country should be completely virgin and that we can watch it and invite foreign visitors to see Iceland as it is and come directly from nature. Of course, we need to be careful that we make sure that we do not have to do so. We have set specific guidelines in this regard, and then we also have a technical problem that results from a long earthline. In recent years it has been reviewed with us at the council, on a professional committee, that in recent years, it is only a very poor thing to transport electricity to such large amounts through a long - distance earth cable. This has been the case in the construction of a ground cable over an explosion land and other routes. Electrically, if I use the correct name for it, it's kind of unfair. So it is clear that earth's electrical cables of this calibre, or this size, are disrupting more than air lines because a double cord needs to be placed out of security and noise in the lava. On the Southnes, we are told that if a cable is dropped through the lava, it will actually take another place off the lava and the Smokey Way. But I want to thank you for this discussion. It is very important that the Environment and Transport Committee listen to what the day's speakers said and agreed and pointed out. I fully agree that there will be a precise inspection. Most important, we finish this case because we've spent 17 years arguing about it, and that's what's not acceptable to us - 17 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u43	President. I'd like to call attention to something similar to what's been going on here, that's what this is about the strategy of rural society. It's complicated when it's a project across a number of rural societies, and it takes cooperation there to reach some conclusion in the construction process. Of course, sometimes a certain ruling agent will need to evaluate the best outcome. But the Golden Rule is that organizational authority is with rural society. I think that's too often done with the government. There are several examples of this, e.g. About Reykjavík Airfield. The cases that somehow want him to tie up here and there, despite the fact that there was a national election in Reykjavík and that the inhabitants want the airport to go away. There are also examples of national laws that could not be cited. But that is exactly what makes the population the most active and closer to the population, of rural society. It's supposed to be the most important thing. There we need to listen. While the conclusion may be unfortunate in the greater context and may make a little more money here or there, democracy is still more important. So I'd like to direct it to those who have taken over too long and very freely, since this class teaches itself to freedom, that it's the wrong use of freedom.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for fighting for this case for a long time, for 17 years. 17 is a long time. Living in poor quality of life for 17 years is a long time, and living insecurity for 17 years is a long time. It's the responsibility of this community and our responsibility to ensure the safety of the population. With the security of the people, we are also talking about making sure that the people of Southnes can go to work and enjoy their livelihood in the area. This has been threatened for a long time. Our international airport is south with water. He needs energy. From 2013 to 2020, over a seven - year period, the population of Southnes increased by 31% or by nearly 6,700 inhabitants. At the same time, just comparator, the population grew by 13%. The number of people in the South increased by more than 31%. And what does that mean? That means more energy, more jobs. We need to add the wood, and this is part of it. It is an important foundation of employment in the south with seawater. I mentioned the former international airport, Leifs station, the opening point for tourists to enter the country. It's the portal of currency income. There's also an important Icelandland of defense. There are many of the industry, the national infrastructure, the powerful sea - working roads, powerful food production. There's bio-fiction companies. There are ideas to promote it even further, and there are very ambitious plans for grand building on fish. All of this requires energy, and there can be no further development on Southnes if it does not exist. This refers to a line on earth, and of course it is the future. But she's expensive. She's worth a lot more. Scientists have also told us in the light of recent events that have occurred in Southnes that there is a significant risk of volcanic damage to land cables. As I said in the beginning, it has become a long, strict matter. It was issued in 2013. This can't stand waiting. I'm really sorry that these areas have not been able to make community partnerships for the well - being of the region. I will repeat my thanks to Ásmundur Friðriksson for having been a zealous fighter for this matter. So am I.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u45	A respectable president. The people of the Vogum are also Southernnes. At least they've been since I was born and even longer. They need energy. I'm also a Southnesian, and I'm going to look at it, although some will take it, that it's one of their special struggles because they're co-smoosts or traders on this matter, that I'm a fighter for Southnesjan II. I've been fighting for Southnes Line 2 for many, many years, but the point is that the course it's been given over and over has made it take a long time, 17 years, like a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson mentioned earlier. 17 years because the case has been resolved back and forth, it is not being handled properly. You see, the Landsnet has been reassigned to this court, so the Landsnet industry has not always been in harmony with the book, although you have a measure of sympathy for the views of trying to do things in a practical way. So I'd like to reiterate what I said before, that in my mind the right of rural society is very important and that we are not doing here some work that's going to be on the rights of these rural communities. I feel totally unacceptable and will not stand for taking the law rights of a rural society under any circumstances. I understand the general interest in this, and I understand that this is important to us. I know exactly what it's like to live out of work on Southnes. I know exactly what this means to us when I know that 25% of the companies who are going to start their business will come to Southsia but can't do it because of lack of energy. I realize all of these things, but I'm not going to be a local manager to run over the law firm the right country society. I can't think of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u46	A respectable president. This is about laying lines, and whether it's above ground or beneath, I want to, because it's late today, to use word pictures. Here's a fighter till he's 17. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, to hold this important matter. Ásmundur, the hand of God, the son of Friðrik. Something's written in the clouds, huh? Senator. Then comes the steepness of God, and here it is, in the name of the Company and the communities involved. But I am confident that there will be peace in this matter, that it will now be complete, be fully attained, though it had been before. The energy involved here, the electricity itself, let's review how it first rode on the Southnes, and introduced the bites of the Bellow itself, the electricalization of the music, and the subsequent occurrence of the bite, then the bite, the corrosion, which is produced there on a large scale. And there's plenty to it, dear Ásmundur, dear Guðbrandur, to do this, finish this with the zigzag that falls thousands of dollars every day, and we'll finish now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u47	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't know if I'm going to answer him about the meaning of our names. But it's like whisk. A senator says: There is plenty. I'm not sure that taking a certain part of this line will make the Landsnet bus on its side. We're talking about a few miles away, which is important to this community, but in the large context, I don't think it matters much. I personally sit as director of the energy and distribution company called HS hosts, and for that company it is important that energy be distributed where it needs to go. HS supplys energy at Selephoss, in Hafnarfjörður, and elsewhere, so it's important that things get right. But I think it's normal that we do it the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u48	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a very important matter, which means the whole country, the whole nation, and the economy, of great importance, which is the energy issues, the line, and the rest. There's obviously a lot of energy in this case. Only these laws end up in two kinds, both the Spanish law and the legislatator. You never know. The recent debate on whether there is a lack of energy, whether more activity, and all of that, is closely related to the distribution system. The situation is that in Southnes, only aquifers, who need power levels, such as hydro-engineers, and so on. At the same time, the large system also needs the energy from the Southnes into the capital area. So when we discuss energy, we need to discuss it from the rest. The hydropower, the diffuser system, the wind, and the earth's temperature, all work. If it were all right, we'd have a lot more energy in our system today than we have. Then we'd use our resources much better. This would reduce the need for further energy sources and reduce energy loss and waste and all of this, except for all the opportunities it offers. We need to keep that in mind when we discuss this. In this matter, we must also keep in mind, because I have heard that in the discussion today, three things I would like to come in on. First, it's somebody's fault that it's been 17 years and the past. I think we need to save ourselves that. Let's just see where we're going today. Today, the case has been granted permission of the Power Institute. On the basis of a permit that the Landsnet obtained from the Power Institute to set the line in a certain way, the main structure and geographic structure for the Southnes and the rural communities were set up there. The line is expected there, as Landsnet suggests. There's been a one-time act permit. The study failed because it was not an option. Now, the choice analysis has been performed, the whole process has been re-evaluated. That's the situation. We need to discuss the matter from the point of view, not what might have been better done in the past, though it is always good to learn from it, not when we need to finish this matter. So let's go over to the next one, that there's just no problem, even if things go on the ground, just as if there's no problem. There's some reason why this has been going through all this career and has taken this long time and that the Landsnet is holding on to the situation in spite of these oppositions. If we were going to switch to a ground cable in part of the way, we might need to ask again for the release of the Power Institute. This would require adjustments in organizational procedures. Then we may need to re-open a lot of bad ways. True, a century of earthquakes has started at the same time, so the safety of a line is much lower. Puting the line on the ground could increase national electricity costs, the exchange costs of electricity, about 2%. It's just a considerable increase when we're talking about industry and other employment opportunities. By putting this in the ground, because I was talking about taking up the planning and all that, other government agencies would come into the process, like assessments of environmental impact and all of that, we'd be messing with lava and more in nature protection. It's more natural to put it in the ground than it is to put it in the airline. A mesh line is much more reversible. It's just a big deal to change a horse in the middle of a horse, it's a lot of influence. If it flows over a landline, it just melts and it is difficult to repair, as happened in forest fires in Australia and beyond. The new building line, Currentic Line, stood by the Devil's fire. We need to keep that in mind. Besides, we need to keep in mind what has been said here today and that is to respect the organizational authority of my rural society, which I take to heart. We have to. We must respect the right of property and the means of organization. How do we respect the organizational authority and responsibility of our community when three societies are held hostage in one way? What organizational authority does Grindavik, Roinjanestown, and Hafnarfjörður have in this matter? I'm just asking. What about hunting companies and many remunerations and water contracts? If so, the person mentioned above must take into account what is below. That's the planning debate we're taking here. That's about as simple as that. We are just taking advantage of the bike that has been invented around the world, for centuries, that the neighbor needs to be taken into consideration by his neighbor. What happens in one place affects others. You can't pollute the river at the top because you've ruined the river for all the others. I just wanted to come up here and point out that there's been a lot of work already. She has been involved in something, has led to the best and wisest conclusion. Granted, it is not that everyone is content. It is usually difficult to make such a situation. Based on the practical considerations, energy grounds, technical views, based views, timely viewpoints, and particularly security grounds, three rural communities have agreed to the current route of land management. It's already been discussed by the decision board. The point is clear. So I think it's inexpensive to say that it's no big deal to put things in the ground, that it's just a lot more than that, and that you're going to be walking on the planning of your community when three societies are hostage. Let us make all these facts clear. I thank everyone who's been involved in this case and what. Ásmundur Ásundur Friðriksson, a traveling minister for bringing this up and making this discussion. It's just like with everything else, the discussion needs to be raised, and people need to be informed to get on with it. This has been through planning, allowing the Power Agency, environmental assessment and processes at Landsnet and other things. For good reason, this is the solution on the table. By saying that it is better to go in a different way, we are minimizing all these major pathways and the organizational authority of other rural groups. I look forward to a discussion at the council. I want to end this by saying that hopefully we won't have to finish the case here. We'll have to settle the case before we can settle it from the council. It's my wish. Otherwise, I hope that we will succeed in winning the case and reach its completion if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u49	A respectable president. For me, it's about the interest of the people beyond the planning of my community. We're talking about electrical security, we're talking professional security, we're talking about building jobs in this area. It's not just Southnes, we're talking about Elfus, Hafnarfjördur. This is so much bigger than the fact that we're taking the planning power of one community out of it in this way, because it's about so much bigger interest than that. I'm not gonna stand here and extend the discussion. I really understand the views that have been presented during the discussion. They are entitled to the discussion, and I believe it is important that the committee ignore them and ignore them. I repeat, it's electronic security and it's about so much bigger interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u50	President. It came here just at the end of the talk a phrase that made me feel a little uncomfortable, ignoring them. I'd like to pray. A senator to explain this just. At what? A senator's refusal to ignore the criticism that has been shown to protect his community's self - determination? Because those words were said in context, I feel that it is necessary to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u51	Thank you. A senator for this question. Of course, there was only the wrong use of words. Of course, such views should be respected and considered, how we can do so well, so that all views can be given at the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u52	A respectable president. Fine. It's important to be clear of these things. It was a little misunderstanding that I was only shaking over, so it was good to get it clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u53	A respectable president. I want to thank the senator for her word. We're on the ground, all of us agree on the need, it's already there. Southnes must be strengthened, not just there, in various parts of the country. I know the process quite well. I've been involved in this process for years. I think something special is saying, the point is so far away. The matter has come so far because people continued to do it without having the foundations established as they should have. To continue, the agreement was to be concluded with the local communities, and nothing has happened. So men are out in the middle of the river, just because they went off into the river. They did not finish what they had to do before they left. So I feel that this case is wrong. I'm just there. I understand, I need a Southnes Line 2, but I don't want her this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u54	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the assessment of insurance protection following a natural disaster. The motion is on. 12 and No. 12th Transporters plus those present are Ágúst Garðarsson, Ásthildur Lóa G., Ingi Þórarinn Gunnarsdóttir, Ólafsson Magnússon, Jódís Hrönn Sigurgeirsdóttir, Halla Sjörðurfjörðurfjörður Skúladóttir, Ingibjörg, Friðriksson Jóhann Friðrik, Rannveig, Vagn, Stefánsson, Wóbjöránsson, Wöfjörfjörfjörfjörfjörður Isaksen, Jófjörnarsson, Jófjörfjörnarlnasson Inga Pétursson Most members of the Parliament, as is heard by this list, are also one of the issues set before the Council Party and are being assigned to the program now in January, with regard to the case of a number of people in this country, as well as to rural areas. So the motion goes: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government from making an assessment of insurance protection and damages as a result of a natural disaster. The aim of this assessment will be to determine what is mainly lacking in insurance protection and cut-offs and to reduce progress. In particular, this assessment will take place on natural disasters during the last 10 years, but this assessment could be further defined in view of available information after work is started. The publication will be submitted in the form of a report to the Council no later than July 1, 2022. I'm going to grab down here in the report, but I'm also going to try to get out of her stuff a little bit when I account for this proposal. She was previously transferred to the 151th legislature Council, then No. 817, and could not attend the council, but now it is reassigned unchanged with minor and additional changes in the report. As we know, Iceland's citizens have always struggled with the forces of nature, and their living together with them have proved to be a challenge to the people of the land. During the past few years, there has been no exception to natural disasters and causing significant loss of property and management. It is enough to mention the storm in December 2019, which was the worst in the North and Pacific, but it had an impact in many parts of the country, the avalanche of Flats, a flood of the Þinga Islands during the fall and a flood of mud a year ago. According to the latest annual report on Iceland's natural disaster insurance, there were a large cost in 2020 14, but since 1987 such damage has been on average seven per year. As we know, the damage caused by natural disasters is often overwhelming and can prove to be too much for individuals or management, and if people or businesses in any part of it are unable to cope with the damage caused by natural disasters, the damage done to entire communities. Therefore, insurance protection from natural disasters is important as well as efficient and reasonable development right after the disaster. In recent years, many measures have been taken to protect themselves from natural disasters and to bring together insurance because of such damage. These include a variety of natural events, Iceland's natural disaster insurance, a flood fund, both the resources it builds up and the benefits it pays, and the funds it provides, which improve the damages of farm workers. In recent years the government's way of handling the consequences of individual disasters has become very difficult. At all this recovery, insurance bought by insurance companies will play into the protection, both legal insurance and optional insurance. At times, the interaction with these insurance companies is unexpected and unpredictable, but it is important that harmonizing is possible in insurance protection and that all processing is efficient and as reasonable as possible. At the level of damage done by a number of people, including the U.S. damage tolerance, insurance companies and funds, insurance companies, engineers with repairs, repairing contractors, cleaning, tearing and rebuilding monuments, governments, i.e. Companys, government agencies, ministry, even government. The cost of government spending and damage efforts increase as insurance management persists. In recent years, a great deal of experience has been raised that is important to learn from and use to improve practice. After the landscaping, there have been challenges that have not necessarily been discussed before, along with others who have been brought up in the past. There is an inconsistencies between those who lose their home in disasters and those who have to move from house to house because of the risk of disaster, i.e. shelters in the affected area and must be discontinued. There's a lot to tell us about the protection and insurance of industry, industry, and employment houses. Clearly, there is reason to evaluate these matters, and that is just what the movers think is time to do; an assessment of the interaction of different factors and how all the important action that comes together is experienced, whether there is holes, and whether there is a basis for improvement. Therefore, it is suggested that the government be assigned to have an assessment of insurance protection. Both individual and legal status are involved in events where natural disasters have affected property, damage to business, or damage to public infrastructure. All insurance protection, law-enforcement insurance, optional insurance and government insurance that, as mentioned earlier, can be overhauled, Iceland's natural disaster insurance, and the Saving Fund. In that case, it is important to examine the experience of recent work-changes, such as the Act on Iceland's Natural Drealmation Insurance from 2019, including in terms of repair to damage now facilitated according to progress of improvement. Some years ago, improvements had not always been used to undo all the damage done. The proposal lists 13 points that highlight a review of the evaluation. I'm not necessarily going to read these 13 points. Rather, I'm going to come up with a number of opinions that have come up lately, especially in connection with the landslides on the Sunbed, and in reality are essential to the fact that this 13 list is in the report. Like what? Congress officials know that insurance guarantees in Iceland's natural disaster insurance that property is corrosive. The building is generally fireproof, and most have a fire insurance deposit, where houses and interiors can be added. However, most people do not have loose burns. Therefore, these guarantees do not cover e.g. industry tools and tools. For most people, sunlight, even though large and large, are not burn - resistant and thus cannot be improved by disasters. Necessary natural disaster insurance to clean up mud and rocks from surfaces, approximately Four meters, so we can't be sure that we can clean up surfaces. Again, just to management. This can result in severe damage, especially because of non-burning, tools, equipment, even the building materials or raw materials of others that may be located in various places, on weights, or in tools or in shops. This equipment may be so that no insurance can cover it or it guarantees that natural disasters cannot be satisfied. Even the location of land may be relevant. Ships and boats that face disaster are improved if they are suspicious, but boats on land are often taken from that guarantee and cannot be improved. It belongs, for example. if they are working on land or maintaining. In natural disasters, management insurance seems to fall out of control, whether it means pouring out milk or stopping fish farming or stopping vegetables, it seems that there is no compensation. In the wake of a disaster, insurance companies have refused to improve unless they can trace the source of the junk that flew. This may be difficult, since a flood has caught everything in one place. True, natural disasters have improved such damage, but there is obviously a gray area that needs attention. So there's a lot to think about, and this is by no means the complete list I've been through here. As a review of these terms suggests, the need to evaluate the correlation in response, potential holes in the system, what is not improved, why and at each cost of cleaning and other post-mortem activities. The aim is to increase efficiency, equality and fairness in the processing of damages as well as the means to improve information sources and education to those living in a natural disaster or to have had disasters. Then you will find suggestions on possible actions that will help you to be more equal and reasonable and to reduce the number of solutions resulting from vague rules. A respectable president. It is important to reduce the number of grey areas as possible, though the inexplicability of nature is likely to prevent 100%. Options for improvement, e.g. This includes a change in laws, regulations or regulations, better communication, education and presentation projects. In this case, although repairs are made, it is important that property information be recorded in an orderly manner. I sincerely hope this proposal succeeds here at the council. Cumulative knowledge and experience are needed for further improvement. Finally, I suggest that the proposal be referred to the Economic and Business Committee, but I think it is right to do so and to point out that the contents of the proposal are also relevant to the work of the Environment and Transport Committee, and possibly more committees. I believe, though, that the interaction between insurance protection and the coverage of this interaction is best at home with the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u55	President. A very interesting controversy proposal, and I wholeheartedly agree with the goal of reaching out for an explanation of the insurance protection we live in here. Let me give you an example of this and then just a variety of natural disasters during this talk. Let's start with a variety of disasters. I didn't see it here, but I think it should be considered, too. It might go into the welfare committee field, that the epidemic we're going through right now is a single natural disaster. I believe that the damage that we as a community, as well as individuals, will be caused by the epidemic, by the various limitations that have had to be experienced, also in this obvious direct relationship with employment and such, could somehow penetrate what we would be able to sort out as natural disasters and call natural disasters insurance and something like it. We agreed on a set of bail terms, e.g. Vaccination. It was relatively low, and I don't know if it's important, at least I'm not worried about the guarantee, but it's there then, which is very important. I see in the coming years the need to analyze the consequences and how the epidemic has affected our community so that we can react sooner than later to their harm. This is similar to the conditions that creeps east of us or the avalanches west of us; the epidemic is on its own. Thereafter, construction takes place. It is also part of something that guarantees. We're about to enter the season of this epidemic that the building phase, what collapsed, what just happened, has to be built up again. The sooner we know exactly what we need to focus on in that assignment, the better. I just want to add to the fact that the natural disasters are there, too, in the epidemic, that I think. The other information I would like to talk about is insurance terms, which are the heart of this suggestion, referring to the kind of possessions that have not been gained and why. That's what they're talking about. If we think about it, insurance terms and prices are totally off-limits when it comes down to public insurance. As a result, I had a request for this case at the 148th legislature, where I asked about the SEC surveillance with adequate consumer protection in relation to the requirements for such protection. It was there, for example. asked about what could be done, i.e. The F.O. could, as an option, monitor bail and whether it worked. This suggests that if SEC does not have the resources, because there are plenty of other tasks to be done - e.g. was full of other projects around the crash that had to be done -- then it can not be kept in check; we'll do it as we can, but we can't right now and we'll just skip it. Monitoring this is of utmost importance, since the transparency in the terms is extremely high. The consumers cannot, by any means, find out what the price is, or as I asked here in question 8: Does Ministers believe that in accordance with good business practices, insurance companies do not have a manifest list of public and online funds? A minister believes that companions are not obliged to demonstrate the value of their services, their lips, in a clear way, such as. in stores and oil companies? The answer, with President's permission: When it comes to the price of insurance products, it is not standardized prices, but it is based on pay paid for business ventures. This is an interesting wording that rhymes very much, for example. The medical talk in the United States, where health insurance is private. In this regard, insurance companies may place individuals at risk, and as a result, they have to pay higher fees. There's a record of damage and other factors taken into account. For this reason, it is not possible to have a currency. I really don't think it's acceptable. This can't be like this. We must be able to compare prices and prices for insurance. I certainly know what I'm paying for insurance right now, but I must always be able to see it, exactly as with my electronic bill, if I buy electricity from another server, I can see right away whether it's cheaper or not. I'm not supposed to have to call all insurance companies and ask them, "How does my insurance cost look? And get them on the phone with some client who's taking up information, who I am, and how my damage story is, etc., or as it was said; by my risk profile. I don't understand why it needs to be done. I don't like it because it's just a product that's being bought. It's no different than any other goods. I think we should take advantage of something later to fix up the insurance business because it's not useful. We don't know if we're actually being cheated. Finally, I'd like to ask why this synopsis proposal is not just a report request. I kind of feel like you can ask all of this in a file request. It doesn't necessarily require a committee coverage, but it will only give the council a direct vote on this and the Minister will have to provide this exact information, conclude that the review and aim of the assessment is to identify certain things and look to the last ten years. It's just a fine content of a file request.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u56	A respectable president. We live in a country where natural disasters are frequent visitors, and global warming will only cause them to become more frequent visitors. So it is important to make sure that appropriate improvements are made to those affected by natural disasters. There has been extensive developments in the handling of these issues by other countries. In this regard, there are specialized reimbursements in the field of natural disasters that the World Bank served as a regular pioneer. We have also seen that the assurances offered today do not cover all the types of natural disasters that may take place here. If so, a fresh memory of the storm that swept through the land near the end of 2019 C.E. included farmers, for example. only to achieve improvements due to damage to housing but not to loss of livestock. And I don't remember what happened to the treasure fund and fences. You see, today's natural disaster insurance does not create a storm. It may be interesting to examine it, especially by the influence of climate, since we can expect to see more of such a storm, whether it needs to improve the guarantees available to those who lose a lot of things in those times. Also, such things as insurance values need to be examined. I'd like to talk to you about fire gainers' food. The reason I'm talking about fire reform is that in Iceland's natural disaster insurance, there's a lot of talk about rebuilding prices, but it's exactly the same as in the burning-mortem law. Brunning evaluation is the material value of house property, which can be destroyed by fire, and the cost of building is based on age, rupture, maintenance, and status, as well as the cost of cleaning the eschar. The text in Iceland's Natural Disaster Insurance Act is very similar, except that it speaks of clearing away the surface or other items that have come on there. Baseline review is recalculated annually, then updated monthly according to the change in structural index. There's quite a clums, especially in the capital area where prices for housing have gone up very fast. I took e.g. My own property, and I saw that if it arose today and it was destroyed, I would receive only 66% of its value. The question is, why is it so low, and who is benefiting from this low fireback assessment? Not the landlords who lose their houses on fire - where I should find these extra 34% to buy me a similar property, I don't know where it is but the insurance companies who don't have to pay out the same when it gets damaged. I wonder if it is even similar with natural disaster insurance; if there were a disaster in the capital area, if people could get their possessions paid at a realistic price. It is necessary to make better corrections before the next disaster and to live with a big loss, a third loss in my case on my property. I'm an associate of the bill, and I think it's the best of all, and I hope it will lead to better protection from homeowners of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u57	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the members of the council who have been involved in the discussion on this subject. I think it is important to gather and process information, so it is not sufficient to get a report on the subject but to work together with information on what needs to be improved and suggestions on how to do it. I think it's important that all of this happens quickly because, in the past few years, much information has been collected. Information is needed for damage to your health. You need to get information to a contractor. In many areas, insurance companies and local institutions need to be consulted. It's at the temperature of the Environmental Ministry that's at Iceland's Natural Disaster Insurance, which, in fact, I don't have the clear location in the management system, which is natural large parties. And it's all about the pros. I also felt very important. paritaprevir Leví Gunnarsson Björn came into view in comparison with the modern - day pandemic. It is a natural disaster, but it is different. However, I feel that there are a number of ways that we can use both sides, and I feel that the way governments react to the disasters of the epidemic highlights what has been lacking in insurance as a result of landslides, avalanches, etc., that is what has come up in the business. It may be just because of history, but there have been far more problems with the business than with people's homes, so much more work is being done there and many things you could watch has been solved in the disaster of the Korean epidemic. And then we pulled our tail. A senator's attention also to the transparency of terms of bail, and what I wanted to draw out in the introduction was when insurance terms influence what is guaranteed according to natural disasters insurance, what to say, partly put a power on the transparency. That's part of what I think can be much better informed and more transparent about what is guaranteed, both in homes and in the commercial world, indirectly through optional and legal guarantees and through these joint insurance guarantees made by natural disasters. But I don't want to forget how much progress there has been in the short period of time and actually a revolution from what was a few decades ago when we did not have such insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u58	President. As indicated by the synopsis proposal, the review will be submitted in the form of a report to the Council no later than July 1, 2022. This is, to some extent, a report request, but still a synopsis proposal to report. For those who do not fully understand the difference there, the Council is with several means of obtaining data from the government or from the Commission, i.e. with a written request, oral inquiry, a report request, and then clearly in the form of a synonym. At the time of the General's study report, this was concluded by a committee. So there are many ways to get data on things. I was, for example. with a request for the indications shown in the General's study reports, how they had responded. I expected this to be very accessible because we arranged nearly a billion dollars in making these research reports, and you would have thought that the tips that were presented there were something people would take seriously and react and that they would be held in some organized way, which would then not be. They had to go to a lot of work and took two to three years or something like that to take it together, which was very interesting to themselves. This is exactly what is not there and has to be done in some way. And when it takes ten weeks to do that information according to a file request, it may be more appropriate to have a special interpretation of it. But then I find it really interesting, considering how the council can ask for information from the European Commission, how it is in the sense of the amount of data requested by the Parliament. This is an interesting suggestion in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For answers and fine speculations, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson But I think that the very advantage of the proposal to the council in the form of a synonym is that it calls for tip, formal and informal, to the council in the process of reporting. As noted, the proposal was first submitted in June last, and it was published with good indications. So it's even what works to do this in my opinion, and then to make the proposal a part of the program means that it will likely be discussed in the next few days and will call for tips and comments that can improve it. Of course, at any given time, it may be possible for you to ask for more information. But as soon as I began to look at these matters, as the list of gray areas indicates, tips that came primarily from Seysardir, that the project has countless smells, and there are many people who have to gather information if they are supposed to be exhaustive. I have received advice from other locations of the country on the subject, as well as on these vague boundaries in the implementation of projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u60	Mr. President. I've asked for a few questions here at the council, and it's always surprising how they are handled. We have a deadline for written queries, 15 working days, so you may not always know when you ask if you can respond to the inquiry within that time, and there is a regular reply from the advisers in which they say: "We want more time, even though the plan may not have been to get any exact answer that the Ministry needed more time period than 15 days to do so. But you should not wait until the last minute to answer, or even longer, that you have also heard of the reality, that there is simply no work in the inquiry earlier at the last minute. So you wonder about the need for the council to receive the information they ask for, and it's so remarkable, as it is. A senator put it here with the reviews, that the person we get most information from is the one we're supposed to monitor. So sometimes you wonder if you like. Requests or even inquiries are not something that might even be asked about, some other kind of answer, or something like that, for perhaps not all know, but they can all come up with reviews about the whole matter of Congress, i.e. Congress proposals and bills, and why not also about queries, reports, and anything else?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u61	Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. In itself, I have not wondered whether it is wise to request a report request, but, of course, it is the way of our members that you rely on the information of people in the whole community and often get very practical tips, whether by e - mail or through the media or on community media literature. Of course, the work we do here at the Council is all about our dealings with people and about getting information from all those who are interested in providing them and who are willing to present them and allow us here to process and use them. Of course, we should always be thinking about the most efficient ways in the Senate work, both formal and informal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u62	Mr. President. I'm here offering a proposal for the council to conclude that the Allied Council concluded to hide a social and employment minister making an assessment of the cost of setting up holiday houses for micro-energy pensioners in designated locations in Iceland. The labor movement is especially looked to as a model. They will work together with the NGOs of the disabled people, farm members and the labour market members. The need, the scope, the cost, and the possible means of financing will be evaluated. No later than May 1, 2022, a minister of the Council presented the results of this report. Mr. President. That's what my suggestion sounds like. This proposal has already been submitted and has not been replaced and is now revised without change, unless the minister's title has changed, but it does not alter the motion. In the 1940's, the terms of the holiday of paymen were passed in the collective agreements of several unions, followed by such regulations. Even then, a few unions had already attacked holiday buildings for their members, but the structure was slow, especially if you look to the northern models. In the early 1950's, Hermann Jónasson's son's government went in a specific way into the holiday building with direct contributions to the labor movement's holiday chest and promises of land to build up. The result was a handsome summer house built in Elfus, which was used in 1964. Since then, labor movement has ridden orbs throughout the country as much as it has given its members a fine opportunity to enjoy a rest in their leisure time in a wholesome environment. Although the importance of vacationing away from home is clear, the access to disability - pensioners to such services is limited. There, both design and access to holiday houses, as well as the fact that use of holiday houses is generally linked to involvement in the labour market and to a trade union. Microenergy pensioners are also many of the people in commercial groups of society, making it even more difficult to rent holiday houses on a free market. The growth of tourists in recent years and for Covid, and we all hope to be back now when the country begins to rise after Covid, did not reduce the problem, but can be expensive to rent a holiday house on the free market. So, with this suggestion, a minister is assigned to check the cost of installing holiday houses for micro-organic transplant recipients in the designated locations in Iceland with good access and a manageable price, so that the availability of microenergy pensioners will be comparable to that of the members of the country's union. I think we all know what we've been able to do in a cabin what a good thing it is for the soul and for the feeling of breaking up the daily and going out and enjoying vacations, either by ourselves or by family and friends, in a good summer home, and it's important that all social groups have such resources. I'd like to state that this proposal is extremely modest, since a minister is only being assigned to start preparatory work. It is, however, work that is very important because it is important not to create a holiday house just for micro-organists but all the biosaturation mechanisms for the frozen access to houses in order to benefit all disability groups and to guide the absolute design. So this is an important basic work with this suggestion is being proposed. It is quite a group of senators who, along with the one listed here, follow the motion. Transporters are with me. Senators Bjarni Jónsson, Guðbrandur Sveinbjarnardóttir Einarsson, Guðmundur Ingi Gunnlaugsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Sæland Bjarkey, Jóhannsson Olsen, Gunnarsdóttir Þorbjörg Sigríður Harðardóttir I'm going, Mr. President, not to make this suggestion any more than to hope that it will get a good career, but to discuss an important matter. I suggest that this discussion be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u63	Madam President. As fine as this suggestion is, I get this feeling that I'm really against myself, that's doing this or that, that's on them. You can do both. It would be possible to erase the word "orlofs" and say only the residence of a disability donor. We have a small problem with housing at all. I don't want to say it's supposed to be, but it's not for both. This may have been what I have mainly to say in terms of the matter. I'm not gonna say anything much more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I wholeheartedly agree that there is a need to continue working on housing in general. Fortunately, there are some activities being done to make up for Empress, the House Fund of the Micro-Lowing Community, and the rural communities have been building and preparing housing, but I will surely agree that much better if it works. Waitings for homes are way too long. I believe, though, that the general dwelling should be in a special place, with so much more to discuss. I'm afraid that if you ask a few questions in one of the council hearings moved here by a member of the General Assembly, there would be little happening in the holiday house. I think better, to be successful in both fields, to accept this proposal, which, like I went to my background, is much more modest than would hopefully be the beginning of the development of holiday buildings. Still, the other matter must be taken firmly, making sure that all disabled people and the desperate have made sure that they have built a good home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u65	President. I'm going to go over the point that I was going to discuss in answer to what happened. A senator earlier. I had a petition at the 147th legislature for a number of social apartments. But repeated inquiry from previous years has often asked about it. Five years later or so, it might be nice to renew it. The answer shows that there are 136,423 containers in the whole country, of 5,065 social apartments, or 3.7%. It is very informative to examine where they are, where the highest ratio is, and also where the lowest ratio is, e.g. there are 35 apartments or 0.7% Garville. It's not the lowest, it's 0 in Grimnes and Graffun's Snoops and in the Helgafells Company, which I don't know whether it's understandable or not, but there's at least not a lot of that apartment. There are 9 social apartments or 9.9% in the city's barn. It is also remarkable that in the capital area, if we go there, Kopavogur has a ratio of 3.4%. I don't know if there's a high enough ratio. Reykjavíkurburg is in 4.7%, and as far as I know, Reykjavík has the highest percentage in the capital area. That was 2017. Skagga Beach has one of the highest ratios, 33 apartments of 214, or 15.4% apartments. No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's a River Valley Rock with 22 social apartments of 42, 52.4%, no less. You wonder, though, if your community has few or no social apartments available. We have heard of certain failures in people who do not have access to services due to disability or factors that make them need a social flat. This may be due to circumstances that are not available in the countryside. If it's just a political decision not to build a social apartment, as you think it is a certain smell like in Garða, there's an entire 35 social apartment in 2017 -- something may have changed, it's just fine to update this inquiry and get new numbers and see what's changed since then -- that's all very interesting. What is done in return? Is it just to be expected that only people with high income and who can pay high responses that live there will be released from all social resources? It's the rumor you've heard, that all this is being rolled over in Reykjavík, and that she has such a ministry. There's no great deal of business, I'd say, and cause a very high-level failure and a tax system where there's a very obvious difference between rural partners, some don't necessarily collect the maximum response because they simply don't build a social apartment where people live with lower incomes that have access to such apartments. It's also about choosing a farm, if you go out for a little bit of freedom measure. For example, if this is someone's birthplace, the place where he grew up, it may be difficult to obtain a lot of money and thus may not be able to buy an apartment or live in the rural society in which he has lived because social housing is not available. This may be less associated with what is going on in this council resolution, but it is about the housing of this group. In a larger context, we are also dealing with a lack of housing throughout the country. It is missing about 4,000 apartments, according to the analysis of the Homing and Mobilization Agency as planned by share loans approved during the last term, to reach up to ten years. I think it's a little long. It was supposed to reach 300, 400, 500 apartments a year by means of resources. Yesterday's response showed that there were 300 apartments. A third to two thirds of that number is needed to reach the goal and to make up the number of missing in ten years. Then we're getting closer to 20 years if there's a plan for population development that's usually not happened so far, it's usually gone a little beyond that. It is likely that after ten years, although we would be able to build 4,000 apartments, there will still be a lack. It's good to be a little on the run if there's an increase in population, so that we could improve. It's good to have space. In that case, increasing the emphasis on the construction of social housing could help, such as. in the form that it would be not only renting but also renting. It could then be used to get new apartments started, which would then turn the public market into place. It would be a measure of wind or cycle of new structures that might be in that system. I think it would be a very convenient arrangement if we thought only about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u66	Mr. President. It was an interesting tour by a dog. A senator on social housing, which is worth all. As I said in the past in this discussion, I support the growth of social housing throughout the country. However, I feel that it is important to keep housing matters private and disabled people not merely social housing. Social housing covers a much wider group than the disabled and part of the disabled when it comes to housing is generally available to public apartments based on the general market. The growing number of apartments alone is not necessarily an answer to all disabled people's problems or disability, but it certainly connects with one another. The bioavailability and the universal design and the requirement for it all from us, just so that we can invite everyone to our home, is of utmost importance. And I'd also like to mention that I don't think summer vacations or holidayes should be extra product until all other things in the community have been fixed, because that alone is the ability to change the environment. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator, because he only turned aside to the proposal itself, whether he supports this evaluation, and then hopefully the building of the holiday house for micro-evolvers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u67	President. I thought that in the opposite direction, I like both of them. I feel that I have to do both. That's why I also wanted to put it in a larger context, which is a problem with the housing market. I thought I had been quite clear that social housing is not just for desperate or older people, if it didn't come out clearly in my case, it's generally just people with no other choice, for whatever reason. But there's some way we can get in there. I think it's important for people to realize that our pension system is based on the special policy, which means that if we're going to get everybody into the social security system, eventually the pension system, when people stop work, etc. or whatever it comes in there, it really needs a place to be safe, preferably in debt, secure. Otherwise, social security or pension payments do not cover livelihood. It's as simple as that. That's why I think of the idea of, for example. The business of social housing is considered a means of bringing people with less income into the pension system, in fact, i.e. the half of the pension system that isn't through taxation, pension or social security.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for leaving no doubt in his mind the suggestion, although he used his speaking period to discuss the matter of housing in general and other matters. On the other hand, I feel that, like I went through both the headlines and the answers, it is extremely important, no matter what else we may have to work on, that we also consider that the desperate and the disabled can enjoy going to another environment and vacation like the rest of the country. I think it's very important to start the assessment, which can then be used to build such a system because quality of life increases so much with it. We've talked a little bit about the induction of prosperity and a part of prosperity, and being able to do a lot of day-to-day work in a accessible and affordable environment. Therefore, I believe it is important that we be successful in this particular, and in that respect, this special proposal is submitted. Of course, we continue to improve the general interest in pensioners because it is important for a good society. This small, specific matter, however, is not to be stuck on larger issues that need to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-19-24.u69	Mr. President. It was an interesting speech in opposition to prosperity, and being able to access holiday facilities at an manageable price when the ideal pensioners have not even followed pay development. I think it's kind of ironic when it comes to it. I don't know which is the chicken and which is the egg there. An appropriate price would probably just be 0K, first one, first good, in applications or something like that, some point system or about the same, because I don't see that people who are in pensions are capable of going into all this equations. If you're going to follow through on this, this may be available to someone who's not only bound to advance social security. I don't know. Yeah, I think it's really cool if this were possible, but that's the whole context we need to know about, too. The problem is that this group of people does not have a forward to all others, so they do not have the same potential as others, their ideals have not been up to their salary development as for everyone else. Somewhere, we must first solve the problem, and I believe that it can begin in many places, not just in either, or, this or the other, that there must be one or another. There are many things to choose. We can do many things at once. This suggestion is one of those things, definitely.
