ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u1	Before a vote on abnormalities, the president intends to have a vote for the length of a meeting as outlined here at the beginning of a meeting. The president proposes that a meeting meeting can last longer tonight than the People's People say and was asked for a vote for that proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u2	So on the 3rd session, the matter was distributed after April 1 and the deadline is not yet up to 3 mg. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. ... thencalleda 5-day rule. Besides, it hasn't been two nights since the administration of the bill, cr. 1.mg. Thirty-seven. Congress. So a vote needs to be made on whether the matter can be taken on the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u3	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill on citizens' rights interest. All-American and educational committees received 136 citizenship applications at the 152th legion council. According to 1st mg. Section 6. Act on Icelandic Civil Rights, No. 100/1952, the Allied Congress will legally administer national rights. The committee here suggests that 19 candidates will be granted citizenship this time and will place their names on the requested Senate document. I would like to take this opportunity to wish these 19 individuals heartfelt happiness. I'm gonna have to thank you too. paritaprevir The Birgir of Thorns' Þórarinsson, Jódís Skúladóttir's daughter, and Arndís Anna, the Gunnarsdóttir of Kristínardóttir for a well-worked job, who were members of the General and Education Committee and conducted these applications. I also think it's necessary that we show up here that this is the list that has been set up for Christmas. So there are more applications that are inside, and it is our will on the General and Education Committee to provide this also before we finish our work here for the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u4	A respectable president. I want to be here, like so far on the sort of thing I'm going to do, and I'm going to admit that I'm going to stay behind the case. It involves, not the individuals now granted citizenship on the basis of law, but the comments I have held here from the time I attended a council regarding the procedure we use. Then there was a new smell in comments to the way these topics work during this council, which we all know too well. I just hope that the arrangement under which the General Assembly will arrive will be reviewed for a change from the past year to the year's election. Other than that, I sincerely congratulate new citizens with Icelandic civil rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u5	A respectable president. I've been in the habit of defending this process when I suspect it's going to be critical, and that's why I'm coming up here. It is true that in most countries there is some kind of emotional power to give civil rights, and it is true that this is a cause for concern. After sitting on the Subcommittee on the granting of citizenship, I know that a lot of work goes into evaluating and discussing applications and fewer people get around. I'd also like to keep it in order that it is in the Senate custody of extending civil rights. It is the council that has decided to hide most of these applications from a administrative agency. This process is under attack from the executives. As soon as I congratulate all new citizens, I also wish us here in this hall to thrill to cope and protect the role that the council has and will not, and should not give up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u6	Madam President. Thank you very much. The financial and economic secretary Bjarni Benediktsson for the history of this case. The bill touches many things, and I was going to talk about just one of them, which is what is discussed in III. section of the bill on the growth market of small and medium-sized enterprises. But before I do, I would simply like to mention that even though this is a long and perhaps rather complex reading of a variety of little changes in surveillance role and what you need and what not to do, we must not forget why these changes are happening. Most of them are designed to increase market transparency but also to facilitate monitoring and to set up more specific financial institutions on how to do business on the market, something we really need to do. We saw what happened when those demands were not as rigid around the crash as they were in the leadings of it. It is therefore important that we introduce these changes into law to ensure effective monitoring and better consumer protection on this market. However, I wanted to be quick to talk about this growth market in small and medium-sized enterprises, as it is always nice to think that what the EU calls small enterprises is an Icelandic standard, and what they call medium-sized enterprises is rather large on our standards. It is this way, when it comes to innovation, that it is important to have different ways for an enterprise to get capital. Some companies, especially technical companies, choose to go to the so-called index funds while other companies prefer to take the market route, which is what is being introduced here into III. section of the bill. V.E.G. A minister named before First North Market, which is just an example of such a market, on which there are today six Icelandic companies, some new ones, some of whom have decades of history. There are companies like Hampinjan, Kaldalon, Claps, Green Solutions, Play, Southern Fight Company and Solid Clouds. It's interesting to think that there are six companies, since only a few years since we had only 12 companies on the market in Iceland, in fact, they're up to 20 now, including. ... forU.S.A.T.A.T. We have six small and medium-sized companies making similar financial gains through the market. Of course, going public is complicated, and we can probably get stories from the highest level. Minister and Bank Office on how complicated it was to go into business on a large bank, or company, like an Iceland bank. That's exactly what they're trying to match in these regulations and regulations around the growth market of SMEs, i.e. that they do not need to develop a 500 - page document, an invitation document, which describes everything that needs to be described in such a complex process. So they get a discount on what needs to be provided, but they have to have enough careful data to invest, whether it is public or professional investors, which is the word that everyone knows after this week, who are allowed to participate in buying in such companies. This thus reduces the formal requirements for companies and also the costs. It is expensive to register, but these costs are being cut down. At the same time, there are certain requirements for these enterprises, that there is a market in the stocks, and that it is actually possible to do business with these small companies. It is hoped that more small and medium-sized companies will use this route, especially because markets in the European economy, such as the First North Market, enable them to get capital, not only in this country, which is sadly limited, but also to the landstones anywhere in the European Economic Area. Although this is a long, rather complicated sentence, about the implementation of the directive and the number and the other, etc. Since the EU, this introduction, as well as the fact that this bill will pass, hopefully the result that innovation in the country continues to grow and thrive and more opportunities to register for markets, which is yet another way to achieve financial support to ensure that the innovation of the land thrives.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u7	Madam President. I talked about this as being a fairly broad bill, but maybe not necessarily that would have as much effect as the size indicated. Whenever there are such big and long bills, it is difficult to determine which points matter. V.E.G. Minister's discussed, including... There is something that has been discussed in this sector since the collapse. Of course, it is important that laws are placed, not just in regulations, so that there are no incentives to break rules or make things look good on paper because the bonuses come in there. It is also important in the bill that it is being introduced equally pay form or equal pay policy in the financial labour policy; it is something of great importance to be in as many areas of community life as possible. Not only are big financial companies being confiscated but there are also changes to the rules for smaller financial companies, and it is important that things like business and other things be confiscated. But they are also very important, and that may be what we have mentioned, the changes being made here and there in the law to ensure increased monitoring, to ensure the stability of financial companies, and to ensure increased transparency when it comes to the work and functioning of financial companies. Speaking of them, I'd like to refer it to the committee that gets the case to him, which is probably either an economic and business committee or a financial committee, to examine the costs of financial companies of all types and sizes, but the lack of consumers has been made to understand where they are taking the cost of the various objects. For example, we can take money that we place on our special property funds. If 1% of the cost is taken every year from the special property manager's fund - we may start at 20 years of age putting money in there and then it takes 40 years to take it out - it can be a question of many millions. Those of us who are old enough and remember the advertisements on growth and growth, perhaps also learning at school, that the cost each year affects the head position, and then comes interest in the next year and the next year. Sadly, all too much, and this is something the authorities in many parts of the world have been considering, is about this hidden cost in various parts of the financial system, which often costs consumers a fortune without really knowing about it. It's like the highest. A minister noted that this is a series of European regulations, many of which have become almost decades old. We've been sued because we're not good enough to finish them. It is my hope that these bills will be handled well but also that we will ensure that there will be monitoring, consumer protection and anything that will be involved in these regulations as early as possible in the Icelandic law of consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u8	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalise a change in the laws of loyalty and pollution, the fish farms and the environmental assessment laws and the estimates. The main objective of the bill is to address the perspective of the EFTA (ESA) monitoring facility for temporary fish farming. The bill was written in the Environment, Energy, and Climate Organization in close cooperation with the Food Ministry, but the plans for the legislation and requirement that the bill was presented for discussion in the government surmountation and in the discussion section of a paper are presented as reviews and responses. On April 14, 2020, the EFTA Commission published its provisional status as a result of temporary and temporary release from a work permit to operate fish farms. The preliminary results of ESAs depend on comments due to certain rules in fish farming and the laws on loyalty and pollution prevention and that they do not agree with the EU Environmental Assessment Directive as interpreted by the European Court. The findings that led to the core interim outcome of ESAs were in a way that a temporary cut-off for dysfunction had been granted to two operators in fish farms, particularly to prevent irreversible damage to valuables. In accordance with the laws on the protection of fish farms and the laws on the loyalty and pollution control and the disposal of sectoral wastes and the pollution control directives, there were reports of permanent work permit, and the limitations of environmental impact would be adjusted in accordance with the failings indicated by the Commission of Environment and Resources Directives. 3/2018 and No. 5/2018, where the license of the party was canceled. In accordance with ESA guidelines, under the EU Directive on the environmental assessment of implementation, these temporary measures should be allowed in the legal setting but limited conditions should also be specifically stated in the law. The directive does not directly address the consequences of implementation on the basis of environmental assessment, but in the European Court's implementation certain minimum requirements have been developed and taken into account in this bill. The changes proposed in the bill are primarily relevant to the provisional measures in cases where permission has been eliminated due to environmental limitations. This includes meeting the laws on the environmental assessment and the estimates in the government's opinion and having the right to the exception of a judicial hearing. The bill makes it clear that provisional sources will only be provided that all adaptations of environmental assessments are necessary to meet the requirements for environmental assessment. A review of the environmental assessment should be performed at the beginning of the procedure. It will only be provided temporarily in exceptional circumstances, such as to prevent waste of valuables or accidents or for the sake of public interests and urgent financial support is needed. The public's access to the decision-making process is expected as well as the provision of provisional sources for provisional measures from a Minister to the institution, i.e. The EEA and the Food Agency, thereby being charged with the decision-making committee of environmental and resource matters. The bill also provides the above suggestions for specific changes to the environmental assessment of projects and programmes. These suggestions are in line with the changes proposed in the rules of fish farming and the laws on loyalty and pollution prevention and the proposals for increased clarity and correction of certain limitations. These are proposed changes to VI. section A-shaped, on the method of loyalty and pollution prevention, about the amount of carbon dioxide in the earth. These changes are due to a total of Icelandic governments at the EFTA Institute for the implementation of the European Parliament directive and the Council for the storing of carbon dioxide in the earth. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be at 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u9	Madam President. I want to go straight to the bottom line. This bill is created because Iceland received a formal reminder letter in a so-called contract violation - it's EFTA◯ case - because of the application of this parole or regarding this licence. I wondered, in view of the prehistoric situation, because this case has been brought about because Iceland is considered to have violated, at best. A minister would consider going a different way than the one that has gone here? Because you somehow feel that a project made on the part of the surveillance agencies is being established. Will the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u10	A respectable president. This is the ultimate route. Environment, energy, and climate minister felt that it would be most successful to follow these ESA statements because of certain factors relating to these licences. Of course, it also explains that there are conditions for a permit. All correctations of the environmental assessment of the relevant Member State will be implemented and the environmental assessment will be fully adjusted to the beginning of the project. The comment is that form. That's why the highest number is. Ministers that this is the best way to respond to ESA results and to comment on the formality of this project, but it is not being made up to self-administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u11	A respectable president. I understand the highest. Ministers to the highest estimate. Environment Minister to react to Iceland's breaking up in this way about the fish farms, i.e. that there have been findings following a complaint directed to ESA due to provisional and temporary release from operating permit. Iceland is thought to be fragile and reacts to these fractures by improving the fractures. But that's what it is. Environment Minister is doing with this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u12	A respectable president. Since I'm set up today's Environment, Energy and Climate Minister, we, as I understand this matter, are making comments and fixing the process and reacting to it. It is not merely a validation or a change because of the comments. Rather, it is the process to make a comment, not the exceptions itself. For the permit element, there are very clear conditions on the environmental assessment and additional public access is being added. Rather, it is just responding to the comments made by itself in order to make it clearer to have the need to improve environmental assessments as well as to improve the quality of the public. So no, with this, the fractures are not being restored.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u13	Madam President. I'd like to take this chance in return to the highest level. Minister, ask about one specific point in the bill, and that's what it's about to happen to the public. Do the public have the right to make comments about the process, comments to temporary licences? One of the points made in ESA opinion was that the right of the public to get their views broken. I can't quickly see that this fault was fixed in the bill. The report says, with the permission of the president: In terms of public participation, it is noted that the public is expected to have access to temporary permits measures. The general public also has access to the final legislation and, depending on incidents, to improve environmental assessments. However, it is not clear, Madam President, how this court is guaranteed. I'd like to know if it's the highest. A minister may not necessarily be aware that the bill and the law, once changed, ensures that the public's viewpoint is evident in the process and that this is done legally so that they need to be taken into account, e.g. In accordance with our commitments in the Frason Treaty, and this is quite a part of the bill, so it won't cause trouble in time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u14	A respectable president. I feel like we're reacting to the fact that the public can have access to this process with this share course because the temporary permission team is taking part in a system where the public can have a very important access to the process. These changes and responses to the changed process made in reply are being made to respond and strengthen the public's access to the provisional period of communication. As a result of the bill, the public has access to decisions on temporary releases.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u15	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm gonna go check it out really thoroughly in the head. Environment and transport committees how this will be achieved exactly. We know that communication processes do not always serve their purpose, although good goals have been set on paper and the purpose is to be clear. How this discussion works is of vital importance, and most important is it to the inhabitants of neighboring communities. If the inhabitants of neighboring communities have a legal right to present their views, they need to be discussed in the process and to listen to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u16	A respectable president. Of course, the core is that the lawgiver does not provide a way around the obligation to perform environmental assessment. We are talking about a work that is in good faith, ended up going through the process and getting green light, and this clearly indicates that the public has access to a temporary decision. However, public attendance is also strengthened by the fact that the conclusions of the Food Agency and the EEA can be called into question, and the public can also make comments on the proposed decision. With these changes, we are also taking into account EU judgments that have come in these ways and respond to these comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u17	Madam President. In short, the bill is being submitted, and if it becomes legal, the permit members will be allowed to allow temporary leave before environmental assessment or if it is found that environmental assessment is a defect or, third, if environmental assessment has not been required. This worries me very much, and I think it's important that this bill has to be thoroughly examined at any moment. Environment and Transport Committee here for the treatment of the situation. The objective of the bill is to trust the source that ESA, EFTA monitoring, has made serious comments and aims to reduce the impact of environmental assessments on fish farms, as a result of its existing regulations and application here so that fish farmers can, as a matter of fact, assume that environmental assessments will have no consequences other than that they will have to improve these limitations later on evaluations. This has reduced the motivation of these enterprises to help with environmental assessment, unfortunately. It has been noted that the legislation will lead to the development of potentially more difficult and inadequate work and environmental data, confident that the licences will allow them to be temporarily allowed without first performing a valid environmental assessment. There the dog lies buried, Madam President, that the permit is temporary. Once activities are started, people have gone into operation, expectations have been created, and often irreverent environmental damage is very difficult to cancel. It is urgent, Madam President, to prevent the provision of the provision of temporary licenses without valid environmental assessment. This issue is about the evaluation of the environmental impact of implementation in an unscrupulous way, in an adequate way, and hence, if allowing temporary policy, it lies in place. It is being legally established, if this bill is legal, the access of the Food Agency to avoid the decision-making committee on environmental impact assessments, if kept defective. It's a very serious matter and it's actually being legalized by a food management agency to overlook environmental and resource decisions. It is simply unacceptable and cannot be passed by a government decision like the Environmental and Resource Commission. There is, in fact, a key point here in my comments and in the Union comments on this matter that no doubt about the fact that adequate environmental impact is the prerequisite for granting the permission. And also, as mentioned at the outset, that a faulty assessment cannot be acknowledged, let alone release if the assessment has not been performed. This may not be very complicated, but the past is difficult, and the Icelandic government received a clear warning from the EFTA Institute of Monitoring on this issue that is now being tried to deal with. And it is very important that the government, the Environment Ministry, responds to ESA indications and recommendations, and it is not at all trying to establish a project that will allow managers to avoid the necessary steps for major projects, which are most often causing significant environmental impacts, to make an adequate assessment of the environmental impact of the Agency. We must ensure professional, decent, and legal work in this process, as well as in everyone else. It should not be so that the zeal that has soared men in many parts of the country, and I'm going to admit that I can understand that in many places there is an interest in building a fish farm and an interest in promoting domestic and domestic activities and throughout the country, in the beaches where fish farming may be at home, the result of a lack of professional activity. It is far more important that the decision-making process be carried out by law and the evaluation of environmental impacts and that the government allowing, the permission team, will take full account of the results and assessments of the Agency's environmental assessment. This includes improving the decision-making of rural governments and in this case legislators who are Food and/or the EEA, making decisions on implementation with the least impact on the environment, with sustainability guided by natural protection, and with long-term social interests. You see, the assessment of the environmental impact of a project is not just a box on a worksheet that can be checked and done in some way. The examples prove that when the decision is made at a government agency in the south, while the results will be low in the east, for example, a close - cut example, there must be a clear way to make comments. It is obtained through an environmental assessment and is also obtained, as noted above, in the answers to the highest level. Minister, by the fact that public opinion is definitely expressed in the permit department itself at the Food Organization. It has to be fine, and this bill has to be designed to make them both secure. Otherwise, the lawgiver does not, in my opinion, respond to the indications and recommendations given to governments from ESAs, both in 2018 and again in 2020, after he had consulted the ESAs. You owe Land Protection for doing that. The letter of admonition delivered on December 15, 2021, included the application of the viewpoint at ESA's preliminary status, which is, as it were, due. Councilmen know, the first step to a formal violation of contract agreements in the EEA Convention. The next step, then, is the publication of a logical opinion before deciding whether the case is referred to by the EFTA Court. It is very important to respond adequately to ESA decision so that these next steps will not occur and that the government of Iceland will not be drawn to the EFTA Court in this matter. I'm telling you that Iceland's interests, the interests of the public and the interests of the corporate industry in fish farming, the interests of the precaution, the professional practices that assess the environmental impact of the Agency ensures and that the regulations of the European Convention are met. All of this is a major process necessary. It is not, nor can it be the principals, sometimes more vigorous than foreseeing, for the good of these processes. It's not like that. It will always be the best conclusion that professional practices have been taken, that this legislation, if necessary, will be ensured, and in this bill, that ESA indications will be answered sufficiently and it is clear that there is no way to provide temporary permission without an assessment of the environmental impact of implementation; that this is done in an adequate manner and that it is realized that in the license process, the public will have access to it with their views. Madam President. These are the main points I wanted to present here at 1st. about this bill. I'd like to say here from a pita that I'm counting on a representative. The Environment and Transport Committee will process this situation to produce a bill that everyone trusts to support and establish laws and that we can control these projects and control the environmental assessment of fish farms and its breakthroughs in an adequate way. There is no doubt in my mind that such practices will bring us better projects, less environmental impact, and a community that hopefully, at least In the vicinity of the community, there is a greater reconciliation with the project. And I'm not saying that there's always a problem between everyone and her. But we have the examples, e.g. From Seyster's land, a divided society because of the way it has been done. There is also the cost, Madam President, when small communities are broken down by projects that are certainly controversial and are causing a very negative environmental impact, when the project is being done, but it should still be granted the permit. So, what do the locals do? People must have the tools in their hands to promote and influence objective viewpoints and that the permission department must listen to public opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. A senator on the importance of environmental assessment and this bill would like to ensure that it will be careful. I want to correct that it is not that this license is granted prior to environmental assessment but when environmental assessment has taken place and the permit holder has received green light. But if there's a problem in the assessment the day comes, this warrant, which is an incentive to do a good job, can be used because the permit holder is talking about having an approved assessment and then being granted a permit. It is very important in this discussion that we also need to be careful because we understand all the importance of environmental assessment. If, in turn, allowing an action under the law to be canceled because of some limitations on the environment that has taken place in which green light is established, the Agency, at the request of the operator, can provide temporary clearance for the implementation in accordance with these conditions if there are compelling reasons to do so. However, there are very strict conditions for starting a temporary process, and this is not to be a form of unauthorized action, but on the contrary. This is a key and one of the objectives of the bill is to ensure that the legislation will not escape this important obligation to implement the environmental assessment. It is important, and it is key in the bill to ensure that the legislation will not pass it by. ESA believed that the law could be understood that way, which was carried out in accordance with ESA's view. The ESA's comments may have served to protect the lyrics of the law primarily. Then the average level is built into it that if there's a lot at stake, e.g. started, being given the opportunity to beat in the failure rather than simply be deprived and to lose a lot of value. [[The president calls.]] So here it is being promoted to the importance of the environmental assessment and to ensure that there is good work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u19	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. Yes, it is good to know that there is no one who wants to practice unconventional or to ignore what needs to be done. However, it remains that this is a time of legalizing the way for provisional regulations. I may not have made it clear in my earlier speech what concerns me. The story tells us that the decision had been made; the Environmental and Resource Commission decided to cancel the employment permits and work permit for Fjondalax and Arctic Sea for breeding in the seas in Patrecksfund and Twelfthors. Then they responded in a way that gave them the highest priority. Secretary of the seas, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, proposed a bill for changing fish farming laws, which included a special permission of Ministers to grant temporary access. Then it was cherished, and ESAs succeeded. Perhaps it is the core question in this big and important matter: Is there a need for a preliminary license? That is a question. I ask myself, " Has the minister's reaction in 2018 been correct? ' They went through here, and there was nothing to say, but the ESA responded. Isn't it very often, Mrs. President, that once firms have obtained temporary permission then, as previously observed, it is rather easy to argue that it is, for example. rich financial interests and the harder it is to dismiss licenses? I think it's important that we take it into the picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u20	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator's confidence here in the environment and transport committees to work well on this matter. I will certainly not leave mine there within the table. I stopped at one point in the history of the senator, who I think is key. It is not for the sake of their own benefit that they once appear to be overlooked by the good rules and customs of the permit. You see, it's not just about protecting the environment and protecting the rights of the public, it's also about company sitting at the same table, e.g. that the company does not get the word that they have been allowed to ignore rules because they knew the right person, but another company next to the same operation may not have the same thing. So all of us must want to circumvent every bypass by monitoring as narrow as possible. I'm concerned that by attaching this as a permanent way, we're in a much more dangerous area than the ones that ESA spanked us. There was no great bill either, but it was about a relative incident, in fact, in which the evidence could be given that the loss of value was about to come. [[The president calls.]] It's not like when we're putting public laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u21	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for this answer. I truly share the senator's concerns of a permanent way of passing. That is really the essence of this matter. I wasn't here at the General Assembly in 2018, and the senator knows this particular example well, and it may have been logical to give it to them, but is it justified in this kind of law? Of course, it is the challenge of the Parliamentary Committee and of us in this hall to take a stand on it, to discuss it in detail, and to take a stand on it. I'd also like to agree with the perspective on the importance of the appearance, by following the rules and regulations, and especially by making assessments of the environmental impacts of action correctly and sufficiently, because it is also about the appearance of the product we are selling. And then we're only about to Iceland's reputation, if that's what it's all about. Businesses seek the Witnesses to demonstrate the quality of the products they are selling, and they expect all companies to follow laws and have the best look on these topics. The more important it is to be committed to the process, do it as well as possible, and thus provide a better result for the whole community, environment and businesses. At the end, I want to agree with it as well. A senator said of the equality of the companies and that it is not a law that makes an equal playground, as it were.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u22	Madam President. I think that the reason we have to be on guard in these matters is just the story we have, especially when environmental impact is assessed. The Environmental Assessment Act is far too weak. There is no brakes on bad projects, they are flaunted as bad, but they can still roll. This is a reality that was entered into a law that actually leads to a permanent bypass in the process of temporary implementation around one particular project called "Crumb's Reactivation. " I think that's why we should breathe a little bit in our abdomen and see if we really want to fix this kind of thing to the future. The minister answered earlier and stressed that this issue was not about unnecessary environmental assessment. However, this is a small thing because according to the bill, a environmental assessment needs to be made, but it can be started even if there are defects in the evaluations. Then I will say, Madam President, that is not an environmental assessment. It is not a mature environmental assessment if it is a defect. Based on a defective environmental assessment, it should not be initiated. Or is it not some kind of prince we can pile up a little bit? It's such a short time, Madam President, but I just wanted to talk to the Minister about what this case is all about the public's access to decision-making in the environment, because Land Protection and the rest of the organization referred to the natural issue to the Conspiracy Convention as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's any less of a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u23	Madam President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's co-ordinated fear of these materials as it comes to an assessment of the environmental impacts of national, legal, and other activities and the way it was and has been tried too often to compromise their legislation. This provisional principle, as noted, did not escape proper environmental assessment. It is not finished or has a defect in the evaluation, but it can still be obtained. The natural dog is buried in this case, and there we need to set very clear boundaries. It has to be answered, Madam President, why in the world there is an idea that can usually be written into legislation that companies can be granted temporary licenses without any evaluation of environmental impact. The assessment of environmental impacts is a natural procedure for all major projects, no matter what their names, all the major projects requiring permission, whether from the government, MAST or the EEA. I feel a little sad that these decades after we finally had a European Commission assessment of environmental impacts, and then the environmental impacts of programmes are still being found ways to allow developers to go beyond those necessary. And at whose expense? It is usually at the expense of society, at the expense of environmental protection, though perhaps. I'd like to make some bucks in the desert.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u24	A respectable president. We need to first examine the context of this subject that is discussed here today. On December 15, last year, the Icelandic government received a formal reminder letter from the EFTA Institute of Observation, which is very clear on the Agency's assessment that eight articles in the EEA Convention for environmental impact were violated when the law was forced through the Council on one day in 2018 and then carried out, a law that actually granted advisers the right to issue licenses to fish farms without adequate and valid environmental assessment. I think most of us here who participated in this discussion are familiar with the background. The Committee of Environment and Resources had decided in the fall of 2018 to cancel the employment license and license of the Remoteax and the Arctic Sea Farm for farms in the Patrek and Towers, and the Commission also referred to the Commission's request for a continuation of corrective effects. At that time, a marine emissary took a very high level of action and proposed a bill for changing fish farming laws that included a special authorization minister to grant temporary access if a previous license was canceled because of a limit to a permit. In turn, a natural protection organization complained to ESA that in the spring of 2020, this report by the Minister I went over was not in accordance with the European Commission's directive to assess the effects required by the government or private people may have on the environment. The conclusion was so addressed in this letter in December. This includes, of course, the violation of EU legislation to provide permission for implementation or activities under environmental assessment laws without valid environmental assessment. By decree of the European Parliament and the Council No. 2011/92 shall be in Member States prior to granting a license to accept all the necessary measures to ensure that activities likely to produce significant environmental effects depend on the requirements for implementation and assessment of their impact on the environment. This preliminary outcome from 2020, which was actually put in the letter I mentioned earlier, on December 15, of the past, includes the violation of European rules for intervening Europe. The democratic right of the public to have something to say about the natural world and how we walk about our environment. As often as the European institutions, the European Union's institutions, which we are involved in, were protected by this right of the public while it was actually Icelandic politicians who violated this right, by laws totally contrary to the established guidelines for the assessment of environmental effects that we and our neighboring nations should support and have committed us to support ourselves. It is very important to fix this and the problem now in any of the laws that have to do with these specific things. Otherwise we are at risk that Iceland will be dropped once again to EFTA Court and not for the first time, for violating environmental assessment regulations. We are here at the Council to stand by this court of the common people and stand by nature. She's the one who's supposed to enjoy the doubt. In the bill mentioned earlier today, my main goal seems to be to trust the source, especially to strengthen this source that ESAs have made so serious comments about. I can't understand this bill any other way. This is actually a major reduction in the environmental impact of fish farming policies. It is being pulled out of this process all the way through its current regulations and application so that commercial farming companies can, in fact, assume that the end of environmental assessment will have no other consequences but only to them that they need to correct these limitations later in life by further evaluations. It tells itself that these companies are being reduced to the challenge of environmental assessment. I don't think anyone can deny that this bill must be affected. It has been suggested that such legislation can directly lead to the implementation of the executives, in this case, fish farms, will further bring in only poor working and inadequate environmental assessments, confident that the permission team will grant them temporary permission and without first performing a valid environmental assessment. This has been shown to be in the highest court. Ministers that such a permit must depend on the fact that there is much at stake. But isn't it always a little at stake when it comes to fish farming, that doesn't say itself? Because I know the highest. A minister is still in this house, I'd like to ask her, although she is not actually the minister of this seminar class, but I'm sure she's quite well aware of the relationship with people who know well and is the spokesman for this bill here today, and is direct to her, whether she is now responding to an answer or some time later, whether she is convinced that this bill will always meet the statements of the ESA, the EFTA Center, has not agreed on my understanding after going over and comparing these with the EES Convention's rules, and those that it is always required to be the conditions of the environment before allowing permission to be given to be an environmental assessment. There is room for postprandial food to be kept very limited. I'd like to ask a minister if she would agree with my assessment and then, in view of the key, as stated in Directive No. 2011/92, the requirement for performing or working permit for activities with considerable environmental impact is that a valid environmental assessment has been conducted prior to granting the permit, this is a key element. Maybe I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister if she has no concern about it, if this bill is to remain unchanged and in the form that has been submitted before the council, that it may lead to the risk that Iceland will be brought to the EFTA Court in the coming years. I feel like we're starting on the wrong end with this bill. Above all, we should be making more sure and more confident about these processes, these quality processes, on environmental assessment. The rules for such follow-up evaluation must undermine this prince's assessment of environmental action, as well as for public participation rights and the right to revise decisions that have considerable environmental impact. Similarly, I would like to direct the question to a minister, whether in answer to an counter or at some later date, whether she feels that the public could have some practical access to permit such temporary therapy as recommended in this bill. It's interesting to hear how a minister envisions all of this. I took note of this document discussing the legal plans that the provision for temporary permission is valuable to save. But is that not evidence that could be applied to any willingness? This must undermine the purpose and aims of the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources and the rights of the environmental organisations, on the behalf of the public and nature itself, should be ensured by the Ascension Convention and the Environmental Assessment Directives in the EEA Treaty and by the actions resulting from it. This is what I'm a little worried about when the lawgiver and the execution authority respond to the comments made by the EFTA in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u25	A respectable president. Like many others, these tracks scare in this way. I just want to review the sad history that took place in Helga, where it was thought that all metable conditions had been met. It included the Environment Agency. Enclosed as well as planning, employment permit on the basis of their reports and environmental assessments. Even so, everything went into the propeller. At times, it is being laughed at, saying that there is a need to reduce the number of surveillance workers, but when such large jobs as this is called, fish farming, which can have a significant significance of money, the pressure is, of course, to provide authority on the rapid and effective implementation of this activity. But by this it seems to me that this is how all the people are being left behind, so that envelopes will not be put out there, but some political prosecutors may have this to do and control it and put pressure on it. Are we not on the wrong path by making such exceptions?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u26	A respectable president. Yeah, I think I can take my mind off what's to worry about. Senator. As I can see this, this bill kind of creates an environment, i.e. legal and regular environments, which may actually get temporary clearance, although it has not been able to complete a proper environmental assessment, since there is a great deal at stake. But what if, so to speak, the environment actually comes under operation? Then there is little to do because there is so much at stake, and everything is on the move. So this bill is creating an environment in which the improved environmental assessment will lead to a permanent license, as if it were somehow possible to foresee the future. Of course, we'll get the case into a committee and get reviews about it, and we'll get a clear understanding of it, but it seems to me at first we're going to have a bad case. That's the best I can see.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Seven. The law, on temporary work warrants, stands by permission of President: the EEA is allowed in exceptional circumstances when there is a pressing need for action and then something follows. The report of the Agency shall be followed by a review made by the National Competent Committee (HCP) ▪ by events? What does it mean after the events? When it's convenient for them? What does it mean when there is a pressing need? Who will define this urgent need? Is it the Environment Agency? Is it the one involved, the driver? Yeah, I need to get started right away because it really matters money. I have to pay my loans, and I have to get the factory started right away. And what does this mean for the relevant health care committee to get such pressure on themselves, which can really mean that companies go somewhere else? Is it not just a matter of unnecessary pressure on small rural governments or small health committees around the country that are unable to handle their role because of the ignorance of legal procedures? I experience it a little, so it's just that it's making pressure that units like little health committees just can't help. As I've said many times: The country community, though large, just couldn't get a factory like this herbal plant started. It just takes a lot more than that. There has to be a subjugated system, in my opinion, that's holding this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u28	A respectable president. I have somehow come to believe that the EEA Court is rather clear that environmental assessments must have been conducted before authorisation is granted and that the state has a very limited scope to allow such evaluations to take place afterwards. I think it must be contrary to the spirit of previous rules if there's only any way to avoid this, because the environmental assessment failed or because it was willing. So I think this bill needs to be examined a lot better. And as mentioned earlier, all I'm worried about is that Iceland will be drawn to the EFTA Court for passing a rather clear environmental court.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u29	Madam President. I want to thank you. The senator of this history tour, which was at his beginning, reasoning on the situation of 2018 when the stakeholders were given legal regulations to save valuables, as it was logical. In this regard, I think it is important to keep in mind that the decision that the provisional principle involved was, not about the overall issue, but about its expansion. It was about a project that began despite a known problem on the environment, although it was known to be a complaint. There was a measure of love to the well - known defects in the evaluation, and the evaluation was started anyway. I would have thought that rather than trusting the authority, the authority to ignore good rules, we should learn something else from this example. We should learn to have a clearer timeline drawn into the laws on when to start on the basis of environmental assessment. Whether or not we need to have a deadline. Whether the charges should, e.g. that you delay a court order; if you haven't received an attorney on charges you can't go on course. Would we not be in a better area there if we were to act in such a way as to protect the interests of the public, which all these regulations are to protect?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u30	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator just hit that nail on his head. If we are to guide the interests of the public, the interests of nature, the interests of future generations, we should first emphasize the importance of improving the processes to which environmental considerations lie. This has been the case in Europe. As I said before, I feel like we're starting on the wrong end. This is, in fact, the law of the Food Agency to shun a decision from the Environmental and Resource Commission, which says that the assessment of environmental impacts is being maintained because it is a legal arrangement that enables the Agency to overlook the decisions made by this committee, so it will only be needed for some particular purpose because it is so important, a great deal of value to be saved. While I'm not the one who answers, we don't. A senator would like to abuse my situation and hear from him - I'm just curious to hear what it was like when the law was forced through in one day. At that time, he was still in the left - handed movement, a green supply. I would be curious to hear from him what the atmosphere was like here and how it was pressured into the Senate, what evidence was used to show the need to continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u31	Madam President. Yes, recall how the provisional law was given. It was a little action, I think you can say it, as always, when the law is set in one day. I was at the exact time in the left movement of ◯ green supply and shall only admit to me the crazy thing to have trusted when the environmental secretary convinced us that this was entirely a care for the interests of the public. It would be perfectly fitting for the views of nature protection and environmental protection. After thinking about it, it may have been a little too big. On the other hand, we may have a lower threshold when it comes to a preliminary solution to a problem that has been run over to feel that there is a great need to respond to. But the situation is quite different when we're putting in general laws, as is suggested here, and general laws that do not necessarily need to cover this kind of operation, this could probably leak into a variety of functions. That's where we've come to drawing up a pattern. Foreign Minister of last year dropped Palestinian refugees on the street, but they didn't have a legal warrant. They will respond by presenting a bill to support that legal authority. In medical institutions, patients are under compulsion to handle legal and human rights obligations. The minister of health was going to place that authority on the law. [[The president calls.]] And here, the public has been placed in contact with environmental decision-making, it should only be legally bound to pigs. [[The president calls.]] Always in the wrong direction, not responding to our faults by making things better, but by making the faults legal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u32	I don't know. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u33	.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u34	A respectable president. It is very important that we learn from what happened there, three years ago, isn't it? And make sure that the mistakes made then will not be repeated and will in fact receive permanent value with the legal requirements that will put them in place of this project, these rules which actually include the implementation of EEA principles on the environmental impact of action. I trust a world of Congress can unite in this and that there will be significant changes to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u35	A respectable president. I believe now that the situation here at the General Assembly is set up that Mrs. President should interrupt this meeting so that the heads of the Council can sit down and decide together to conduct a professional investigation of the sales of Iceland Bank. We need to find out that a common decision will be made to establish the World Council investigation committee. Just this was a news report on the reactor, where Sigríður Benediktsdóttir, who served on the General's Research Committee for Bank Drops, said that selling items in Iceland banks to small investors in a closed discharge, violates the laws on the sales of financial institutions. She says: ▪ On the basis of this, someone has to shoulder responsibility for having authorized this, as well as for dealing with individuals and ehf., because they are not in accordance with the laws and buyers and traders, they could have been clear as well as the government authorized to do so. Madam President. I demand that we now take a break at a council meeting so that the presidents of the Council can sit down and agree that this is no longer enough for the General Commission to go into the stitches. This is corruption, Madam President. Looks like there's a law here that's been broken. We have to take this seriously. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u36	A respectable president. Sigríður Benediktsdóttir says it's a runt of 3rd. ... andmaybe 2. ... ofthecommunicatives. In the 3rd. says: When making a decision on the preparation and implementation of the sale site, the open sale procedure, transparency, objective and practicality should be emphasised. Practically, the highest price or market price for property is applied. Care should be taken to ensure that conditions offered are reasonable and equal. In that case, sales should strive to promote active and natural competition for financial markets. The letters were sold at 117. Today they stand in 128. 5 billion there. Is it transparent? Is that normal? No, it's all in black and white. It's against the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u37	A respectable president. I agree that there will be a recession at a council meeting so that the council can deliver the promises of yesterday and give up today's miserable excuses and be left alone to set up the World Council Research Committee. Like what? paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir testified that a violation of the government's holdings has been established. I'd like to quote these laws just because it's the highest. Ministers have also appeared in the media and said that he makes confession, i.e. not to have talked to his father in advance about buying a share at the bank. I'm sorry, but the law says very clearly, by permission of a president: When an offer is made in part of the estate, the government's Department of Banks shall provide the prime minister with a reasoned assessment of it. The minister will decide whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract on behalf of the state... In other words, he could have refused his father to buy an item at the bank he was selling. [[The president calls.]] The mistake was not asking Dad to buy a bank. [[The president calls.]] The mistake was when a minister used his power and agreed that his father bought a bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u38	Wait a minute. Councilmen to respect the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u39	A respectable president. I agree with what's been going on here. We are suddenly discussing this bank sale in a completely different context right now, following the step of the Sigríður of Shirley Benediktsdóttir. She was a member of the General's Research Committee. She's an economist at Yale's. She has many other experiences of working in the financial sector, working at the Federal Bank. It goes so far as men have not been doing much here in this public talk, just talking about the need to break up some of the sales that went through this campaign. This is a whole different context facing us after this event. In fact, there is another article on the core that speaks of an invitation inconsistencies with OECD's proposal for personalization. There is a recent article there, too. I agree with that. We must insist that the matter now be reexamined, and it cannot be more than that governments and governments will respond in a somewhat decisive way. We must examine the context of things today. This is radically changed after the arrival of Sigríður, the daughter of Benediktsdóttir, in such a decisive way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u40	Madam President. It's the last day before Easter break, half a month before we get back. We cannot divorce this situation as it is today. We need to use today to negotiate that this will be the General Research Committee, which will go into the stitches of this case. You see, the dissatisfaction is of many ways and the suspicions. In effect, people are bitten by what appears to have been committed. Of course, the public is offended, just because it brings in sharp memories, and during these two days, things start to remind me of things when you're moving. You always think you're going on your last trip to get the last part of the apartment, but there's always one left. I don't know where this is gonna end. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. - Even Madam President. I'd like you to take advantage of the fact that there will be a meeting of the council groups with the presidents, whoever they are, just to make a deal with the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u41	Madam President's asking why. Once again, members of the council respect the session.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u42	President. When we are in doubt as to how serious this matter is, we have - it cannot be doubted anymore. A news report will help us to see how serious this matter is. It is the right way to put together a research committee under the General Assembly, and it also shows the public that we take this seriously. It creates credibility around the whole process. So I completely agree to the request that we interrupt this meeting and that council members meet and find a solution in this case, for the reasons for getting a public accountant to look at this matter first for some reason, which is not worth it, are, in effect, kind of smiling. [[The president calls.]] We know this is a serious matter. We can see how wrong things went, and we need to study the matter completely. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So let's pause, Mr. President, and work together on this to strengthen confidence in this process as a whole. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u43	Madam President. Criticism comes from all over the world, and weight increases. I remind you again of the highest word. A prime minister who spoke of this situation as being normal when critical questions were heard. But they also need to be answered. It is not enough to hear the questions. The credibility of the process is read, and then it must be crediblely investigated, which includes the research committees. It is a powerful means and means by which the Council is responsible. The strongest thing the government could do right now to deal with the anxiety, to meet the criticism, to answer the questions, is to give credible proof that she wants an open process, to improve the process of making this up, and to set up a research committee for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u44	Madam President. The comments made by the few council members who have expressed themselves on this subject, in the public talk, or even in the media, indicate that they are greatly offended. In fact, those words do not harmonize with the way they feel it would be best to set the next steps, i.e. with Presidential reviews, rather than the NTSB report. So there is no other conclusion than that it was relevant to who had that idea, and it is some sort of self - discipline that has been put into it. In view of the fact that this matter is becoming even more intense, I suggest, this is how, to consider, that we put a zero point here, invite some of the members of the board to come up here to have the idea that there will be a study report on this matter. We'll accept that idea, thank you for the great performance, thank you for the solidarity we show here, a nation waiting to see if we can handle it now because we couldn't handle it last, and we're on a bad path right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u45	President. When I woke up this morning, I couldn't think that the board somehow got along with the idea that the Bjarni son of Benediktsson was going to determine the investigation of the office of Bjarni Benediktsson of Benedict. I'm sorry, Mr President, I just didn't have an idea for this. Reports arise that suggest that the problem with the invitation to Iceland Bank is far beyond what the National Accounting Association can ever reach in comparison with the authority it has. They got 700 million for calling their friends and inviting them to get a coupon. Then they bought themselves some letters at a discount, and then there's a lot of guys I would've thought I wouldn't even open an account in Iceland bank because of researching bribes in Namiba, let alone the bank. [[The president calls.]] Seriously, President, what's with the bullshit getting in front of a board of investigators to take a real look at this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u46	A respectable president. You have to breathe into your belly these days to stay calm. That's the situation. Ever since this happened, March 22, the minority here at the council has made comments and requested answers. Who were allowed to buy, and who could not buy? Who was the lot of each, and who was cut down, who could not get to the table, who was called? These questions have been raised every day since March 22. So finally, when you realize that you're starting to leak out who got to buy, the art is light. And then this terrible truth is revealed. This was in no way consistent with what was suggested at the outset. We're stuck with our trust here at the council. When experts in a town are saying that law has been broken, the president of the council must take it seriously and stop this meeting. They need to be called in so that we can get this research committee that's being asked for.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u47	Madam President. Now I'm hoping for the president of the council, not the one sitting here, but the highest. The president of Birgir Ármannsson's son, is talking to the chairman of the Independence Party to fulfill his role as president of all members of the Parliament and the Allied Council of Iceland, to receive the highest power. Economic and economic ministers to see the light so that it does not error just before the Passover - people must take responsibility for what has happened here - and the council agrees with a proposal to establish a research committee that has all the authority they need to have to have to have to study the bank sale in March. During this visit, we have no choice but to witness and learn of how it was carried out. I'm going to allow me to hope for a few more seconds that the president of the council will be subject to the responsibility of being the president of the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u48	Madam President. As more and more information becomes publicized about a closed invitation to the government in Iceland Bank, doubts arise that the law was being followed to shape the rules and to make sure that the process was transparent. It is not just that those who were paid to buy were former bank owners who drove them to shore, and an Icelandic community at the same time, making this sale controversially. It is not only that the father of the minister responsible for the sale has been allowed to purchase a share of discounts and investors who bought and sold at a high-priority earlier, had the privilege of playing the same game, but also that the trade process does not seem to be in harmony with the laws that set rules and explain how to sell banks. President. There's so much public interest up there that there's a lot of pressure on the General Board of Research Committee. [[The president calls.]] I hope to see it. All of you, all of you, have the courage to stand together to appoint this committee to set matters straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u49	Madam President. I think we're going to a chapter after the book The best way to rob a bank is to own it, which was published in 2005, about how the savings system in the United States was taken over by people who have children. You see, we are hearing more and more about where the law was broken, where there was no recommendation. V.E.G. Secretary of finance said that he did not know that his father had bought. This is once so that our parents of the Generals and Ministers define themselves as people at high risk when it comes to money laundering, and there is an announcement related if we do some business over 15,000 euros. [[The president calls.]] It should not be surprising, then, that there was someone involved in politics. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I'm next to the rosary, but I'm willing to wait for my speech if the decision is made to postpone a meeting during the negotiation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u50	I don't know. After the president's meeting program, members of the Parliament are in line for one minute, even though you are next on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u51	Madam President. I was in a good mood when I went home to sleep yesterday because it seemed that I had developed a parapolitan agreement about the fact that I would now be doing much more work and would be established by the General Assembly's research committee under the Federal Commission to review all aspects of this bank sale. Since that union seemed to have been reached here at the council, information has actually become even more ugly to light on what happened. It has been observed that the owners and employees of the publishers were on their own buying. This has the chairman of the Bank Office, which is exactly the most trusted. Secretary of the budget, acknowledged that it is most unfortunate. [[The president calls.]] Now, Sigríður Benediktsdóttir has come forward, and clearly asserted that the law was broken, and then suddenly it appears to be a repercussive to the council that it is just a state reexamination, which is, in effect, a sort of demented by the legislation of the legislation of the legislature and the executive of the agency, to take care of this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u52	Madam President. I reiterate my first request that this meeting be interrupted. How vital it is that there is no further discussion of loyalty and pollution control, that there is no further discussion of any financial biscuit or anything at the highest level. Let's think of putting this on the program. Now we interrupt this meeting because we are talking about a much larger nation - care issue. We have to get directors to the table to understand the seriousness of the fact that here is one by one, talking about the violation of the law when Bjarni Benediktsson decides to sell some of his special friends and family members in Iceland. These are very serious charges, Madam President, and this must be taken seriously. [[The president calls.]] It must be taken seriously that we get together to appoint the General Research Committee, not some silk gloves treatment. [[The president calls.]] Let's take a break at this conference. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u53	A respectable president. There's been a protest in this room outside at 2:00 p.m. to protest, but it's a question of whether it shakes in the government. I doubt it. This is a determined violation, a broken law, and we need an NTSB immediately. We need a board of investigators rolling in on all the rocks, going into all cracks, in all the blanks, bringing out all the illegalities. It is now clear that the law was committed. I'm asking you, are the government going to let this go on? How the hell on the top. Secretary of finance to sign a consent to his father, to these former bankers? Is the moral code completely gone from the government, and are they really going to let it go? [[The president calls.]] I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u54	A respectable president. Today, one of the headlines in the media is: ▪ The father of a minister, hruppets, and sales advisers. This is what's being sent out to our community, and this makes every man crazy outside the council and even within the council as well. Science pointed out yesterday that the owners and employees of the publishers were also among the buyers. This includes the daughter of Þorbjörg Stefánsdóttir, who lives in the Icelandic stock market, one of five companies who came to advise on the trade process. This alone should be sufficient to initiate an investigational committee. I just ask, a respectable president, could you chain yourself to this album to prevent this meeting from continuing?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u55	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier, as far as more and more evidence is concerned that there has been something very unnatural happening, some of the most precipiceed members of the board on the issue that no committees can be appointed. That's the situation. They're standing in the way of that. How many members of the board are in this room? I don't see one. I know there's good weather outside, I know it's almost Easter break, but we're responsible. A piece of trust is up, and we can't just keep talking about the method of loyalty and pollution. There is nothing for good, a respectable president, who the United States called for a minister other than Bearn the Bjarni of Benediktsson to be assigned to take this bank sale. That is because he has a business story that directly relates to the collapse of the modern bank. [[The president calls.]] I was not surprised, however, when it was decided to continue the sales process, that a few weeks later, a foreign share would be sold at the bank to Father's minister, a defendant in a payoff case, and to people with very poor banking experience. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is amazing, and we have to end this meeting and establish a board of inquiry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u56	A respectable president. I would very much like to agree with the request that has been made here, i.e. to interrupt immediately, just now, at the General meeting. It's not just because it's a good weather, as someone pointed out, it's so much involved that it affects notably the public's trust in the Senate, the public's trust in the banking system, and the way we want to see it for a shorter and longer time. It is quite clear with even more information that we are receiving now, the information and the opinions of experts, such as Sigríðar Benediktsdóttir, who has a lot of experience in such matters, that there is a very good reason for the highest degree. A president to worry about how this case is developing. I have, and I've said it before, deeply concerned about this as a representative of a party that wants further steps to be taken in the sale of the state of Iceland banking. It is literally destroying that step because we cannot take that step while the lack of confidence in this process is in the present way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need a board of inquiry. I pray to the Council of Congress, to the Minister of the Government and the Leaders to take this step just to prepare the trust we so desperately need when it comes to building up our financial system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u57	A respectable president. The bottom line in this matter is this: A minister who is suspected to have committed a crime in a job is not the person who determines under the merits of the study of his practice, where it is carried out, what its scope is, when it ends, etc. The minister who's suspecting that he has abused his authority, or at least A major failure in caring for our responsibilities does not determine how the council will maintain its compliance with this same minister. This is a princely affair that all senators with minimal self-respect must see. We cannot allow the European Commission to decide how the legislature authority intends to monitor the European Commission. For God's sake, you must see this. I know, however, that the government is seeing this completely. They know exactly what they're doing. [[The president calls.]] They've got their eyes open. [[The president calls.]] These ain't no morons. [[For example: This is a decision.]] This is a decision to prevent the council from fulfilling its role, and unfortunately, this government has nothing new to do with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u58	Madam President. I'd like to agree with the requirement that we interrupt these meetings and the leaders of the clans, whether their presidents or members of the council, sit down with the president and review the situation. We have a very serious situation. Here are the charges of corruption, there are charges of lawlessness, criticism comes from all over this business. Here, the public interest interests are below and we who are elected here are required to take care of them and we need to make more public interest in these and other things. However, it is not enough to have a problem. Government senators who require more attention to the public interest in the economy. The senators need to come with us here. Hv. Councilmen of the left green, forwarding party and even the Independence Party must come with us in order to have more of the research committee involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u59	Madam President. I come up here a second time to sign this wish. There are so many questions in this matter, and the questions are so serious. One point: When people are selling letters and at the same time buying them, what position do we have with the term "inherent in the law "? A law-enforcement force can be a primary but can be in that position temporarily because of its work, temporarily because of duties at work. This is one aspect of countless people, since we are talking not just about public experience of the news but about a real challenge to be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u60	President. I'm just going to read out of a nuclear branch, which says that OECD published a guide to the privatization of enterprises in 2019 C.E. The network says that the guide is based on internationally established criteria as well as decades experience with personalisation within Member States of OECD and other countries. And what do we do? We ignore this guide. There's a particular guide that takes into account new buyers, that there are no undisclosed stakeholders, and that there is a strategy for new owners - wise rules, but we ignore them. The government and the government are now stopping us from setting up a serious investigation into why this route had gone, what the outcome was, and why the result is the way it is. I just want to point out, Mr President, there's not a single board of directors in this room. This is a huge case, and they're full of shit - I'm sorry, President. [[The president calls.]] There's no board of directors in the room. We need to pause and discuss this because governments obviously have no respect for the concern of the minority of this matter. [[The president calls.]] I demand that we pause at this meeting and sit down, talk to each other. [[The president calls.]] I just can't believe this is going to be the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u61	Madam President. Today, everything is in chaos, and it is home - to - house problems with the majority of the parts that run the program at the council. We need listening, and we have to have a conference break so we can discuss between the presidents and members of the House of Congress with the proposal for the establishment of the NTSB. It's not that complicated. This has to be done, and it will be discussed here until the end of the trial committee proposal. It will also help us to determine whether governments have broken down to stand with the people of the land and to resist corruption.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u62	A respectable president. I'm just gonna put up a little bit. They're selling state property. The people's possessions are being sold? Here are a few things: It is misinformation given to the council. Salesmen were paid themselves to buy. There were many small parties who were allowed to buy the opposite of promises. Many controversial members undermine trust and are subject to verbal abuse. In spite of the central theme of trust, a person who is under investigation is invited to buy. There is no minimum provision. Guards are too low. Subjects have personally criticized the process. The close family of the responsible man was bought. Salesmen got free hands about whom they called. An enormous error between professional investors and private investors. There are serious doubts that anyone who bought meets the requirements for becoming suitable investors. Parts are buying small things with discounts that were true by the fact that large amounts of money were being sold. These are 13 points, and this is not a complete list of what's being criticized, this invitation that people call successful invitations, and it's just in the clouds. Now, following the comments of Sigríði, the daughter of Benediktsdóttir, who was on the board of inquiry after the collapse of the bank, we must take it up with more weight than we have done, and we must pause at this conference to discuss the rest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We can't go on Easter holiday with this kind of scrap hanging over our heads. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u63	Again, the president reminds us that the speech period under the supervision of President is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u64	Madam President. I'm so mad that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter screwed up this business because I thought it was important that we succeed, and I thought we were taking a good step. I'm totally embarrassed at these clues about the inability of the Generals to react to this mess, and I don't believe that the absence of the councilmen from this chamber after the news we've received should be interpreted as being just okay with this, they're just happy, it's just going their way. So maybe someone with racist comments after a weekend, a lot of sexual harassment possible, too? I don't know. And the public's goldfish is what we really trust in, if indicated, the greater portion. I refuse to believe we're there. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u65	Madam President. In the context of the conference board and the council general, I've come to believe that the government groups were concerned that it would be only a week before the Senate service between the two weeks off in connection with the Passover and the two weeks off as a result of the district election. That this week would be the time for the government classes to move on and on, as it were. But now it is obvious that this week is far too long, for considering their flight from the conversation that should best be discussed in some wise way and in the highest degree. A week ago, the minister of wood was doing his presence here, and I wondered, "What is the surprising way of this discussion about a committee of inquiry now? ' The president is going to work with members of the House of Congress in a position to lower the meetings this week, which should be between the two breaks, whether it was more suitable for the government groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u66	Madam President. It was fun the 13th list of things. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson read up here earlier. I don't know if it's the 14th thing, but I'm staying a little bit on this experience that it was my goal to find a suitable person to invest, but somehow end up there on the list of men who are mainly known to have driven a bank and left it to the public. So I feel that this new meaning in the term "generalally qualified" means "healed people" (-) is a little spes, but that may be the way the independent party measures people's ability: If they're rich, it's fit. Period. Of course, the presence of the executives is noteworthy after they burned themselves to support our committee of research in the hall yesterday and then were pushed over the night and came back here and beat the minister's armor, striking the armored city of Bjarni Benediktsson, all the members of Congress, and suddenly refusing to do what we all wanted to do yesterday. I noticed, Mrs. President, that Birgir Ármannsson has stopped talking to darkering students in the East and back in the house. Is there any news about when this conference will be postponed so that we can resolve this matter? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u67	Madam President. I don't think today's situation is just like that. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson told her that the rulers were in the clouds. They were, of course, the first few hours later, but now the silver is falling so easily that I think it's starting to slip two masks on a great many. Of course, the inconveniences shown in demonstrations, articles, interviews, and here in the chair from the management staff indicate that they do. I think it's also perfectly obvious that this investigation is for all, including the executives. Nobody's accusing them of doing anything wrong. Mrs. President, however, must realize that in this room right now, there are only governmental opposers who are more or less talking to themselves and to Madam President, so I suggest that there be a way to match control and opposition.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u68	Madam President. We have discussed the order of the parts. It is a surprising explanation that there has become some basis for this decision to be taken first by the Government Accounting, of course not to feel at all. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen came into this discussion earlier today and recalled that, of course, a government accountant had had no access to the bank crash investigation before a special research committee was appointed on that matter. If it is to be the straw that the rulers intend to hang on to justify this approach, which they today seem to represent, there is not much to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank the government for promoting this matter. It is important that we do well when it comes to this, as we have seen many times here today. However, I would like to ask a specific question, because we're always talking about some very careful administration here and that we're going by the board of directors of Iceland. When we have a administrative district, we start by emptying out the charges before going into something higher. [[The point is, this is not related.]] - Wait, if we're going to ask that we be with the General Research Committee that goes into all of this, as you're suggesting, I'd like us to look at it first... are you going to tell me what I think? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Up front.]] If we're going to go this way, I'd like to make an amazing contribution, and we're gonna support what we've been talking about here today, going to State Review first, and if anything comes out of that, we can go to see the General Research Committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's all I have to say in this discussion, and I don't like it when you're putting an opinion into my mouth here in a pita. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u70	The president asks why. Senators use the speaker's stand to express themselves, and if they want two people to talk, they do so elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u71	A respectable president. I appreciate it very much. paritaprevir Merdis Hafsteinsdóttir Hysteinsdótttir, a member of the Parliament for the District Post, will come up here and express her opinion. I like it, I think it's respectable. It involves the ambition of wanting to do well and to have everything on the table. But that's the way it is, and I know it. A senator has listened to us today, that this is by no means a mistrust in the State Accounting. It's just that the tools that the Government Accounting has to draw everything out, have everything, are not the same as a Senate research committee. If we have real ambitions, the government groups, to get the true picture of this, for that too, so I'll underscore it again, that we can continue on on a solid basis, including. sell more of the state in Iceland, then we have to go this way, so that the people of the country can gain faith in the process. It's what's so important to happen, and that's why we're making this move.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u72	Madam President. I had planned to use the next 15 minutes to discuss things that are bad to the bill we're talking about. However, because the government's resistance to interrupt this meeting was not granted - I am deeply sorry that the Council's president did not listen to the will of the council - I intend to step out of the pit to allow the conference government to proceed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u73	A respectable president. I notice that the executives felt extremely hurt and rushed out of the hall, the few hypocrites who showed up after we drew attention to the fact that they weren't here to have a conversation with us. I find it remarkable, Mr President, when we request a recession at a council meeting to continue. We're asking for a committee of inquiry and here we bring in the management forces to explain to us: Yes, you may have a research committee, but only if we feel that it is not enough when the Government Review has been examined. Then let us support it - if, if so, we feel that there is a basis for support. Of course, it's just the world's greatest record in bringing out twists, screws, ways to roll the ball ahead and ensure that no real study of what was being done there will be done. I propose, and make it my suggestion that there will be no conquistador until this meeting has been interrupted and it has been determined how we're going to launch the General Council Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u74	A respectable president. I'm kind of shocked by the entrance of the forward party here in the last few minutes. Clearly, after a large meeting of the Prosecutors'party, it was decided to bring in a very powerful senator. A member of Hafdís Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, to explain that this was a administrative decision that should take place in the administrative assessment of the Government Accounting and not the investigation necessary on whether a violation has been committed in the sale of an Icelandic stock in Iceland Bank. - Are you kidding me, Madam President? She hatches by saying that she just wants so much to offer and support what we've been talking about here today - read: the more part - to take the matter first to the State Accounting. I'll repeat what she said, if there's anything that comes out of it, we can go to the General Research Committee. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. [[The president calls.]] I don't trust this political part of the house. They want to do everything they can to get in the way of a real investigation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u75	The debate hour behind the President's conference board is one minute, not high for two minutes, one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u76	Madam President. It was nice to finally see a member of the board showing up here in the hall until I heard what they had done - very frustrating for yesterday. I felt like a dog. paritaprevir Although Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson when I left work yesterday, I had a little cold on my hands to ride along the Seatrack home, but I was warm in my heart because I had had experienced more solidarity here than we are supposed to get used to. At that time, the representatives of all classes had expressed themselves here in a pontu, not on any butterx, but on the proposal to initiate the Council's Research Committee for the Export to Iceland Bank. Everyone says something positive about it. Some said: " Yes, perhaps it would be better for a Government Accounting to go over this, but if you really want to, would you? Then we woke up with a bad dream this morning, and my old man, he'd trot them all around, and they're like a turned-out dog. They'll just show up here in a pit and have some derring.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u77	Madam President. When I try as a new senator to understand the role of Government Accounting on the other hand and research committees, it now seems to me that the main role of Article 5. It is legal for a government accountant to determine whether this will help to illustrate business management and then to examine the internal surveillance of institutions and companies and to ensure that accounts are in accordance with financial authority. But then when you look at some of the research committees, it's 39 C.E. The Constitution that the Council is authorized to appoint members of the Generals to investigate important issues that are relevant to the public. The Synod can give these committees permission to demand reports, oral, letterable, both of the officials or of the individual. I don't see that this warrant is in the hands of a Government Reviewer. You can arrange for a hearing to appear before a research committee rather than a Federal Accounting committee, so there is no point in taking it through a Government Accounting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u78	President. I cannot possibly understand these short-minded members of the administration and the government not to understand the value of this journey in cooperation with us, with the opposition, so that the whole Congress can work on this together, go into a process, increase in credibility, increase in confidence, because that is what the common people need right now. If the government cared about public interests, you'd see the benefits of us, the opposition of the government, wouldn't be out here screaming ill in a pit, which I'm using now. I'm angry here and I'm screaming evil because I'm so worried about this. A government accountant is not the right tool for the job. If I need to get a nail to my wall at home, I'll grab the hammer. I won't grab the screwdriver first, if it's the finest tool, and then I'll try it, and if it doesn't work, I'll get the hammer. [[The president calls.]] I'm not stupid. [[The president calls.]] We need to use the right tools. Otherwise, the government is just saying, "We don't want, we're scared shitless of what the outcome will be, so we're not going to use the right tool, because we don't want the nail to go to the wall. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u79	Madam President. I thought the incident here was a bit Colombian. We've spoken many here, and for those who don't know, it's so that in the President's conference board, each speaker can speak twice and no more. The government's situation was here as good as having emptied its right to address the discussion, and that is, first, when the government officials enter the chamber. They've hardly been seen here all afternoon. They present this adventurous argument, which has been so culminating as they somehow view State Reunion as a lower government and the World Council's Research Committee as some sort of appeal court. This is the legal understanding of the executives here, which is just so incredible that it doesn't even have to be talked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u80	Madam President. In 2003 the film The Cooler with William H. Macys came out in the role of an unfortunate man who had the part in the casinos in Las Vegas reminds me to sit next to the one who was overcrowding tables and there was the bad luck of William Williams Macys over them and they stopped working. Some government ministers are who are in this position right now, apparently. But The Cooler's name is that movie, and I think it's the exact effect of trying to achieve this order of things, it's supposed to cool off by making it go to the State Research first, with all due respect for the good agency. That's not what it's about. However, such cooling effects that the management board sees in the quietness of the inside of it a few months, even a year, before a discussion is made about setting up a research committee. These are the effects you are looking for. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the minister of the government not to consider Williams H. Macys's role in this matter. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u81	Madam President. Cold or buttery, it's the same function in this context that we're talking about here. The authority of the State Accounting is totally at stake. They won't do. There's got to be a board of investigators. We must learn from experience. It is sometimes said that history repeats itself. I'm actually more of a belief that the folly of humans repeats when they seem so full of denial, so trapped in themselves and their own privileged thoughts, that they do not think of public interest and what our real role is here at the High General Assembly. It has to be done, Madam President, that this meeting will be postponed, that the President of the Parliament is invited to meet with members of the council and we agree on the continuation of this case so that it is worth prior to the high Council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u82	Madam President. It was in 2010 that I read all the pages of the General's study report on the collapse of the banks, and when I sat down in the company of finance minister in 2012, I stressed that if it did happen, I would be allowed to measure for a bill that gave assurance and ensured the sale of a part of the state in the bank. Actually, we had only 5% of Iceland banks at that time, 15% at Arion Bank, and 81% at Lands Bank, and it didn't stand to sell 70% of that bank. Then, in 2015, we get the banking system in our arms after the stability project. Now, Madam President, we have a smaller share. We're the minority owners of Iceland Bank after this sale. [[The president calls.]] And as we have seen here today, it appears that the songs adopted here in 2012, which were to ensure that games could not be repeated at the earlier privatization of banks up at the turn of the century, have been broken. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is a very serious matter, Madam President, and we must investigate it and stick to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u83	Hv. Senators. If it has been forgotten, then the session will be over for President's conference board one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u84	A respectable president. A fine senator sitting here in the hall has been prepared for me a lot more than the law on research committees, and it is clear that these committees have quite a wide range of authority to carry out their assignments. But what's at the top of my mind right now is, Where's the highest? Prime Minister of Iceland? Where are the left green people who claim to be righteous? I'm going to the top. ▪ Prefecting that the law is being violated, does it seem? Will she be in a town somewhere while we're trying to analyze matters and get them through the inspection of this matter, as if by law? Or is she just going to take part in the interaction that obviously takes place here? There's someone to protect who's not supposed to be defending at this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u85	Madam President. It's a very familiar playsheet, as we have seen. I'd like to review a company somewhat similar to the Bank County, which was in the arm length from the highest level. Secretary of the budget, named Lindahvoll. Lindaholi was assigned to take the sale of the so - called stability property that the State obtained in 2015/2016. All of that was completed 2018 and then began to learn that potential buyers, a number of expedient friends, might have been given a huge discount when buying the property. The matter was reviewed by a political reexamination. That survey began with 2018, and a report reached the Council of 2020, all of which were lacking as a result of bank secrets. It took two years to win this report, but it has been since two years for this document to be over and between the different international committees, different local lawyers, different viewpoints on how to make this information available to the public. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] While only because of Lindahols, each reasonable person should see that the Kingdom Accounting Way is nothing more than the government's way to handle the situation for at least Four years to continue in this blessed administrative work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u86	Madam President. I hope it's respected me that I've had nothing new to do with this discussion, and I don't need it. It's just that the case is so serious that I'm here to reiterate the appointment of a federal committee. What is interesting is this 24 - hour period from the highest point of view. The prime minister announced his suggestion to refer this to the Reconnaissance has become more serious and serious, and more and more storm clouds have burst up in the sky. The members of Congress and members of the council who were willing to refer this to the Generalist Research Committee yesterday when the matter seems less serious, are not prepared to do so now as it is heading toward catastofu. Madam President will have to take the lead in the gathering of a council meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u87	A respectable president. I came in to see what it was like to see how the candidates rode in here when the rosary was actually empty, as if to make sure they had the last word. I think they may have had a bottle of it that, according to Congress, you can actually request a discussion about the President's conference board between every speaker in a case. I don't know what time it is now, is she two or three? I don't think we're going to talk much about loyalty practices and pollution control today. There may be a few brief talks on this. However, in other respects, we will, of course, continue to speak under these teams and demand that management personnel be given the promise to set up a research committee on the sales process in Iceland Bank. That's a minimum catch. With this, we will stand with the public in the country, stand by good business practices and administrative practices.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u88	Madam President. In the 3rd. the legal management of the government's holdings of financial resources is, on principles of sales management: When making a decision on the preparation and implementation of the sale site, the open sale procedure, transparency, objective and practicality should be emphasised. Practically, the highest price or market price for property is applied. Care should be taken to ensure that conditions offered are reasonable and equal. In that case, sales should strive to promote active and natural competition for financial markets. Madam President. 249th. the law of the law of the law of the law states: ▪ If a person in a position to do something that another person is bound to do, or if he has money on someone else, abuses this situation, it will be in prison for up to 2 years, and if the punishment is very serious, it can be weighed down for up to 6 years in prison. It's an embezzlement arrangement, Madam President. Madam President. The Minister's Accounting Act states: In the above articles, the secretary who is responsible for an office ceremony will also be held responsible for the actions of his subordinates, based on a made-up ceremony or being carried out, as if it were ordered by a minister or, as it is currently indicated, considered normal or necessary to do so. [[The president calls.]] I propose once again that we interrupt this conference and sit down to agree that this will be set up at the World Council Board for research on sales in Iceland Bank. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u89	I want less of it. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u90	Madam President. I just wanted to make clear that when specific situations arise that require some opinion or investigation, a decision by the Kingdom Ministry can be very appropriate for certain actions. But when things like this, as we're going to do right now, and we're talking about it, we're going to need stronger options. Then we'll need the General Commission. I'm just going to review what's said about the General's Research Committee on the Web: ▪ Research Committees provide detailed sources of information, including receiving information related to confidentiality and how to manage and preserve it. Special attention is given to the right protection of informers and the conditions for a person's being able to enjoy them. Then there are detailed regulations on the legal status of those acting before a committee of inquiry, including the right to bring with them an assistant and the payment of the expenses of his work. The frame around the committee's function is so well defined, and it is so well thought-of-the-art that it suits exactly what it is, since it was so when we examined the collapse of the bank and when we went over the trade of the Farm Bank, it was exactly done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u91	Madam President. I'm on the same trails as before. I want to pray to the highest. A president who uses the delay of a meeting to attend a meeting of the council groups and discuss how it will be decided here at the high Council to set up a research committee on sales in Iceland Bank. We can't afford to read news of what went wrong in this process. The opinion of people like Sigríður the daughter of Benediktsdóttir, who served as a member of the General Assembly for the bank crash, says more than a thousand words about the situation in this matter. Wait a minute. Senators who support this government, they should hear me in the house, now look out for all of us, our interests in the public, and our minds on how we can build trust in the banking system. If we don't initiate a test, trust will collapse and we can't afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u92	Madam President. I mentioned earlier the effect that I think is trying to achieve in this case and an imminent opinion of it, regardless of the way it will be carried out, but I had simply forgotten the Linda scandal at any point. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came back just a few minutes ago. If there's an example in this regard, that's the case. It has been kind of sad to watch how the committees and mail run wild, it seems always to be driven between them to aim for the least information to be published. In view of the way that case has been won, I think it would be wise to try to frame this on the grounds that seemed to be the result here yesterday. I suggest the highest. That's what the president did.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u93	Madam President. With every minute of it, where it goes. The members of the board are not here in this hall, and they do not participate, with every speech in which we stand up and demand that an independent investigation by the General Commission of these matters be carried out. Councilmen, whether private members, councilmen, ministers, ministers, or presidents, are more and more involved in the corruption and the illegalities that come to light. Let's take a break, Madam President, so we can't get any worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u94	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason spoke of cooling and cooling. I've been calling this nonsense a lot of times. A book of silence, that's an article I've written, in which I refer to the exact methodology used to silence unpleasant speech. I'm just going to review the table of contents in the silence manual: Denial or trivializing the matter. - This is what we know. It's just that the invitation was successful. Find a scapegoat. - No, the council did it. Shoot the messenger. - No, you're just against selling the bank over their heads. You can't be taken seriously. That's the smoothest way to go. - Let's send this to a state accountant. It's a deduction of the discussion. - No, you just don't trust a public accountant. Why are you losing confidence in a Kingdom accountant? Rewrite the story. - Yeah, I mean, it never stood to sell big, qualified long-term investors some things, we were going to get all sorts of these money too. Gas panels. - Yeah, you didn't say anything about it for the sale that you didn't want any of that sort of investment, I mean, it's just you guys, right? [[The president calls.]] I suggest that you familiarize yourselves with this, this is by the book, every single item. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u95	A respectable president. It was very interesting to hear the voice. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardóttir earlier. It's just the exact kind of thing that events have been like, exactly by a manual: How do you keep quiet, cool down the effect of them, or mislead everything? No one has missed the fact that the government and the government have disagreed on a number of matters when it comes to Congress and various matters, ideals, and where to take this community. But what's going on here is so serious because we're talking about selling so much government property and we're talking about plans to sell more. I'm going to say for my part that I don't feel that it's an option to continue sales in Iceland or U.S. Bank while not all of us are buried in this case. I'm right about what I said here earlier: A public reexamination is a great party to investigate specific factors. However, it is not what suits this matter here. I'm sure we'll all see it, and I'll call for the president of the council, please. Birgir If you come here to see us for a conversation, ask us if he will grant us a moment's intermission so that we can work things out better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u96	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Thorhild Sunna Ævarsdóttir pointed to an important part of this matter in his talk about a meeting government earlier today. She referred them to 2 mg. Section 4. the law on the sale of the financial property of the State and showed that the government is at the highest level. A financial minister has to decide for himself whether or not an offer should be agreed upon when it is available. V.E.G. A minister of finance cannot wash his hands because his father bought shares when the law expects him to evaluate the offers that have been received and to decide whether to agree. The rendering reads: When an offer is made in part of the estate, the government's Department of Banks shall provide the prime minister with a reasoned assessment of it. The minister decides whether to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract on behalf of the State for the sale of the holding object. The secretary is responsible. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u97	A respectable president. How long is the worm staying? Why can't we get anything from the top? The President of the Parliament? That's what I mean. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson, why doesn't he have the authority to resolve this important issue? There are fundamental interests that exist; the confidence of the people, the confidence in how a banking system we want to build up, the confidence of the people at that meeting. That we can share these issues, the channel that builds trust, credible in how we want basic wood, including financial activity, built up on the land. We are to learn from history, no matter how painful it may be. We have the guts to watch the story and learn from it, and not just say it, but do it. It is important to make use of the opportunities and tools established by the Parliament's research committee to settle matters, to build trust. That's why we're asking for it at the highest level. To make it clear, the president joins us and says: "Let's set up the council hearing so that we can go down into this banking campaign to build up the country's trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u98	Madam President. Before I have my case, I'd like to ask the President if a minister isn't definitely in a house, but I haven't seen her here in the last few hours. Is it possible to find out and even get her in the room?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u99	President's gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u100	Here we discuss preliminary measures involving three law columns, loyalty laws, fish breeding laws, and environmental assessment laws. This matter does not come about well, as it often does. Fish farming laws were changed in 2018, so a minister could provide temporary permission for ten months, which would then be allowed back another ten months, even though there was no valid environmental assessment. This was because of a project that took place in connection with the expansion of older employment practices in the marine environment. The enlargement was reported, and the Environmental and Resource Commission decided that the environmental problem was severely impaired that it was canceled. Although executives could have said that these defects were possible, especially in the area where the charges were begun, the person started the operation, and a great pressure on politicians to react. It has to be said that the Environmental and Resource Declaration Committee is, unfortunately, far too seldom on the team with nature, just like a large part of Iceland's governance system. The forces of action are often more sound than other forces. There was the decision - making committee with nature, with the precautions that called for this matter to be considered more carefully. I think we all agree, no matter what we think about a marine farm, that business is a major biological intervention in which it is placed. I don't think there's anything that can be said as a sea eco-continent or as a single possibility of saying something else. The response to all of this was that political pressure was put on because of high financial interests, said managers, since they had started the project and part of it was about to give birth to the countries that were supposed to grow there, and if this had to be slaughtered without the possibility of growing it to the slaughter size, the operators would be out of great investments. Suppose there were two possibilities. Another possibility would have been to be the strict parent. The government would have said to the operators: I'm sorry, this is our law. You could have told yourselves that this could have happened and that you might have had to wear belts and bracelets about this environmental food. You know that this is a controversial industry, and you may learn from this not to make a major investment, since it is not a hundred percent that you can start the project because the environmental assessment may be over. This was the way of the strict parent, but the way that was chosen was the way of the yielding. The chosen route was to say, "Yes, we shouldn't just let it hang out. " But it is now more than merely allowing this to be the case because it was done by enforcing the laws that allowed this to be passed, making laws that were so specific that it could almost only be pointed to the mats and floats they covered, in which the Agency and the Food Organization were given a source that was not previously in the law, in spite of problems with environmental assessments. Of course, that did not bring joy to those with wild people. Some organizations, including. National Protection, the complaint about this legalization, and the follow-up licence groups. They sent one complaint to the EFTA Agency, or ESA as we call it, and the other complaint sent them to the office of the Insecurities Convention, which deals with the involvement of public and nature protection organizations in decision-making decisions relating to nature. So it was 2018 that this ball began rolling, and in April 2020, a preliminary decision came from one of these. In April 2020, ESA returned a preliminary decision and took the groundwork for everything that Land Protection said. The Environment and Resource Ministry went on to set up a bill in the consultation march where, however, it was not responded to what was actually ESA's core concern that a valid environmental assessment should be carried out before allowing. This is something that I think we need to take a close look at in the preceding Committee whether it can actually be called a valid environmental assessment to follow the charges that can lead to an invalidation of the assessment, especially when we're talking about larger projects that are classified as major intervention in nature. It does not matter, does ESAs, whether it is temporary or temporary, or is permanent. They must be built on such a solid foundation. This way, 2018, to say: Of course, we'd like to have a hundred percent valid environmental assessment for a permanent operation, but we can allow this environmental assessment, which has been unacceptable for a temporary performance, is something that ESAs simply disagree. What was also done in the autumn of 2020 was that the problem was actually increasing. It is suggested to validate the praxis that ESAs are scoring Iceland for having practised in this case. It is suggested and suggested that the temporary route be not ten months for extending another ten months but for 12 months that may be extended to other 12 months. In other words, there is something called a two - year provisional license. In many forms of a license, it's just what you call a work permit. All they have to do is renew every two years. Another factor that increased the problem was that the public, according to these bill regulations, was given only one week to object to the government's decision to grant temporary permission. And what's perhaps the biggest problem is that the methodology in these billies was transferred to another business, so that which began as tailor-cutting solutions for the market management of the West, which was in trouble at the beginning of 2018, suddenly became a suggestion for permanent legalization that covers the entire business that can be covered by the legal requirements presented here. So these were the response of the government to ESA's preliminary decision that arrived in the spring months of 2020. ESA's final decision came a while later, at the end of 2021. It's considered harder. This is harder because the Icelandic government did not only violate the EU rules, as stated in the provisional agreement on this, e.g. that the public would be excluded from the provisional permits and that the public could not be allowed to charge them, and that the violations of a valid environmental assessment were required when there is a management and employment permit. It was all in preliminary and final ESAs. But what even appeared there in the consultation puzzle, causing ESAs to fuel even more because they showed the Icelandic government what they were going to do. That's exactly the bill we have in our hands here, in response to ESA's rebuke against the law set up here in 2018 by trying to establish these laws permanently by so little change. This is not how we react to criticism, to attach it. We need to take a good look at the Committee's whether this is the head of the committee. Although it is quite possible to understand--what should we say, not force majeure, it was found to convince the greater part of the United States that it was urgent to set these laws for temporary 2018. It cannot be so urgent, and we must be a little more strict about government proof requirements on the need, in the case of permanent relief from the regular work available to protect nature, society, and economics in many areas, because the assessment of environmental impacts is about it. I remember that in our discussion of 2018, some who thought that they were speaking in the Western issue of the West said that people who wanted to keep an assessment of environmental impacts would have something against the view that the Westerners would grow and thrive. [[The president calls.]] There's something else. [[The president calls.]] People who want strong assessments of environmental impacts want communities to flourish all over the country and the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u101	Madam President. I'd like to use this opportunity to ask you why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson only points out whether he believes that what is presented here could possibly meet the requirements of the Fractal Convention. I decided that there was no answer to the nature protection organization that also shot the case there. If I understand this bill correctly, the agreement with the public will include the publication of the license for one week on government consultations before it is taken for the final payment. Of course, it can be said to have a tick in it. But I wonder if we are really looking at something that might be some kind of thing -- now I'm trying to look for the Icelandic words, that is sometimes referred to as an '-window dressing' in English, something that might look good but really doesn't serve its purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u102	Madam President. The box around these temporary documents in the bill is that there must be an urgent need, and there are good reasons to recommend that the project be granted temporary access. We may generally assume that this is somehow linked to money, that there are some large amounts below it. But I think we can at least say that this has to do with some kind of scale, whether it's financial or a positive influence on society, or whatever it is, that there are reasons to justify it. Such projects do not begin to be completed in a short period of time. It is a challenge for a project to be effective to require that environmental assessment rules be turned aside to get her back on track. I'm sure such a project has been developing for years before it reached its stage of construction. In this context, it is natural to think that people who care for nature's interests and the public will then get only one week to respond formally, especially when we consider that the stake involved in the implementation of the Agency is expected to be in full force as long as the union groups that are concerned with the interests of the public and the natural world are more often than not driven by volunteers. If they have staff, they're expensive, subversive, and they cry out. One week for people who may be doing their reviews for the evening and the weekend - I think they can never resist the criteria of the Communicator Convention to be real to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u103	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer because it supports the conclusion I have derived from reading the bill, that it is really unforgiving to see that the public has a realistic possibility of providing temporary permission, i.e. to return comments about it within the short time given. One week is a very short time. And like a cot. A senator named us are usually talking about a group of individuals who, of course, give out their comments on the people, and they do so without pay and in their spare time while the companies are in a completely different place and have been prepared for years, usually. This is what worries me, and I know it's going to be picked up. Environmental and transport committees and need to be carefully examined. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. A senator noted that the time of a so - called temporary release to one year, which may then be reassigned once, we may have a practitional view of two years, i.e. a leave that'll do for two years. That's too long, Madam President. Again, in the discussion of this bill, I come to see whether there is a key requirement for granting temporary permission. Is it not better to do this so that all conditions are met, assessments of the environmental impact of the project are completed, assessments are flawless, and working procedures are actually designed to make sure that there is no need for a provisional license?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u104	Madam President. I think this is the bottom line: we shouldn't have to have any way of assessing environmental impact or the rule of work permit or implementation, the rule work should work well enough and be efficient enough to make a good decision at an acceptable time. I believe that there are frequent and frequent interests for both executives and those who protect nature's interests. If we can somehow customize the system to make it work faster than the fact that it's more complicated, I think we'll both heal. This is a bit of a thought because, as I can see from this ESA opinion, it is not considered desirable at all to be involved in this principle. And in view of the fact that environmental impact assessment laws, we are actually taking the most direct route up from Europe, through the EEA Convention, I think we should be careful about tailoring some of our special solutions, which are about to eliminate this common European rule. I just want to say, if it wasn't for Iceland's EEA we'd never have had some rotten laws on how to evaluate environmental effects. These are one of the most powerful laws for nature that we have to deal with, although some of the attacks have been made on them and their teeth are cut out in many places. I don't want to be a part of this council in one of these experiments again if that fear of me is correct in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u105	A respectable president. I must agree with what the talk presented. Councilman, environmental assessment rules include the wonderful things we have brought in from Europe through the EEA Convention. Thank you. A rather successful speaker may want to agree that the bill on this topic can directly lead to a further deterioration of environmental assessments, confident that the permission groups will allow them to be temporary without a valid environmental assessment. I thought why. A senator puts it too well when he spoke of a permanent bypass to protect nature. I'd like to hear a little more from it. A senator would consider the long - term effects of this bill to be possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u106	Madam President. I think this is an interesting approach and something we really need to think about. I want to believe in the good in all people. I'd like to believe that people who are applying for a license do it well and count the environmental assessment they have in their hands to be well-worked and valid. But by creating this back door into the possibility of a two - year provisional permit, this is exactly the case, as the senator says. We can call this a moral hazard. If I were an evil candidate, I could think of the fire and make the environmental food that looks good and looks good on the surface, but after construction is done, some defect will come to the fore, so it will fall out of force. Then I have entered this world of temporary secrets. I don't know, it might take some sort of an idea to see what problem this might create, but I think it's pretty obvious that some problem can create this, and especially the problem we saw in 2018, that it doesn't matter who it is. We see it all the time with this government, it doesn't matter who it is when something comes up. Some people will be warned by governments and others will not. Some people get legalized in order to avoid the rules that apply and others don't. [[The president calls.]] Some people receive a golden invitation on the bank sale and others do not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u107	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for clear answers and agree with him. I'd like to ask him if he would share my opinion that making such rules, that valid environmental assessment can somehow wait for permission to be granted and then all started, must simply undermine these factors not only the environmental assessment rules but also the views of public participation and the right to a reexamination of decisions that have considerable environmental impact.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u108	Madam President. I just think that the side of the case involved that the public participation rate is possibly the biggest problem in this matter. We know how difficult it has been to validate and legally validate the Land of Ascords. It's not here yet. But it also appeared in detail, such as the fact that this bill is brought here because of complaint about Land Protection and others to ESA. The preliminary ESA was observed in April 2020. In September 2020, the bill of government consultation and protection is presented to respond with a review. Then, around 2021/2022, the final ESA's opinion of the year begins to complete this bill and then throws it into practice, I don't even remember what dates it was on, December 15 it was put in the consultation note every week, that I think. It was one or two weeks that people were given to respond. National Protection just did not notice this issue, did not include full - time officials in caring for government consultations. Would it have been so much overpowered by the Ministry to use one phone call to Land Protection to ask if they wanted to have a minor agreement on a bill prepared to respond to the complaint of Land Protection? The Ministry has done something like this. [[The president calls.]] But this does say a little bit about how little communication is worth with an organization that takes care of the interests of the public and nature at times in the Council of Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u109	Madam President. The clock's ten minutes to four o'clock on Friday. Since this morning, we have requested that there be a recession at this assembly to try to find some conclusion between the government and the government's position that the General Research Committee shall be organized to review the sales of the public in Iceland. This is an undeniably clear demand, since the Allied Research Committee, backed up with legislation on the Allegers Committee, has extensive research sources, can call people for announcements, and do not attend reports. This is very similar to what is known in the criminal law. This is far more comprehensive sources than any national accountant has, except that a government accountant is a public employee with the office that owns his job and what he earns, to do nothing in the distaste of his superiors, who, yes, is the government of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We don't have a state accountant elected by the General. [[The president calls.]] Let's interrupt this meeting and come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u110	A respectable president. I'll take my heart for what I'm talking about. Senator. I find it quite obvious, after the information has been received, especially after members of the council as good as any group expressed support that an independent review board committee by the General Assembly would be set up, which further emphasizes the importance of such an investigation, now the last comments by Sigríði Benediktsdóttir daughter, who personally served as a member of the Allegis Research Committee for the success of the bank, that the law has been violated in this trade process. I'm just going to read from law, 3rd. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: When deciding for the preparation and implementation of the sale of property parts, the open sale procedure, transparency, objective and practicality should be emphasised. The bill's report that became the law says: It is assumed that a possession share should be offered for sale in an open sale. However, it is necessary to reason specifically if there is not enough to offer an item for sale in this way. [[The president calls.]] How was that logical? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. with the need to find qualified professional investors, they would need to find long-term investors, founded investors, etc., that the past phase of the sale has already been developed. [[The president calls.]] What happens next? [[The president calls.]] We know that. Trust is gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u111	A respectable president. I'll just say one thing. The director of the Conspiracy that we could begin giving the same speech over and over again, because the issue is simply that we will be listened and arranged as requested. You find it remarkable to read about it in the media, to observe that the president of the Bank County, cannot be expedient of those who have been judged or investigated. There is no room for it, it is true that it can't be gagged in the post but that it can't be fenced in a closed outlet where buyers are held in a very special way that anyone could just jump in there. But it wasn't just anyone. There were groups, even investment companies, who didn't get to buy, who just didn't receive an invitation, a lot of people here who didn't get an invitation. [[The president calls.]] The situation is this. We need this committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u112	A respectable president. The principles of sales management are set out in Article 3. law on the sale of the financial property of the state: When making a decision on the preparation and implementation of the sale site, the open sale procedure, transparency, objective and practicality should be emphasised. Practically, the highest price or market price for property is applied. Care should be taken to ensure that conditions offered are reasonable and equal. In that case, sales should strive to promote active and natural competition for financial markets. There are laws to seek the highest market price, but the stocks are sold at discount. Here are laws to observe transparency and objective, but stocks are sold to selected individuals in a closed trade process. It's against the law. We need the General's study report on this sale.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u113	A respectable president. I feel that there is good reason to give this discussion a little bit of stress. It is no longer a matter of community affairs today to make peace with anyone more than what we are discussing here. These were 50 billion sold. It is to sell more later, even another bank. The whole process simply isn't possible as long as we haven't cleaned up after this sale, which almost everyone agrees that it hasn't worked well. I studied an excellent list earlier, just the comments that have been made, and many of those who participated in the invitation make comments on quite extraordinary differences. Then we receive this comment by Sigríður Benediktsdóttir, who served at the Federal Bank as an economist at Yale. I'm just going to say this here: Her words on this matter are of far greater importance than all the words that have fallen into this chair, both by the rulers and by the authorities. We've got to call off a meeting and get this thing going before we leave for Easter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u114	Madam President. Of course, it would be unsettled to go over and over again and over all that has been over and over again. Of course, it's more peculiar than it is to say that the executives have not already realized that the matter is getting worse and that it gets worse every hour, and it's really amazing that our wish has not been reconciled, a natural wish for an FBI study committee. Then there is another friendship, that there should not be a small part in the Council to cut off the investigation of such serial and massive charisma that affects the trust of the banks in the country. So, Madam President, we need an investigation on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u115	Madam President. It has been interesting to observe how government remotes have been increasing with each passing hour, probably because they were embarrassed to accept our idea of yesterday's General Research Committee. It says something about the stuffing of the board, that people who show up here with good ideas, no matter where it comes from, get a disgrace so they can lay down in some Cronian silence and don't even know how to support themselves, and suddenly just take on some piece of butter for a whole other study. This absence is also a little bad about the Ministers here on the program, and I would like to reiterate my request to the President at the beginning of a talk on the subject we are discussing right now, as I asked for a minister to come in the hall, all the way to the house. [[The president calls.]] Was there anything wrong with that? Is there a minister in the house? And if not, is that not a direct delay for this meeting, regardless of all our requests for this on the basis of the NTSB? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If a minister is absent, we cannot be discussing the minister's case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u116	President. I find it necessary to keep an important point in this matter being brought to the attention of the Council is the object of this sale, or the so - called object of the Council. I feel that it is important to take precautions only there because the council has only received this case after the decision was made that it should be sold and that it should be made to look for Alward's review. It's part of the process, a checkbox like this that needs filling. However, because the decision to sell was made, the council simply took too short time to review the matter with some serious nature. It was a good time, and then I had to get going to finish it. It was demanded that the council return at a certain time. The Council requires that the council complete at some point, which is not necessarily the time it takes for the council to complete the matter in a professional way. So all the debates that somehow come into this matter are a deception, and I would like to warn that it is some responsibility of the council in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u117	A respectable president. I agree with what's been said here, that we have to do something about this because it's to our own high-profile shame or, more frankly, the government is being defamed. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, the gangs of these letters are in 128, meaning nearly 5 billion dollars. increase from what it was at present. But if we take what we first had to offer, that would not be less than 30 billion. The government has been very busy selling the banks in empty nonsense, illegalities, and all but at the same time a very poor individual, one of the poorest of the country's people, is struggling to earn food and be judged in the Supreme Court -- how much for six years? Less than 1 billion. K. Put it in touch with what is being assigned to private friends here. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u118	Madam President. I come up here to ask if we have heard of ourselves here in the Senate Hall, which has now been standing in a whole afternoon, asking for us to be listened to and called to the council members and to find a solution to the committee of the General Assembly for sales of the State in Iceland Bank, as this has been discussed all day. I'm going to hold on to my hope for a while, but I have to admit that these subterfuges and tactics do not function to ease the Senate and not to give the public in the country hope that they will strengthen confidence in this process and take away all doubt, or rather, inform everything that was done in the process when the stock of the Bank of Iceland was sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u119	President only wants to say that the president hears it as a matter of course. Senators report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u120	Madam President. There are a number of reasons to be content to investigate this matter. There's something here. has been referred to as a review of two decades ago as a blessing on bank sales, which proved to have been so as not to have been investigated in accordance with good management and business practices. When I say this, I'm not doing it to bring some reproach on the State Accounting. Rather, I'm suggesting that the State Reexamination doesn't have the same authority as the Alwardis research committees. That's for damn sure. That's why I just want to say that even if a Government Accounting is taking this matter into consideration, it's clear to me that an FBI investigation committee must be appointed to review this process in order to build trust. That's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u121	President. I understand, or I don't understand, neither do I know that the President has already announced a meeting of the council groups, and it will be interrupted at a meeting, which is fine. It took only -- What have we been here for hours now? I've lost sight of my time. We've been waiting for a recess at a conference for quite a while now. I'm amazed that we senators are going to have to come up here in a series of hours at the President's conference board to ask for something as special as taking a recession to discuss the results of a huge matter involving the public's trust in the banking system and in the Minister and the government. So it's finally come, but unfortunately, it's taken way too long. I just hope we find some conclusions in this case that are satisfied, because I say again here: I don't think it's acceptable, or I think it's a wonder if more part is really going to make that decision to end this case so that we don't settle on this important process so we can settle for the conclusion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u122	Madam President. Yeah, we're finally going to a meeting with the highest level. The general president in the hope that the greater part, not only hears what we're saying, but understands the reasons why we're requiring this to be a professional, thorough investigation of the government's sale of things in Iceland. It is so ironic that such a professional investigation must take place in the chains of more part of the council, which may be primarily concerned with government and government activities and that no unpleasant things happen to them, but less about public interest. There's something ironic about us being stuck in it, in this majority of people who don't want to investigate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u123	Madam President. It is important to keep it in place when speaking on the other hand about the Universal Research Committee and the Federal Accounting Committee, that the National Reexamination Study of the Bank on Twice, 2003, and 2006. In the meantime, new information had been received from Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and both were published that there had been nothing particularly wrong with the sale. Then, as we know, a board of investigators establishes the exact same language that all the shit comes to the surface. At that time, a government accountant was asked if he was standing by his previous assessment at the bankyard. A government accountant then said that he did, and then he said: With no experience in this regard, even though the World Council Commission now has information and tips, which received the emissary of the General Assembly. In the spring, under the premise that he kept his confidence in their origin, and on the basis of his extensive research accounts... So it's just that a state accountant himself has acknowledged that he has come to an unconvincing conclusion (U.S.) in the past, because he did not have sufficient data. This is an absolute frame in all the importance of being a research committee that reviews this and that along the way we think it is also documented and testified that the government accountant himself has noted that a research committee has tools and tools that the government accountant does not have. [[Open the door, hear, hear, very good.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u124	A respectable president. I want to come here and express my satisfaction that there's an agreement for a meeting that's been requesting all day. But I don't think it's surprising that democratic elected agents, all of us, should have nothing to do with anything less than deviling here in a conference board to get some information and some research that we believe must be done. Of course, it's just an absolute government. We can request it to a financial committee; if three make any requests, it will start. But here, it just doesn't happen because the more part controls what to look at and what to discuss. It just seems very special that the Council rules like this. We, though in a position of government, should have the full right to request all the research and information that we believe we need to make decisions thereafter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u125	President. A member of the Court has the right to take the initiative, and it may be his own personal examination of the points that he feels are necessary to examine. The problem is, he's not that well financed. In spite of our efforts in the smaller part of the council to improve this, the days of this kind in the majority of the sector, so a state accountant does not have enough money to cover all the initiatives available there. So there's a lot of things going under that wagon. What I'm worried about, Mr. President, if Government Accounting is exactly with this initiative to follow a case, then if a Minister comes and tells a National Reconnaissance to start examining something that a Minister is responsible for, then there's something that has been contaminated and the initiative of the Government's decision. That's what worries me. I'm not minimizing it, I think a Government Accounting would win it professionally, but it's certainly uncomfortable that a minister would interfere, because a state reexamination is having the possibility of looking at this by his own initiative, only if the money was available.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u126	Madam President. Recently, the president who now sits in the chair said that the president heard what the senators said. And he certainly did, for three days later, a meeting came to the council. So all I want to do is thank a respectable president for keeping his office a positive year and thereby contributed to some understanding of this debate between the classes. Because it's natural that we've been working it out in the Senate room for two and a half hours if people can just sit down to discuss something I thought yesterday that we'd all agree on. It's ridiculous that the management forces are putting us in a position to involve the conference room in this long time after arguing over the council for weeks that the work of the council was out of control. Here are 17 issues that would have been left unsettled on the program that would likely have been possible to complete to a large extent if government personnel hadn't been in such a mess with us and themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u127	A respectable president. The track's starting to scare. I have nothing against a public accountant, I didn't really know his name until today and I didn't know he had just been assigned, but he doesn't have the tools and tools to handle it. Why do I say, "The tracks scare?" Let's take this case that I've done a multiple-item here in a pita, the case that got lost in the Supreme Court on the lack of habitats. Who in the beginning pointed out to the government that this was a crime long before it went to court? A member of the Generals. On our authority, he said: "You're breaking the law. What did the government do? Ignored it. I took it before the district court. Said the district: You're breaking laws on the poorest people, people in very poor hands. What did the government do? I took the case for Land Court. The court said, and confirmed the court: you are breaking laws on the poorest people of the country. What did the government do? I took it to the Supreme Court. The track's starting to scare.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u128	A respectable president. The price of Iceland Bank stock today is 128k. The price of purchase for the qualified investors was 117. In view of this, the general population of 5 billion came to be. due to these relapses. There's a lot you can do for 5 billion bucks. and there's also a lot to do for 700 million people who went to stockbrokers. The people's team has repeatedly recommended a change in budgets for raising financial resources to public insurance for much less than 5.7 billion dollars, but they have been rejected immediately because there is no money for that. Yet, 5.7 billion can be thrown to the sink because it is the same as it does on Wall Street. It may not be strange that the government doesn't want the home's research report, but I insist on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u129	Mr. President. I recommend here for a bill to legalise the warrant for the release of Reykjavík City to appoint a committee to investigate the operating room. In the last century, the Children's Health Committee of Reykjavík cared for a nursery within the city. Over the years, criticism of the operation, both on the scene of the city council and in the media, has been shown to have failed to care for the basic community to protect the well - being of young people. In view of this, a thorough investigation of what took place in the city's nurserys in the last century is important, with a view to revealing the truth. Last summer, the city council of Reykjavík agreed to propose a search for me for the necessary changes to be made to measure the assessment of the behavior of a nursing home run in Reykjavík in the last century. This bill, which is placed here, responds to this quest and will of the city to order a commission to perform such an assessment. The aim of the legislation is to enable the city of Reykjavík to get a clear description of the function of the concerned nurserys, where possible whether and to what extent children were saved there, ill treatment or violence during the period of the stay, regardless of the consequences of the children saved in nursing rooms after the stay, and finally to have further suggestions on how to react if necessary. The bill suggests that there will be a legal license for the city of Reykjavík to set up a committee to check the operating room for children who were run by the Children's Institute of Child Welfare. The bill examines the objective of such surveys, how the Committee conducts its activities, including access to government-based data relating to the function of the Lullaby Labs, reports for the Committee, and other sources of information. In short, Mr. President, these are the key elements of the bill that is given sad reasons, as we all know. It's a dark spot on the history of children in Iceland, and it's very important for both the children and their parents who are connected to the Lullaby, to inform this case. I'm not going to have any more words on the bill here, but I think it will clear up mostly on its own, but I think it's in favor of all members of the council. I suggest that after this discussion, the case will be referred to. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u130	A respectable president. I want my heart to agree with this with the highest. The prime minister and we on Relation support this matter. I want to thank you for the rapid response of the prime minister, to bring it in, to inform us about the career of a nursery and what happened there, to get a better picture of what happened there, so that we are better equipped to cope with the present, as well as the future. Then, of course, we are happy that we are at least to be approved here today by one board of inquiry although we would have liked to have at least one. two, like the highest. Minister should be aware of. But this is important and is important for those involved and especially for their families, so that my discussion is here in this public address. The prime minister is simply thanking the minister for this. I hope this case has begun right away. But I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would then see how she envisions the progress in the time frame in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u131	Mr. President. Thank you. Her senator's word. It is important that this investigation and the reason for me asking for it to come on the program here is that I hope it will be done before the council closes in spring and I think it's only natural that the council needs to go over the matter at some point. The city wants to be able to engage in this study as soon as possible, and it's important to them that these sources are available. The preparation has taken some time, even though it was relatively rapid, as it were. One senator said, but it will always take time to try to shape the boundaries of the material. As shown in a report, certain comments were received during the consultation process, i.e. Some of them, but others do not, because it is thought that we have sufficient guidance in the previous law on how to treat children, the so - called ecology laws. A senator, of course, knows well. So I now hope that it can go relatively fast. But as we know, because of reason. A senator named research committees, may take time for their work. There's something we know from the work of the former committees, but I know those people who have fought for this case will be very happy that it's at least Come to this place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u132	I'll agree with this. Well, it's a good thing that this place is at least going to be, although it may not seem that the progress is fast enough. Nevertheless, it is being put in, in my opinion, a somewhat professional process, but it is important that the council be very careful about these details, if it is possible to make the matter even better on the part of the council. With the other NTSB, I would've wanted us to have done it today and we'd have saved time. But I'm not staying with it. I'm just saying, there's just a little bug in me now as far as I'm concerned. The other thing, about the eco-res, was what happened with them and how they were made up, perhaps especially because we really had one person whom everyone respected, and everyone had confidence; ex - whiskers. paritaprevir Guðrún Ögmundsdóttur, who with his own character and intuition, his human nature, captured and embraced the infinite pain that followed and had to do with the ecology in such a miserable way. I know there's ambition in all categories to do this well. I also know that we will remember that those who choose to do the work will build trust. It is also the role of the research committees and their members, to build trust, as did Guðrún Ögmundsdóttir. It was a career we should look to in this matter about the nurserys, and I don't believe it. Minister would agree with me. But I support this case, and I hope there's a good review at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u133	Mr. President. Just to give an explanation as to why. A senator asked about them we've tried with the city to evaluate how long this investigation might take and is expected to take less than a year, but it is recommended that at times such research be carried out. It is assumed that this may affect approximately 1,200 children saved in nurserys, who are now adults, might be aged from 49 to 70 years if they are alive. We know that the city archive has received 107 persons' confidentiality requests about their stay in the crib room, so that's at least A group we know about. But this is our plan, after considering the case with the city, that it could be about 1,200 children. I'm happy as hell. A senator says. I hope there's a parapolitic support here, and I am confident that after my dealings with the city, they will be very effective. I can only feel it on all my dealings with the mayor and his people in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u134	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister for coming to the Assembly Hall and measuring this important matter. There's been quite a powerful discussion here all day with other research committees, so I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. Prime Minister, if she will see the importance of providing committees or tools for researching what needs to be done through any available means. This is a bill that needs to be provided to give the city of Reykjavík permission to appoint a committee to examine the operating room because such a warrant is not available. In this bill, it is necessary to specify which sources the committee will have to provide data, how it behaves, whether it can be called upon to answer, or whether people can fail to answer, etc. This is exactly what matters when an investigation is initiated, that there is a legal basis for an investigation and in what way, because these types of names are not like the police, who have extensive access to research. Committees have very limited authority. The same can be said of a state reexamination that has limited access to asking, requiring answers, demanding data. That's why I simply want to ask the highest. A minister whether it does not consider it important that the law clearly define what sources were and, if we want an investigation to be sufficient, that these sources are being given, that the lawgiver grants the necessary authority so that an investigation can take place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I can only say yes, I realize that it is important that those who study these matters have adequate authority. But I'd like to mention it here, too, because of it. A senator puts it in context of other issues, that in this case a very thorough discussion and preparation of the city of Reykjavík was given to set this issue aside, to determine which authority would be required, what questions should be answered, to review the points received, etc. Thereafter, the Ministry of Presidency consulted us. The original idea of the city was that the Ministry of Presidency would carry out this investigation. In fact, the conclusion became that it would be better for the city to receive the authority it needed to conduct this investigation. In this context, I'd like to say, because there's a lot of research committees that have been discussed on other issues today, that it also counts that the Council puts it down, as I know it would be planned, including... ... witha great meeting here at the end of the Passover with the state's Bankisy and other sources, how we want to approach that matter. I can assure you what. A member of the Parliament that I care about the fact that everything is on board, whether in Reykjavík during the 20th century or selling the property of the state in banks. I can promise you what. A senator that I think it's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u136	Mr. President. How different it is to study the treatment of children in nursing rooms for years and decades that took place in the past! The number of children under and under which they were there should naturally be examined for years. In contrast with what is going to happen on the bank sale in some six - hour frame, breaking out of a date, with certain rules, so that we need not worry that it will be insurmountable to post it in some kind of process. How much do I need? Ministers to allow officials to agree that the General Commission is given this commission. Something else I'd like to ask the highest. A minister is the task. The panel of welfare committees suggested that a research committee be established that examined the treatment of adults, disabled individuals, and adults with psychiatric challenges that were saved in homes or institutions on the part of the State during the past decades and up to today. It was approved here by a synopsis proposal to have some sort of investigation, but it had to be submitted to a Senate resolution that a research committee should be established. Where is this case? So I'm asking that the case took place in the meantime into the Ministry of Presidency. Is there a council resolution now at this spring council on the General Board of Study Committees to examine the present also, how do people with mental challenges and disability of the public, in closed divisions and elsewhere? Where is that case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u137	Mr. President. Hv. A senator here referred to the proposal of a welfare committee, which came from a discussion about the treatment center Eagleholt. To answer that there were three men appointed to be named Þríd, the Þórdís of Ingadóttir, who have proclaimed that they are due now during this month. This is later than expected, for a number of reasons, the work has taken longer than expected, but it has been proclaimed to produce in this month, in April.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08.u138	A respectable president. I welcome this request. Interestingly, the prime minister said earlier that there could be 1,200 children, even in his 70's. Of course, children are not in their 70's, but they may have been 60,480 years old since they were broken. What lesson can we learn from this? It is as if the government were more protective of the system, defending what has been wrong, than of looking after victims, and even doing so for ten years before accepting that some action or research may be needed. The Kingdom must not give way, even for tens of years, thus denying justice to the people throughout that time. A lot of research has been discussed here today. We have been discussing, as noted, one event that took place not just ten years ago but that took place in six hours ago. Rather than waiting for weeks, months, or even decades to do something, it would be a good change to take immediate action. In this context, I would also like to remind you that the collapse is during the bar mitzvah. In the fall, it is 14 years old. Do they need to get to their 70's before they see what happened after that, how things were handled? I rejoice, as I said before, a study of the nurserys and trust that it will be good and thorough and give the victims a voice that will be heard, that they finally experience the fact that their stories are being taken seriously and that they are important and that their stories are important. I'm the highest, too. The prime minister to change this exodus of the State, always to defend and defend his actions over grave and death, even when it becomes clear that they were wrong. That's not good. I just wanted to do this for at least three of the research reports that have been discussed today. They have every right to be heard, and all of them have voices entitled to hear.
