ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u1	Borist has written a letter from Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, 7th of them. Smoke. n., that she won't be able to attend next week. So today, on Monday, January 31, Eva Dögg Davíðsdóttir, who is listed in the district, sits at the General Assembly as her deputy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u2	The letter of Eva Dögg, the daughter of Davíðsdóttir, has already been investigated and approved, but she has not previously taken her place in the General Assembly and is therefore under oath to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u3	Eva Dögg Davíðsdóttir's daughter has signed her commitment to the constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u4	The president wants to say that seats have been added to the Assembly Hall, which are free to be used by members of Congress, but the previous seating vessel will continue to be used for a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u5	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, High Vegetation and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign and Development Collaboration Ministers, Tourism, Business and Culture Ministers, Education and Children's Ministers, Social Affairs and Employment Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u6	President. It seems that no one escapes the fact that economic conditions in the community are quite difficult and distressing to many. We're dealing with 5.7% of inflation. However, if the housing team was not included in the index, the inflation would be 3.7%. That's why I'm simply obliged to ask the highest question. Prime Minister, how are the collective agreements made in the past government, which she was also prime minister in and led, where the material was available, and the understanding seemed to be that the mortgage should be taken out of the index number - why it was not. Since she's a member of the State Minister, I'd also like to ask her if she should do nothing. We know that with 5.7% of inflation, the price-settling mortgage will be paid 30 million. K. loans, raise 500,000 bucks. every year or about 46,000 dollars. in a month, and a lot less for people who don't make ends meet. We know that we are importing raw products and necessities that have gone up tremendously in the pandemic. How's the top? Prime Minister and her government set out to respond? Is the map taking the mortgage out of index? Is it in the maps to lower the value tax on the most necessary foods and other items to help with the home so that something is mentioned? But I expect and I hope at least to the maximum. The prime minister may have something much more to say, but I may have ideas to ask. Other than that, I have nothing more to add unless the situation is serious and I believe that everyone who wants to see it sees it. I'd also like to ask a respectable president why isn't the light flashing, so why can I talk forever? Is there something wrong with us?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u7	That's the exact comment. paritaprevir Sæland Howil. The clock on the speaker's hand is a little bit of a struggle. The President must, if it doesn't improve, signal with the bell.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for the inquiry. First, let me mention the particular thing that she came up with in the beginning of her case that concerned the mortgage. It is true of the senator that a statement was made that the indexial housing team should be considered during the last term involving biographies. This was done in collaboration with the labour market partners who had established this case, i.e. The labor movement had particularly promoted this. He was missed from taking him out of the index, and for this, an important argument was taken up in a very detailed report on the housing team. There is room to debate how it is calculated into the index number, but perhaps, if I take it in a very simple matter during this short period of time, it was thought that, in general, it was generally that the housing was contained in the index figures of countries, it is calculated differently but in general he is, and that it would not give an actual image of the indicator number if the mortgage was taken out. So it was decided in very good cooperation with the labour market partners. But that is exactly what happened. A senator says, part of the inflation development we see today, is driven by the price of housing. Part is driven by the introduced prices development, can be called, for we see in the exact same way how in the western ocean to the United States, where the inflation is now 7%, which is the highest inflation in that country since 1981, or Europe. Consider, for example, Germany, which is known for its stable prices, the inflation there was 5.3% this December. Things are simply associated with increases in raw prices that affect prices. This does not change the fact that certain things have to do with the development of a housing market, and I'm going to find out more about it in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. Actually, I didn't get an answer, nothing that I hadn't already made in the inquiry before. I asked: Is it now appropriate to respond and take the mortgage out of the index? We see that the inflation would then just go down to 3.7%, and we would change the overall score of credit to those who have insurance insurance, like a guillotine. Is there any point in reducing the value of consumer products? And then another thing, this inflation is so far from being imported, it's one of the biggest things in a housing market can ever be, and you're kind of paying a million for one brick, which is now getting pretty deep in the year. The population was now a class, e.g. with an idea that--yes, okay, Alzheimer light. I forgot. But also time's up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u10	Mr. President. I have no doubt that there are many good ideas that come from the Gang of the People, so I say it here, and I want to reiterate what I said. [[Great.]] Hv. A senator asked about the mortgage, and I thought that I had made a very clear answer that it was a government decision, in consultation with the labour market partners, not to take it out of the index, that may not change an underlying position. With respect to the housing market, we are. A senator agrees on these points, a special consideration is needed. He was a subject at the last meeting of the National Economic Council, where members of the workforce sit along with the Secret Bank and representatives of state and rural society. It considered the success of working with the suggestions laid out by the campaign for housing of 2019. A large number of these measures have been completed, and this is reflected in a third of the 3,000 houses built here in 2020 and 2021 due to government action. But we can also see from the Habitat's population that we can expect an increase in construction needs each year from 3,000 apartments each year to 3,500 apartments a year. [[The president calls.]] It is clear, then, that housing needs to be taken care of. I'd love to have more time here, Mr. President, but I don't have one. (Forseti (BÁ)): The prime minister was 28 seconds over the talk period, and the president wants to remind us that a speech period in unsubstantiated inquiries is limited.)
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk about. Minister of Foreign Affairs as vice-former of the largest administration party. It has been the dramatic messages received from the Independence Party, one by one directly from the government, the decisions presented last Friday, and then the way ministers of the Independence Party express themselves on the levels of the House or on interviews. We'll hear you at the highest. The minister of finance, the chairman of the Independence Party, makes it appear that lawmakers are smiling at the disease - prevention procedures we are under. V.E.G. Ministers, Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir and Þórdís Gylfadóttir, the Mother of God, have spoken in a wise manner, in interviews and outside the government, and then nothing will happen. Of course, what was presented here last Friday is nothing more than an extension program. This isn't a skirmish plan. They're extending the state of the disease prevention in this country without any grounds. And in fact, the chairman of the largest board of directors, the highest. The secretary of the budget, Bjarni Benediktsson, feels that law-presidents are smiling for the current action. What do you expect from the largest board of directors in the coming weeks and days, I hope, in this regard? We know that if someone sits in custody and there is no basis for such saving, the sufferer is released the fastest within the day. But now society is being held in this position and introduced with a bang and pug that such unnecessary measures should be maintained for seven weeks. I have seen dead bodies on a funeral happier than the minister who was prepared for the presentation of the prime minister last Friday.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A member of the council is glad to have the opportunity to review this matter, although, as most people would probably be very tired of talking about it. Therefore, I also rejoice over the signs, data, not only signals but numbers, facts and words that tell us that we are on our way out of the Covid epidemic as we have known it and that the ultrasound variant, which almost everyone is contracting today, is really different from what has been before. I've said it many times and again here, I feel that there's a exchange at the government table, at meetings, on steps, in interviews, and other things just healthy. I think it's a sign of weakness, and I like that there's room and space for such questions and for that sort of conversation. I feel that we in the government too have been successful in coping and having conversations and sometimes disagree on one of the biggest projects that governments and society have ever had to deal with. I have tried to reason on these matters myself. I disagree with the senator that this is an extension program. However, it is a clean, completed system that I hope will be able to take on bigger steps if we continue to see the developments that we now face. It is also important that we show understanding that we are in different places. We are also like people in this country who lose patience with this disease and this assignment. In that respect, I try to show understanding that we are a woman who is a whore, and we need less time to make sure that all of this has come into existence, as we have known. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And I sure do believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, but I think it's rather fine, I have to admit, because it's only a few days since the highest. A health minister said that his words and conduct were the highest. Ministers of the Independence Party to undermine the aims of the disease prevention procedures. How do they hit that word at the highest. The minister of state, a subsidiary of the Independence Party, as we are looking to form at the beginning of the last terms, the left movement walked a green supply, such as no caution in dealing with the Supreme Being. Minister of Justice, who disbarred from office to demand left green? Is it not time for the Independence Party to settle down on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u14	Mr. President. This project is not about the groups that stick together to the government or some particular players inside it. This project is about balance in ensuring that disease prevention is sufficient to protect people's lives and health and that we have the economic activities needed to meet them. But I reiterate what I've said before, I feel that we're in this place right now that if we're taking over the ultrasound variations and the danger it represents, I don't see that we're discussing the social limitations we're having today. To me, it's always the essence of a matter, and we should aim and try on it. That's why I'm glad that we're taking the steps we're taking, and I'm making a lot of hope that you can take larger steps within the amount of time you suggested, because it's not possible to get rid of dates because we need to make sure that we're within the framework of the law when it comes to our authority to apply such restrictions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u15	A respectable president. Government consultations have appeared as the bill of the Supreme Court. Minister of state to change the alien law on international protection. It looks like the highest. A minister there is either suggesting a legal adjustment in his field, as well as in the top language field. Social Affairs Minister, who then must agree with the bill. I'd like to ask the highest. Social Services to the changes proposed to be a fugitive that 30 days after the rejection of an application, all services fall down, including housing, forwarding, medical services, and is not the exception of a group as a result of the escaped illness. It is worth noting that this 30 - day delay is only for those who come directly from non-EU countries and those who do not come from so - called secure states. The 30-day delay does not apply to the others, to all the others who somehow came from other countries, and to the loss of their natural rights after the government has refused their application. Now let us see that by doing this, the person who is involved in an accident or one who has serious health problems cannot have any service in this country, not health care, and who will live on the street at the invitation of the Icelandic government. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs what he and the highest. The Minister of the State believes that he is able to achieve such changes, to put people under the wall of a city and of a town while awaiting an evacuation, and thus the government cannot have any perspective on where the people are, or how they are doing, or to render them a vital service while awaiting disfellowshipping. [[The president calls.]] It would be nice to get an answer from the highest. Social Minister on this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u16	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Talk about a bill that's what it's all about. A senator brings up certain factors - if I'm watching the same bill as that. A senator, i.e. which contains certain aspects of the work permit... [[Up front.]] It's not. So that's the other one. Okay, okay. So a senator is talking about the ministry. I've got it now. Thank you, my dear. Senator. I have to admit, this is something I have to sit better over. I think this is something we need to look at. It has been in the discussion in which to try to deal with the factors or the following group of people left behind by Covid, who have received a check on the country, how to make it easier, and how to help them get back to their homes who have refused to go home. The project in my mind is how we can solve it. Then there are some suggestions presented in this introduction to the minister's bill. But I want to learn more about this; I'm going to be completely honest with it, and will do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is unfortunate that when a person with the service of people in search of protection in this country is so strange that in a judicial hearing, there is a bill from the highest level. Minister of the I.R. for the top topic field. Department of Social Affairs and Employment Services. This is one example of the confusion that this transition has caused within the regime, something we here in the government stand against, for the perspective is clearly absent, and ministers know the evil of their domains. Of course, a person has a clear understanding that it takes time to enter an office, but it's unfortunate when ministers are actually offering bills that are not in their fields. Then finally I want to ask the highest. The social and workforce minister has been informed of a service contract with the Red Cross of Iceland, whether he is aware of the resignation of that contract, but the staff of the Red Cross received the resignation today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u18	V.E.G. President. The decisions we've made at the Department of Social Affairs and Employment are simply making a deal with the Foreign Institute now for several months so that the ministry we're accepting is not interrupted and that we're responsible for it. The undecided contract does not comment on the arrival of the Red Cross, and I believe that while we're trying to coordinate the service of the trustees and of those here who have received international protection, we need this bed that I'm giving us, several months. During that time, I have had no intention of canceling a contract with the Red Cross, and I have thought of making a deal with the Foreign Institute for these matters until we have had a chance to arrange these matters in a proper and good manner. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u19	A respectable president. To become an Icelandic citizen, it may be an extremely important legal matter for those who seek it and for a civil right to enrich a community of people who want to be part of it. As we stand here and sit here, we may not realize how much our citizenship means. It knows those who have no citizenship, and those who for some reason are unable to use the rights of that citizen's rights, such as. individuals from Syria. Today, the Icelandic government order is given in two ways by civil rights. On the one hand, civil rights are granted by the administrative decision of the Foreign Institute to meet strict conditions, residence times, and financial status and so forth. On the other hand, civil rights are given by law from the Council, and the Act on that charge is very clear: The Foreign Institute is required to gather and submit certain data to the Council, which then decides. President. V.E.G. Not only has the Minister of State acknowledged publicly but he has simply prided himself on ordering the Foreign Institute not to follow the law to deny the information he needs to do in order to carry out his legal role. This he does in his own words because he feels that the law should be different from what it is. But, President, counsellors must abide by the law entirely from their opinions on them. To instruct the Subcommittee not to comply with laws that a minister doesn't like, there is a legal violation of the Minister's responsibility. So I ask the highest. Based on the fact that a minister of the government to which he is leading, the prime minister is afraid to break the law and violate the council: How will she react?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u20	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say, about that matter as of now. paritaprevir Arndís Anna Gunnarsdóttir recorded, that I firmly believe that this is a very important document in the civil rights Act, which says in Article 6. that the Council is legally entitled to civil rights. I know some guys are out there. Councilmen and the highest. Ministers have had a different opinion, but I have just always considered it part of the role of the Generals to be able to enter in this way and provide citizens' rights by law. I have understood this matter so, from a discussion I have heard in this chamber, that the president of the Parliament and the head of the Board of Education and the Board of Education agreed to this understanding of the law and proclaimed that these matters would be taken into custody to ensure that the law would be followed. I think she's totally clear about it like a dog. A member of the U.S. National Institute says that these comments should be prepared by a police officer at the applicant's residence and then gives a review of the application to the council. So the Law article cannot be any clearer than that. Because of what? A senator asks about my position, I think it is absolutely clear that ministers should follow laws like other citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Even if I feel that I have not yet received an answer to the question, the prime minister for the answer. It has been said, on the part of many people here at the council, and by the president and others, that this work is to be done and made payable. It hasn't worked. The situation is that governments are now inviting the council to submit to them the applications that are suitable for the Agency itself. There is no evidence that deliverance is in sight in this matter. Therefore, I would like to reiterate my question: It is clear that a minister has appeared in the media and acknowledged that according to his instructions, the National Institute of Iceland is not going to obey the law. They do not intend to hand over the information asked, and they have a legal obligation. What will prime minister do to cope with that situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u22	Mr. President. I can do nothing but repeat what I said here very clearly: Legislators must follow the laws of the land, and that is true of this special minister like any other minister. All I can see is that the laws of the law are very clear. There is no alternative to having a conversation with the minister in order to meet the conditions of this law and to comply with the law. It's my firm opinion, and I will have such a conversation when possible with the Minister, as I believe, that the president of the Senate was already referring to a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u23	A respectable president. In recent years, there are significant contracts that work with various groups in Iceland. Today, however, the situation does not give rise to optimism. We are experiencing the greatest inflation in the last decade, which is far beyond that of collective agreements based on. Many groups now step forward and describe their status. These include a basic - school teacher who recently passed a collective agreement based on a biographer contract. The director of BHM steps up and says that education needs to be assessed for pay and immediately responds, including: from the ex-president of Chemicals, which represents the continued increase of the lowest remuneration. It was on the basis of agreements at the latest agreements to highlight a specific increase in the lowest salary, which seems to be broken. In today's inflation, large groups find that their wages are dwindling. These groups will require redressing. The quality of life is undisputed due to increase in prices, prices for food, and increased housing costs for growing growth. How do social and employment ministers predict that collective agreements can be made in the current situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u24	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry that is not small. It is a matter of great importance in the next few months here in Icelandic society. It is of concern that inflation is on its way and has been. It has been discussed today in this hall in part because it can be linked to what is happening in other parts of the world, especially because of the housing. Because of what? A senator in particular asks me how I can see that we're going to be able to handle this. I don't think we're facing a very serious challenge when it comes to making a bargain. We must remember that the parties themselves are making. Indeed, the arrival of the State is important and has often been a part of the agreement. The government, or directors of the administrations, along with me have already begun a conversation with the labour market about certain distinct factors involved. It is also interesting to look at the situation here in Iceland compared to the rest of the North countries when we watch a number of cases ending on the table of statehood. There are a lot more people here than there are in neighboring countries, and as many contracts as there are in countries with much larger employment markets. The challenge is large, and I'm convinced that the government will have to come into it as before. I think the house address will be a big deal there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd just like to remind you that the state is a big deal yourself. It is the state that creates the contract environment that is present at any given time. I'd like to mention that last week, the bank manager grabbed their advice to prevent the sponsoring of the crown for the second time this month. We know that this will benefit exports while consumers lose. This intervention prevents the bank's bank manager from reducing inflation, reducing growth, and improvement in the interests of its households. However, it should work to ensure that inflation is within the desired targets, i.e. less than 2.5%. Next, it may be expected that it will need to take on the growth of the steering growth in order to bring down inflation that has not been greater in a decade. This is the reality in which the Icelandic public live and there is no evidence that any change is to be expected during this government. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. Ministers are not troubled by the persistent instability they are offering people and the effects that they can, for example, can exert. make decisions from young people about living? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u26	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator again for the inquiry. As I came into my case earlier, I think there are major challenges ahead of you when it comes to collective contracts. All of us hear during the discussion that the workers of the workforce are beginning to specify something they feel needs to come and see. A senator entered it in his previous inquiry. I think it is extremely important that the decisions we make regarding the way the government is taking advantage of those who have mentioned them. That's my opinion. I mentioned here the existing housing issues that I think will be of vital importance in the administration of the government, as was the case during the last bargaining session, and have yielded fine results to a number of families who have thus been able to rent housing on an budget that they could not before and that they are very much concerned about. [[The president calls.]] Indeed, in recent years, the government has done much in the right direction in these matters, and it will continue to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u27	A respectable president. I wanted to talk to the highest. Prime Minister on the data and the evidence behind decision-making restrictions. First, though, I want to be glad that we have begun to lift the limits here and are considering how we can do even more. V.E.G. In September 2020, the prime minister was given a report from Páll's Hreinsson - ups on the demands that governments must meet in order to impose burdensome restrictions. It shows that we are in control of the government's choice of measures that are mildest and that are strict requirements to prove the need for the impairment. Also, there must be a link between measures and goals; the stricter the requirements, the greater the responsibility of the administration. It also states that as the situation continues, demand for the government to better investigate and provide information on the effectiveness of measures must be increased. That's what I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What data are there behind other than the aid of a psychiatrist's memo? Now a psychiatrist describes his lack of legal judgment, he cannot express himself on the legal value of his proposal, so I wish we could get that information. And also: What data and assessments are fundamental to the fact that we do not go beyond what is necessary and to what goal is the action being taken in relation to what I covered earlier?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u28	Mr. President. Yes, I have a rather serious issue where I and the then health minister arranged for Hreinsson to clean up the report as a matter of course. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason refers to it. Of course, a health minister reviews the laws of the law at a time and actually makes an independent assessment of the situation of the epidemic and of the health system in determining the actions of the individual. There's a 12th parr. a prenup where there is an outline of the conservation of the Ministers and the Surgeon at the time of official preventive measures. Then it is interpreted, so a comprehensive assessment must be made. There is nothing different here or far different from what happens in other countries. I guess a senator's been watching it. However, the world's nations have taken different approachs to see whether they choose to lift everything at once, as Danir has chosen, or do in steps, as Movers have chosen to do, and other northern nations have not yet made decisions about recovery. All of this includes the same pooled assessment based not only on hospitalisation rates but also on the number of infections, the proportion of hazardous variants in the infected, as we know that we are not free from the delta species, although the ultrasound variant has become substantially superior, as well as the health status which has been diseased because of the high number of health professionals who have been away from work because of illness. Of course, this affects the quality of the hospital, which is also part of the overall assessment required. We had our last meeting with various experts in the fields of human rights, law, and preventative measures around the New Year's Eve to evaluate the situation. But, of course, it is responsible for the highest responsibility. Healthcare Minister to evaluate the situation at a time. I can tell you what. The senator that the decisions we made last week, of course, are the suggestions of a psychiatrist and our conversations with health experts as well as lawyers, and this is coming later this week, with a very thorough risk assessment of the pandemic situation that will benefit us from further decision-making. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u29	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. The only data available that we can read and receive are just the notes of a disinfectant. I call for the assessment. I protect governments because they haven't always carried out the D.A.'s memo. They have decided to keep schools open, go to mass reduction faster than ever, which is likely based on some estimate. I'm calling for data, for example. children are evaluated for violations, effects on public health of young people, status of low-payers and other consequences of anti-pyretic measures, as well as legal assessments that the measures do not go beyond those required. But the highest. The prime minister said that such an evaluation would take place. There are no data to determine whether the preventive measures are under law and if they are absolutely necessary or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u30	Mr. President. Of course, this is important and the highest. While having a regular conversation with the council, a health minister is no doubt willing to attend the meeting of a health committee to discuss these matters. I can tell you what. A member of the Parliament that we have held regular cycles in the Minister's Committee on a consistent case where we called more experts, not just lawyers, but health experts, and we can get evidence of that meeting at any time. The big picture in this, Mr. President, when we compare this - and that's what I've done now on a regular basis, I've taken the situation in Iceland every week compared to other neighboring countries, both in terms of the measures in force and the results we've achieved in the struggle with the epidemic. However I turn that die, the percentage of vaccinations has been best here, the success of economic measures has been at best here, and measures have often been considerably more milder than in the countries around us. And I take the school as an example. [[The president calls.]] Of course, all of this will be restored later than this, and we have tried to do in a regular manner at the government table. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important to watch this international comparison when we settle this. I'm not worried about how Iceland's gonna get out in that comparison. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u31	A respectable president. I want to make it clear that much has been accomplished in the past 203/4,25 years in the lives of the disabled, but we know that when a young person in the field finishes or during high school, most of them are in a void. At the same time that they graduate, the roads lead to all eight of their peers. They all have opportunities. It has been known for many years how large the river marches are, but it is as if people come from the mountains when they are talking about a certain number of individuals within the graduation class. Of course, we do know that education is very limited for those 60◯90 youngsters who graduate each year and wait, as I say, little or nothing, this void. 12 of them enter the University of Iceland, which was set up in 2005 or 2006, every two years. In fact, the city's art school in Reykjavík has received temporary funding to allow six youths to enter a specially designed art track for the last three years, a generous offer that will be history since the fall. Since then, knowledge and infrastructure have been made available to shape programs for adult education but have been suspended for years in the past and have not been signed by the Ministry of Education. If it is a child - care minister's vision to tell us what he intends to do with the disabled from going to the workplace primarily after high school, a minister will also tell us what he will do with his professional life. This is the community responsibility of companies, the social responsibility of institutions, whether it's a state or a community, if we at any other table want this open community, which I hope we want to speak for and fight for. There are a lot of kids who can work in this group, take on simple jobs. However, the access is very limited. This group, in turn, completely relies on their backland, often exhausted, exhausted, tried to use all resources, calling for help. But the group themselves, this force, a variety, a sensitive, talented group of young people, needs opportunity, and opportunities do not come to them into the same environment and system. It's about the existence of these young people, but what happens is, as I say, that they end up in a void, this imaginary vacuum as political people, as the system, as a career, and everyone's been making it. That's why I say, it's in the hands of the Minister and Government to have the leadership that this country is actually equal to the opportunity for everyone. Or do we, a respectable president, intend that there will be one on the side of a first - class youth and then another - rated youth, the peers of those who want and yearn to sit at the same table, which takes account of their abilities and gives them the opportunity on their terms? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm asking the highest. High school and child - care minister: How will he meet the disabled after finishing his high school career? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u32	The president has to state that members of Congress and Ministers need to respect the speech period. Even if there is a short period of time at the council, it is not justified in moving 30 seconds ahead, as well. A senator did, and as it has happened earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u33	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Made K. Þorgerður's Gunnarsdóttir for the inquiry and taking up this case. And I'll start by saying, "No, it's not Iceland's policy that there are two classes of young people or two groups of children or other social groups. I agree with much of what the senator introduced in his language; criticism, anxiety, and how we can react. I know this, and I'm seeing it from just one side after I took over a new ministry. Social Services, which includes... The job market in it was a success, and I was able to put myself into it considerably from that side. In fact, through an advanced education minister of Alfreðsdóttir D. Alfrestir, an assignment group was set up for education, employment, and leisure for students who have completed high school careers. The group returned at the end of 2020, with the proposals for improvement and action. In this task group, representatives from the Ministry of Education, Department of Social Affairs, the European Union of Development, the Organization for Professional Affairs, Administrative Affairs, and Aggression, a team of people with developmental impairment. Some of these suggestions are already under way. Others are still in progress. Some of the suggestions that have already been developed are that once a special cohesion agent has been hired in half of the status set, which was one of the group's proposals, and the employee is at Developmental Help and is the standard funded by the Ministry of Education and Social Affairs, the NY School of Arts, was given the strength to re-enacteise a custom study for people with development impairment to receive a certain number of students, 12 students, for the four weeks of education and cultural studies, and the Schools of Education and Cultures, has been available at the University of Akúsa at the school for the opportunity of Dipolmbola for training people with inhibition, and similar to the invitation offered at the University of Iceland. So there is something else to do. In addition, the United States is moving to the Department of Social and Work, along with a class of higher education. The proposals of the task group were precisely considered that policy development in the educational wealth of employment and review of regulations would be regarded as the educational opportunities of people who have enjoyed the services of Polygent with the aim of improving access to education and education after education in the field. I end what I said here at the outset: It's not my goal that there are two classes of young people here. The report made with the suggestions that were available, many of which were very good and appropriate. the discussion about increasing employment, the discussion here, and the recording of this by the senator here is an incentive to ensure that the report will be followed closely. Although individuals have moved between recruitment and today there is another social minister and other educational minister, this will be an incentive. I thank you for the discussion, and I look forward to sharing in it below.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank the advocate for this case, which is very important, and I've just discussed these specific matters here at the General Assembly before. I agree with what has been said here about the social responsibilities we all have. After working in a high school career where there was a great deal of agreement with professional life, you will sense the importance of this work, i.e. When these individuals completed their studies, which I may have had some oversight in my time, they still had opportunities for part - time jobs in the community. That's what matters. It is not normal for these young people to sit at home after high school. That's exactly what we need to watch at all schools. We also have an art school in Akureyri, and very good to hear that there is a case or thought that diplomats at the university only need to be a general clear objective that a part of those who have access are students with disability. So I, a respectable president, take a heartful note that there's something to be given across the department.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you for putting this case on the schedule. It is thus with disabled young people and disabled people that we have, not just the community as some of them incomprehensible size, but the government, the one who puts the law and the authority, the greatest responsibility. We are simply under obligation to arrange for young people to go out into life, to be disabled, to be accepted, to be trained, to thrive on their terms. For that to happen, it must not be, such as the dog. One inquirer said that it is surprising to the government that each year the young people who need us need this service, and we need to take an organization that takes them and put them in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u36	A respectable president. I get involved in this discussion to emphasize and support the importance of disabled young people having the opportunity for a wide range of participation in society, employment participation, study, a wide range of education opportunities, and a range of education opportunities, just from their completion of school and after life as well as leisure opportunities. I'm happy for a job that's been done, and I'm at the top of it. A minister to follow the report published and, as we did in the United States, the tool available to young people throughout the country, young people and adults, disabled persons, often creating a very important and varied opportunity for various projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u37	President. When I see such issues, I would like to look up a financial program because it shows government policy on what they're going to do better in the other and these lawsuits. There is simply nothing in the current financial program for this party, so I expect to be the highest. Minister will step up and slap some policies on this in the upcoming financial programme for springtime. It was mentioned in the cover story in this case that it would have been difficult to make a deal with the United States. When I was a member of the National Institute of Education, the National Institute of Education made a contract to the press, so it seems possible to make a deal with the United States to cooperate with the Icelandic Education rather than in this way, which is a little strange. I'm the highest. A minister to prove this in the upcoming financial programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u38	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. I just want to remind you that the deal with the Arts School has arrived. Then I want to redirect it to the highest. Ministers that it is also possible how the legal environment is. Is it possible for the high school law to be revised in helping with the educational services of these young ones so that we can better develop the potential for them to gain access to their field of interest based on their own ability to comply with a school syllabus? Can we take a closer look, for example? The articles at high school or other areas where they can adapt, which can make them more equipped to deal with certain things in their secular careers and so that they can set aside markets for employment, in the interests of society? I want to know if there's any chance. I'd like to ask the highest, too. A minister will see if he can see the picture of talking to the educational center of industry and see if it is ready to come to a greater extent to the United States. I also believe that it is important to stress that changes in high school are a way that can create an amazing number of opportunities and the quality of life for young disabled people. That's why I want to impress on him a review of the high school law. I am concerned, however, with the advice, that now we find that the educational advancement of this delicate group, on the one hand at university and on the other, will actually be spread at three Ministry offices. We've got the Children's Department and School Department, then the university Ministry, which is supposed to take over the education program for this group, and then we have the adult education that is, based on the word of the Minister, now over to the Social Affairs Minister. This delicate group must not fall between a ship and a dock. I'd like to insist on bringing this in as soon as possible, the report and action, the plan of action. And finally, I suggest that we complete the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u39	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion and agree with many of the points presented here. Only in terms of that as a dog. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir entered the high school law and made changes in them, thus sharpening the position of these students. I think that, without responsibility, is just very exciting. This is not one of the findings in the work in the report, but I find it very exciting. My name is the Minister, because I'll look into it because I completely agree that if you can do this possibility and the duties that are in the law then there are, of course, a much more likely not to become a gray area in this regard. Hv. A senator specifically asked about the United Nations and what is involved in linking with the educational center of industry. Now is the time to move over, and I think there are opportunities to do so. Of course, even though these issues are moving in some way now, they still had more problems for these changes, i.e. The job market was at the Department of Social Affairs. So it will have to continue in this matter, from now on, to ensure communication and cooperation between recruitment and international systems. Then I'd like to say again that I'd consider this discussion, which was here as an impulse and take her into the Ministry. I will do my best to try to follow the results of the report and these suggestions in the Task Force and to keep the council as well informed as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u40	A respectable president. I made this request for a national palace and national stadium at the beginning of December. This was one of my first conferences during this terms, and I ask: " How does it feel to have a new national palace that is truly important to us that we all get as soon as possible? As we know, Saturday's Palace, in my opinion, is an amazing piece of construction, a child of its age. It does not meet today's needs and requirements for modern sports. I think it's a good idea that this inquiry comes on the very first day of the history of a major European handball tournament in Budapest, and I want to thank a minister in particular, who's a great athlete, for being out there to encourage the boys and keep an eye on our boys, there's a lot of people who underestimate it. It is important that sports minister's interest in each occasion is also understood and understood. I know he was in this magnificent palace we were in, a palace that takes 21,000 people, and it was built in a year and a half, in 18 months. I've previously pointed to the government's inaction, the lateness of the Covid case. In the past, more than a century ago, we built a hospital for TB patients within two years, so we can do this completely. The Hungarians made that decision. They also made up another palace, an 8,000 palace for Pick Szeeged, one of the big teams in Hungary, on the other hand, Veszprém in handball, and Pick Szeeged, however, they play their home games there. In the end, it's about making a decision, wanting to really support our national sport, our handball, to support our basketball, to support these sports programs that are so important to us as a nation, and I know that a minister's mind is there. We also know that we're not in the basket but also the handball. I can't especially imagine it now, a few days after the game with Dani, that we might be going to our national game in Denmark. No, thanks, I'll say, I don't care if I love my friend Dani and I respect the great culture, especially when it comes to handball. We have had enough groups, committees, reports, advice - everything is available, all must be made, and now a decision has to be made. It has been very simple for the government to make very sudden decisions. There are no reports, groups, or committees of setting up 2 billion in the terms of the plot. But it's all there is to it. It's all clear. That's why it's about political will. Reykjavík City is ready for the plan. I know that intimate societies may be ready to do this too. [[The president calls.]] Everything's ready. Now the ball, the good ball, is with the government, and I hope that it will speak clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u41	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry, saying that even if we had won Dani, I also would not have wanted to play the national game in Denmark, so that it would be completely maintained. Of course, that is how this project, as if the senator were doing well here, has been doing quite a lot of work in recent years and a conversation between the government and the sports movement about the future arrangements for these matters; what national problems need to be done, what future need of analysis is to be done about size, etc. Now, I'd like to say that the conversation that has taken place has resulted considerably in my feeling that the sports movement itself is also a little on the page that I already have this core. Men are talking about one national house for inside sports, as the senator came to, often speaking about it from basketball and hand lascivious. Then there is the national stadium for soccer and third for free sports. I think it is quite true that when it comes to playing basketball and hand-playing, the need may have become more tangible. In fact, I have the authority that the national basketball games were to be played in Kópavogur had to do with men inside the FIBA, the International Parrot football Union, that men were wondering if they were to cancel the parking lot at the Lavadal Palace because there was not enough movement on the case. Thus, everyone senses the pressure on it. I'd also like to say, because the Senator spoke of this matter as the first case she presented during this election period, that the first meeting I took during this election period was exactly about national stadiums, in order to figure out what the next steps to the case were, how we could move the matter that will move. However, it is necessary for the government to have a conversation with Reykjavíkurburg on this matter and with the sports movement. Where to Start? In what way? The government has now appointed a member of this task force... to be represented by the Ministry of Education and Children's Affairs, the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There's been a conversation with the city. I've had a meeting, both formally and informally, with Mayor Dagur B. Eggertsson of the Mayor, and we agree to start this conversation about the cost change, how it's going to be worked out, the design of the workers, and the final location. It is now a work to be started, not to determine whether to do this work, but how and how to get it started. I have no reason to expect anything else, because there has been an attempt to put a throw between the state and the city in it, of my conversations at Reykjavík City, but that there is a lot of struggling to find a solution in this matter, because it is a common project. We are also talking about the city's expense participation in this project. Because of what? A senator named neighboring communities as a possibility, so it is normal to have a heartfelt conversation with the city. We see that rural society is offering property even in the Great Rygúsavík area east of the Village Harbor, which is the expense element of this kind and I think it's normal that national stadium and national palaces will rise in the capital, just like the National Theatre, our music halls, and other monuments. I say, I will do what I can to get this matter to speed it up. The nature of the matter says not exactly when a shovel is to be taken. But the lead is getting shorter, and I hope we'll get a hell of a lot out of this spring line, drawing out how we're going on this important project. So the person standing here will do whatever he can to follow this matter firmly. I thank you for the support and strength at the council and look forward to discussing these matters below.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u42	Madam President. I am very happy that this matter is on the program here today, but I also wish that we would be able to get out of the footsteps and tire marks forever to describe a particular position and begin to describe certain steps toward the solution. We know that no house meets the quality requirements set out in international contests. We know there are diagnostic data available. We know that a palace that takes about 8,600 viewers costs around 7 billion. We know that a house that takes 5,000 viewers costs about 6 billion. In this context, it is interesting that the government has taken 2 billion to increase the number of Ministers. It is sometimes vivid to put figures in context, how much a palace would cost, what it would give to the nation. I will allow myself to claim that this palace would give the nation considerably more than the house the government is building itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u43	President. The 2021 financial program speaks of national stadiums, how to cooperate with the city of Reykjavík, etc. and how to plant these things. It's been two years since that financial program was adopted, and we're still in the same situation, it all seems to be going really slow. In addition, since there is a national stadium in the Gulf, for football and free sports, you might also consider just a certain particular position here in Iceland in a smaller format, e.g. you might think of wrestling sports events, and we might at the same time be talking about a set of narratives. So I put it into this discussion that we have to watch a little sport in all of this situation, both in terms of these international articles, but also in terms of our uniqueness in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u44	A respectable president. I am, like a whisk. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, a great supporters of both national and national arenas. The outstanding success of Iceland's young national team in handball at recent European conventions should be a reminder that if we don't begin to build a national palace the fastest, the national team and the Icelandic unions who compete in the European games cannot play their games in Iceland where no gymnasium meets the criteria set for international competition. It's my hope to the highest. Let the minister not only say the good promise, to speak with this one, and to speak with the other; but let his hands be strong, and make haste to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u45	A respectable president. It's good to hear an explicit answer from the highest. Minister here because last week he insisted on, on morning radio Channel 2, that there was some big race going on around the city. I became quite sharp, as I was walking in Reykjavíkurburg, which, as weeks pass by, will be much more beautiful to hear the declaration that the city has taken from 2 billion into these buildings. Thus, it is not in Reykjavík to establish a building of the condemned workers. This is absolutely necessary because we are not just on separate terms, but we have lost access to it. Of course, the Icelandic women's basketball team was allowed to play in Ólafsala in Hafnarfjörður by day, but the Icelandic basketball team had to play their national game in the world, did not get a similar parole. We are in such a situation now, and I am glad that the minister makes such an explicit statement, but I hope that he will get the money in order to deliver the big words.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u46	Madam President. I hope I've been misheard, but I thought a minister was teaching the sports movement a little bit, that it had to core, that it had been rather uncertain about how to approach the case, but now things were better. I hope I've misunderstood the highest. Ministers, since the sports movement has had its own business when these buildings arrive. Second of all, I want to point out the highest. To the late fall of 2020, this same government came with a declaration of national stadiums and national palaces. Six months later, financial programs are presented to 2026, and not 1k. A national palace. Third, the highest. Minister of an interview, not long ago, before Christmas, that his first case must come with the national palace, that it would be his first case, according to the definition of an interview made with him in Science. I'm going over the secretary's file, a file that the Minister is going to put on his side, his emphasis in this period, and there's no national palace. Of course, circumstances may change, and I stress that I know the highest. Minister is well- meaning sports. I need to know more than that there is a better analysis of the results, reports, and committees. I need to know when we're gonna get our national palace, the sports movement needs to know, and the people need to know. For God's sake, you're making this plain. When do we get our national palace?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u47	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. Just so I'll end it for a while. paritaprevir Þorgerður's Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir was wondering, which was unsure of her sports movement, I want to know that I've had a very good meeting with the sports movement where she has, among other things. For example, representatives of basketball, soccer, soccer, and free sports have made these jobs more on the same page than they were for the last two years. I was simply beginning to think that all of that groundwork is not lost because it is part of reaching a conclusion. I've had a very good conversation with the mayor about these matters. Special negotiations must be made with the city regarding what the city will be and what the State's share will be. It is the work that is about to be started and to emphasize the political importance of this, then it is not the Ministry's staff that will lead them on my behalf, but it is my political assistant who will lead them on behalf of the government. The conversation with the city is: In what way? When can we start? What will be the cost section? Then there is the conversation with the sports movement: Where to begin? How to Start It is a work that will take place for the next one to two months with the goal of getting shovels on the ground as soon as possible. That's the job. I'm not interested in pushing any more of the management groups or committees or other matters on this subject. I'm interested in moving this matter forward. I'm interested that we are on our way as soon as possible, and all the other talk and speculations here in the Senate hall are simply out of the open air. I'm going to follow this case very closely. It's in a government contract. We're going to finish this, and I see no reason to participate in the game of pointing to the city because I haven't found anything else, of my conversations with a representative there, but that it is willing to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u48	President. The health - care system is vast, and it seems to have just arrived. Although it has been obvious for many years and has deteriorated, the Covid epidemic has certainly brought it into the light and removed its veil of severity. Although the problem has improved by Covid, and is not being minimized at all, the epidemic has primarily shown how little our health - care systems can be. It's always in full swing and close to an emergency. It seems pretty clear that nothing can be done by surprise. You wonder, " Would my health - care system cope with a major accident without a medical emergency? ' So I ask: What plans have been made to promote the health - care system's ability to deal with sudden events, such as disasters or pandemics? Then we come to the stress of health care professionals. This appears to be constantly a requirement for workers to win and/or run faster. This must mean that people eventually give up and that there are many examples. Inevitably, the question arises: Does the threat of irreversible mistakes not greatly increase as a result of ongoing over-compression on employees? So I ask: What plans have been made to reduce the stress of health care professionals, especially at the emergency room, and when do they come to work? It also seems clear that the services of the staff are not at all good enough, and it realizes that there is no reward; neither is it that much of the female classes are involved, regardless of whether this fact complies with the government's equality goals both now and during the last term. The staff, the nurses, the doctors, the medical staff, the people in the labs, the cleaning room, and everything else I don't know how to mention, is the hospital, they are the heart. It doesn't matter how cool the new hospital will be if our most qualified people don't get to work at that time. So I ask: What measures have been taken to address the challenges faced by the Land hospital and prevent further information from health care professionals? Then we come to the elderly and serve them. Elderly people have been considered to be efflux problems. This is both ugly and disrespectful because the elderly in the hospital are not the problem because other alternatives are not the problem. The problem is that these issues have been thrown on for many years. What is being done in such a situation that elderly ones enjoy the best quality of life in recent years? Yes, the best possible quality of life, it should be the goal, but it certainly has not been the case in recent years. So I ask: Are there plans to increase the number of nurses or adults, and when can they assume that new space will be used? V.E.G. A medical minister is recently in office, so he receives a persistent emergency and may not quite seem reasonable to have to answer for the situation at this point. According to this, the same government has been in charge for over four years, and my questions depend on the work that has been done in the Ministry under this government to deal with the problems that have been faced for as long as you can see.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u49	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator and a captain, Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, for taking the stand here for land hospital affairs. There is a need for discussion in all aspects of life, whether we look at the size, the financial scale, or the vast role that we are going to play in our vital health - care system for the services of all the people of the country. Hv. A senator focuses on four factors, not just important ones, but very important ones that have been, and will be in progress. I'd like to say right now that it will not be solved in just one blow and maybe even more important because of taking it on a schedule like that. A senator does. First, you are asked about the pressures of emergency care, second, about design problems, third of which you will be asked about the number of nurses and finally the management and response to emergency situations, such as disasters or pandemics. To some extent, it's really hanging together. I will try to give you some perspective on what has been done, what it has returned, and will return. What measures have been made to reduce the pressures of health care professionals, especially in emergency departments, and when will these be implemented? The surgeon's position in the emergency department is equally monitored by the local surgeon. It should be acknowledged here that despite various ways of improvement, much more is needed. In view of such quality signals as waiting and residence times, the pressures are just too much when the stress points are the most. This needs reviews and solutions. It is not enough to refer to a new building. Treatment is a process that truly requires better housing and facilities and that soon patients should be quickly discharged into appropriate measures after treatment is completed. The need to keep looking for ways to secure and improve care for nursing and care. It hangs like this together. I'd like to refer to some planning and measures that included the proposal of a team of solutions to the crisis that appears at the hospital emergency room, leading to these factors. They are now all in progress, but they are not finished by many. It should be acknowledged that the number of suggestions given by the campaign group was put forward during the early months of 2020 at the time of the outbreak and that this has taken on a number of these proposals. Secondly, why? A senator of what has been done to stem the problem of design. Of course, it's a simple, respectable president, when I say that the working conditions and ideals are everything, but that's the way it is. There are, of course, a number of other factors involved in these key things and affect them. It is very important that the basis for the right design criteria, and I think we can do much better there, and the right working between the health professions, in terms of professional and team cooperation, from the services being performed. I think we can do better here. I'm sure you can do better here, as I say, especially to reduce stress. It's a bit like this, when you start looking for information about this factor, that the roles need to be defined better. There is no doubt, however, that we are under pressure and have spent much time caring for it, and this becomes our challenge in its own time and length. The proposals of the National Institute of Education and Health Care Systems have been considered, for implementation and implementation after a specific programme and in a financial programme, and I hope that these suggestions can be introduced soon. With plans for the growth of nurses and elegances as well. They are the object of a proselytism to answer that many of the initiative groups are about to face this many aspects of the task. This is where we come in for consultations and partnerships in rural and health services, development teams work, day-and-hour improvements, and walking services, as well as the growth of home service in the capital area. At the same time, there has been a growing number of people in both clinics and nursing homes. During the next few days, space will be added on Sólvegur and in March of Selephoss, and it will be temporarily useful while we are finishing this gap in the capital area, along with other measures. I'm here in the second speech to the fourth item, and I'm going to respond to the discussion here, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u50	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this discussion. I just want to think about whether it has been considered by the government to provide health care professionals, who are much of a process of demolition, and who was a pandemic, as we often received notice of, a temporary tax discount now that we may see the end of a pandemic; whether there are some ways to richly reward them for their unnecessary sacrifices in the last 24 months. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Ministers on the design problem and whether it comes to his opinion, now that we're sending our students out through a world where they're getting medical education, to promote recognition of education outside the landstones for those who want to live here, those foreign citizens who have fine education from outside the world, who are not approved by their education. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u51	A respectable president. V.E.G. The health minister spoke of the design problem as if he were a matter of adapting some efficiency or definition of the status of the person. The truth is, though, that the problem at the Land Hospital has a very simple explanation. She's the highest. The secretary of finance has consistently refused to pay health care professionals, especially those classes where much more are women, such as hospital staff and nurses, a decent salary. This is most evident in the fact that the two subsidies of these groups have ended in the law of Kjara. That's why I'm asking, "What's going to be the big one?" A health minister to make sure that he stops the bleeding that escaped this staff at the Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u52	Madam President. It's a good discussion here, and it'd be wish we had a lot more time, but I'm gonna believe that we're gonna discuss this a lot more in the future. I want to make a little use of the time to express a measure of anxiety over the next steps. If we looked back for two years, immediately the first government response to treatments for disease would need to be powerful in this country to save the vulnerable condition of the Land Hospital. It took two years and was successful in many ways, even though I fully agree that the hospital staff is certainly not holding back their position. Then, when it comes to relief, it turns out that it is the highest. A health minister does not agree that there must have been some disease prevention measures, and it gave a little tone, in addition to the fact that the two years were not especially well used, so that the year went deeper, on the part of the government to improve the situation at the Land Hospital. But I experience that we have returned to a certain zero. [[The president calls.]] These two years have made little progress in spite of the lesson we went through about the hospital's delicate position, and I'm worried about this, and I would like to say: " Where are we carrying this case? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How are we going to face this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u53	I still remind you that the session is one minute, not a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u54	Madam President. At the beginning of this month, the government published a list of measures to promote the status of a land hospital because of the stress caused by the Korean epidemic. It was there, for example. told me that at the moment when people had to take extra shifts, the Landspians could now pay for additional labor initiatives, which I thought were made at the same time, and it was said to strengthen the staff with private workers. There was no mention of raising pay so that they would want to work there. That's a real problem for the Land Hospital. Because there are too few people to work too hard, the situation is disturbing. It's too small of people because they just don't pay the money they need to stay in their jobs. I therefore agree with the concern of members of the Parliament who have chosen health care professionals, especially because it is not enough to talk about the importance of prospective candidates throughout the pandemic but do not follow through by showing the value of the pay contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u55	President. I thought it was a little interesting that a minister would ask four questions, but he only gets to answer three in spite of knowing exactly how long he will have to answer the questions. The answers are: We're looking at something, even though we know that during the last term, the Haclu project was specifically started to deal with manure problems and pressures, etc. and cost 500 million a year. It wasn't added, it's really part of the tilt trying to fix the designer problem we now have. Now this better work period was adopted, but it replaced a real growth, so it's just a pressure move. It wasn't an effort. There is a 2006 report that actually tells us how many employees we need in 2020 if things are going well. Even so, 15% of the predictions were needed, so we are in a very distorted state. A minimum of 15% more staff are needed at the hospital just to meet the predictions we have made in years before. [[The president calls.]] That's the minimum.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u56	A respectable president. Here we discuss one of the most important matters for our community, which is the land hospital's location. I think that because of the importance of the hospital, his position, and how large he is, where there are many professions that each of us has his own opinion, we need to get a powerful unit of independent experts to report the hospital and pick him up. How is this being done in other lands? The talk about the epidemic has been very much discussed under what pressures it is, but I just remember it as a matter of time since I got into the Council of 2013. And especially if there are accidents and such. You don't have to do that. I think we're gonna have to go to shock-testing the hospital and determine what his potential is and get him to do it by independent experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u57	Madam President. The basic problem is the long - term failure of our health - care system, especially our national hospital. In this regard, we are not just talking about a few losses but, for now, two decades. It's the basic problem. It's just that not everyone in the health system is having a low salary and I'm gonna get to say here that there's not the only answer to the problem. However, there are classes within the medical system that are unacceptable, which may mean that all female classes are really. You see, there's a systematic discrimination going on. Throwing Hicklu project aside - just name it - in labour market women is just not the answer to that problem. Class distinctions need to be addressed and improved, and good health care also needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u58	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for the answer and for others who spoke up here. However, the answer is that there seems to be no long - range vision, nor has plans really been made on how to reach it. They say this or the other is for consideration. The position is monitored, there are special groups, there are temporary solutions such as In modesty and so forth. That is, in fact, a very sad fact. What I was calling after getting answers was what work was going on to solve this problem and how, what course had been taken, and what plans existed, and how and what else to do. But, somehow, everything is just being done and not getting into anything. I'm just gonna trust it to the highest level. A health minister will handle this and go to this job. As for the design problem, and this is the thing that I've wondered about sometimes by a teacher, we sometimes place responsibility for the systems and functions of all kinds of systems, health systems, school systems, and other things, on the staff, it's accepted a small salary because these are such important systems and they have systems, with poor costs, and it takes responsibility, which is not theirs, on the system to function. Somehow, we must change our thinking. I'd like to mention that first too, and last time it's about patients' equipment. All decisions should be made against patients. People need to be comfortable, and they need to be able to do their jobs with dignity, but this is primarily about patient and patient equipment, as well as it is, a lot of examples, not good enough today. We have to deal with these issues better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u59	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is come on to the fourth thing right now. the client asked about, the ability to deal with an emergency. I'll refer them to the action plan under the prescription of the P.R.P. and in cooperation with the surgeon general and the Center for Disease Control. I think it is safe to say that experience with the epidemic has revealed the importance of having these plans, and, as with other recent traumas, these parties have proved to be well defined, trained, and coordinated. As for the hospital and the good discussion here, I'm the first to admit that it's all in the process, in the examination, in the shape and response. That's how it'll always be. Let's forget that tomorrow we can just say, "We've solved all the problems. It's that big institution. It is a big deal on the basis of the fact that this will be a permanent project. Human health care is a challenge to the whole world, and the need for this is increasing. However, I would like to say that at the hospital, there are many things very well done and that they are looking much better than those discussed here. It is true, though, that we have to deal with certain factors. We have a long - term health policy until 2030, where the hospital's role is defined. We need to look at the hospital in relation to all other medical services in the country. I think it's a big job to get my hands on it, and that's why I started talking about definitions of design, definitions of role. [[The president calls.]] I think we can do much better there. [[The president calls.]] I think the project is a little bit more aware of these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u60	Madam President. In an interview at the end of the last year, the parents of a three - year - old boy with a serious speech disorder described that the waiting periods for a speech pathologist were so long that their three - year - old son could expect to wait for two years before serving. The three - year - old boy has a speech program with a 18 - month - old child. His mother described anxiety and behavioral problems simply because he cannot express himself. Another mother told the same story at the end of her year. Her daughter was on the waiting list of all rooms on the southwest corner. Everywhere, she learned that the situation was two years late. In one room, she was told that her daughter was no. 723, child No. 723. A member of the then health minister was to provide an arrangement for benefits by Christmas. That group worked under collective suggestions for the service of speech pathologists to children. In fact, this group noted that there was no speech pathologist sitting there. I'd be interested to hear from the highest. Ministers to health care of these suggestions. At the beginning of the last year, I was told, about 350 children on a waiting list at the State Analysis and Counseling Centre. The waiting period is typically two years, with about 1,000 children waiting for the services of speech pathologists, and this waiting waiting is reported to be from 17 months to 36 months. President, to my mind, there is little that defines a community better than the way it treats children and society that makes a child wait for years before treatment and service that affects the quality of life of this child is not a growing society. Children have the right to have a professional service that is readily available and subsidized by the State. A child who waits for many years does not enjoy the ministry that is readily available. Time is against this child. I want to speak to the highest. The secretary of health to which he leads out of this situation. Which solutions are maximum. A minister proposes to the questions I raised in my inquiry. Experiencing the two - year work experience was really good, and I want to give the highest commendation. A health minister for that decision. But if money doesn't come into the health insurance with this decision, it won't be much more than just words. Will a minister add funding to this suit? The second point is that they need professionals. What are the minister's ideas to correct that? Health policy until 2030 points out that the number of workers should be in line with the scope of the service. There's speech training, and I'm interested in the health minister's viewpoints. I just want to set aside the simple goal that the government will be a part of the solution, not the problem, and will be allowed to listen to the point of view. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u61	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator and a captain, Fatburd Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir, for bringing this important matter to attention, the service of speech pathologists to our children. Hv. A senator first asks if I have used myself to shorten the children's waiting period for this service and to eliminate the two - year requirement. Yeah, I think this is the first thing I did when I walked into the Ministry. I just didn't understand that this was some point that was getting in the way, between the institutions, and between experts. I just didn't understand it, and I thought it was equal, and it had been done somewhere else. So that's the first thing I said, just say it. That's the way it was. I made it clear that this law was canceled by Iceland's Medical Insurance and Speech Pathologists. According to health insurance then, a contract with speech pathologists has been extended to the middle of the year while getting information and working in this waiting list and keeping it straight, let's get this straight. The children should not have to wait for this service, and there are, of course, many reasons. That's the situation. So newly written speech pathologists are now to be able to provide services that are subsidized by Iceland's Medical Insurance. In all, there are 14 speech pathologists who have graduated without two years of experience and therefore should be able to establish a contract after the condition was canceled. I don't have any information about how many people have wanted to get into such a deal and who are working in other ways, such as the local community. There's a lot of things that need to gather more about this, what it's like. There's another one of those cases that's gonna overlap a bit, i.e. where the speech pathologists operate. In payment of budgets, the Ministry of Health received an increase in budgets of the cost of this two - year reference, and the cost was estimated to be up to 180 million. K. According to health insurance data, the vast majority of user services are children from four to seven years of age. Thus, it is necessary to view this service as a whole in a way that enhances unity and ensures that the right service is performed in the right place. It is a group of three advisers, social and workforcers, the Ministry of Children and Education, as well as the Ministry of Health, to examine the service with this in view, and to make sure that children receive the service without delay and in the right place. One thing that has been examined in this work is the possibility of developing central lists, and it has been emphasized that the group is working rapidly and is scheduled to submit themselves at the end of March. It should then be clear whether or not such a central waiting list can be established. It should also be explained how many individuals wait for the ministry and exactly how long the waiting period for the ministry has been or is. This conclusion is expected to exist at this time. I just appreciate it so that this must be the basis for the contracts that need to be met with the six months in mind, up to that time. Then hopefully we will achieve a good and acceptable contract that will take over when this contract expires. You know, about the third thing. A senator came on, which was about design, professional, and service, which is clearly the key to this when we look into the future and the written negotiations, there is indeed evidence that these models were created because speech pathologists were missing, and there is a need to increase the number of graduates of speech pathologists. I think there's a way of saying that. The University of Iceland is the only school in this country that offers studies in speech pathology, and it's taught at a master's level. [[The president calls.]] I just need to add this answer, because it's a complete key to looking at the design and how we need to meet the challenge so that the waiting period is not the way it has been. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u62	A respectable president. As long as Iceland's Medical Insurance is dragging its legs down to the highest level. A minister scratches his head over what to do for the 1,000 children who are on wait list for years and suffers mobbing and difficulty at school, and nothing happens. Despite a beautiful statement, Iceland's health insurance hasn't yet settled down and made up with these newly released speech pathologists. Iceland's health insurance seems to be doing everything in its power to stop this service. In fact, in the past, the ESA has even mixed with the idea that this service is not to be rendered electronically by European communicators. I'm going to the top. Ministers to stop snooping when it comes to these matters and order Iceland's health insurance to dress up in a book?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u63	A respectable president. I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity to mention that health care in the country is often a failure. I wanted to encourage the health minister to be wary in the future when such complicated rules or conditions come into agreements, such barriers, and restrictions have an enormous impact on children in the country. I just wanted to encourage the health minister to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u64	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The head of the company, Dr. Alfred Þorbjörg Gunnlaugsdóttir, daughter of Gunnyll, for this important inquiry, but at the same time, it was difficult to hear of the painful experience of parents and children who are facing need of the service but are not getting it because the system says no, because the political policy of this government in the last four years has been in order not to consult an independent functioning body. It's supposed to shut down the system, try to stop us from trying to use everyone's power, have both strong public health institutions, and use independent active bodies, such as important speech therapists, physical therapists, etc. I'm especially glad to hear what's at the top. Minister does, I think he's going to start well by removing this crap. At the same time, I would like to encourage him to open up to using the powers of everyone in the medical sector, whether private or public, in order to reduce and reduce the quality of the waiting arts, whether for speech pathologists, physical therapists, psychologists, or elsewhere in the whole system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] All hands on deck, prejudice off in the control system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u65	Madam President. This is a fine discussion I thank you for, and I have full faith that a minister wants and plans to do better in this matter than the former health minister did in this same government. It's that simple now. I would like to ask him about his view of more fully using the technical solutions available in this sector because I believe there are few health issues where technology is better used than just the service of speech pathologists. In addition, it seems to me that a large number of people who are sadly awaiting the services of these experts live in the area of the country. Why is this not a trial? Why is it not a matter of using the services of those who truly can offer them? The fact is, that service has diminished. Companies that can offer it have had to cancel our contracts, e.g. Companys because of the way the government has been doing this. I'd like to ask a minister to pay attention at the end of that situation, i.e. if it is not intended to be useful. [[The president calls.]] - Now I see the President's getting a little bumpy, and I'm getting out of a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u66	A respectable president. I would like to get involved in the important discussion of the services of speech pathologists. Of course, this is a big step that was taken to improve the ministry by changing the rules of payment. But I also want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. A minister to observe especially the possibility of telecommunications and telecommunications in the revised work environment of speech pathologists and negotiations. I have experienced and watched speech pathologists perform very good service through a variety of technology, but it is also very important that studies for speech pathologists are available for those living in the country. Indeed, there are often teachers or others accustomed to serving this group that needs speech pathologists and wants to educate themselves in this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u67	Madam President. Thank you very much. The health minister is eager to hear the answers and is aware that he is all intent on making and immediately took important steps by decommissioning this two - year rule. But I wanted to impress him on the basis of checking out the health insurance that's being done. I would also be interested to hear if the staff I referred to at the outset would have provided some suggestions, the staff that would have been present at the time. A health minister ordered holistic suggestions on the service of speech pathologists. I realize it's a service and a seminary that's on the other side. This is a health - care service, a service that enters the schools, the age of the four to seven - year - old children, of course, tells a story about this. On the one hand, we have preschoolers and elementary - schoolchildren. I'd like to watch the diagnostics, too. It's costly, it's costly for local communities, it's hovered, and I'm asking if there's any way to make this diagnostic process really a part of the process to speed up children's service and treatment, not so that the diagnostic process has become an obstacle to children's getting services and seeing how to support parents and teachers in this situation. I'd be at the end, because I see that time is running away, wanting to take my mind off with my head. paritaprevir Of course, Katrín Friðriksson said that if governments intend to be part of the solution but no longer hinder it, they must try to use the available solutions, use the available technical solutions, and make an important answer to the inhabitants of the country, use the professional. That's where I get to finish. That's as far as I can go.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u68	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry and discussion here. I had come to the point of design, as well as to the technical solutions and services of the whole country. I have not yet received these pooled suggestions from the work force, but technical solutions are very important while assessing the need for design. It's one of the projects. The study is, as I started in the first talk, two years long, and it is only received each other year and to a maximum of 15 students at a time. Well, according to my best information, it won't do, despite technical solutions, and the fact that we're using all the knowledge in the system that I find facing to have to do. In the past 18 students were received, but if the number of students is increasing in speech pathology, the number of teachers will also need to be increased, and the concomitant work needs to be done. Then there have been a number of factors that need to be considered. I agree with those who have pointed to the country and the importance of technical solutions and remote solutions in this area. My Ministry has been investigating whether to increase the number of students in speech pathology at the university, thus increasing the number of speech pathologists in Iceland. A strategy for design and education is also to examine this aspect as well as all others in health care, and then the National Council has been assigned to make specific suggestions for the number of speech pathologists missing both in the future and in the future so that if we use all the knowledge concomitantly and at the same time the overall recommendations from this group and the agreements for this service, I have faith that we will do much better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u69	Madam President. There's always no blood in the Blood Bank to save lives in mass science. This is a very important institution, the Blood Bank, and one of the most beautiful human rights struggles we see today is the battle of men whose current rules are not allowed to donate blood, for the privilege of giving blood, mainly for struggling to help other people. You see, if you are a man who has had sexual intercourse with the same sex, according to current rules of the Blood Bank, you must not donate blood under any circumstances. This is not to be investigated further, nor is it to determine whether a person is engaged in any potentially hazardous sex or is to become involved in some deep analysis. No, gay male sex is simply classified as risk behavior in itself. This is not just a matter of struggling to help others. This is also a matter of removing prejudice that is built in these rules because these are rules that do not reflect the system's ability to ensure the safety of blood recipients for the diseases that the system originally imposed in order to protect them. A number of countries have established rules where blood transfusions are not discriminated against by sexual orientation. Italy, e.g. has not discriminated against blood transfusions since the turn of the century, and one country after another is being added to that group. Britain did so in the summer, France, and Greece, now in January. It was a little fun, Madam President, when we were sitting at an open meeting of the Council of America's '78 9th September, and the then health minister announced that she was going to eliminate this prejudice from the Icelandic system. She presented a series of regulations that would make it clear first that blood transfusion is not to be taken indiscriminately. Second, just to define high - risk sex regardless of sexual orientation, and third, those who engage in high - risk sex independent of sexual orientation should not donate blood for four months after they had engaged in sex. A clear, simple change in order to allow for all non - Witness people who engage in safe sex to donate blood and do good things with it. It was September 23rd. Then there was an election two days later. The rules were to be fulfilled in January 1 and have not appeared again. So I'd like to ask, Madam President, wasn't it just a trick before the election, or is there really something going on from the Ministry of this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u70	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for this transfusion request. It will consider reviewing Regulation No. 451/2006 on including it would be prohibited that discrimination should be avoided on the basis of sexual orientation. It's tempting, of course. A senator, to answer here: No, this is not bullshit, and this is beyond the corner. It's not because of them here, but I put myself in the situation quite well in order to trace it to some kind of time line. I find this very interesting, and, of course, it's a fundamental justice case. A senator came in. These are basic human rights. Of course, at the same time, it is important that blood transfusion is not divided at the same time and that the blood transfusion needs to be protected, so it has taken some time. During the weekend, I began to read more about this subject so that I could see the time line on this subject. Of course, this discussion goes back a few years, and of course longer, but I'm going to start my answer in 2018. They appointed my predecessor, the highest. The minister of this country, the Minister of Spígi Svavarsdóttir, a consulting committee on the basis of Article 7. Blood collection, treatment, blood preservation and distribution regulations, No. 451/2006. It is referred to as health authorities, Land Hospitals, and Blood Banks to the Ministry as to what is involved in professional factors and security issues of the blood banking agency. In 2019 the Advisory Commission, in agreement with the Blood Bank, recommended that gay men be given blood transfusions and that any steps in this regard be taken into the arrangement that has been approved. Other parts of the North. To this end, several changes have been required; risk analysiss and primarily the screening of blood through a so-called DNA test or NAT, in English nuclear acid test, a respectable president. In combination with such blood screening, infectious red blood cells must be performed. It is proper to note that platelet and plasma clearances were introduced here in 2012/2014. That changes in the arrangement for apheresis, treatment, preservation, and distribution of blood were published by the government on September 9 of the past. The Scriptures presented a plan to remove sexual practices as a permanent separation from blood units, as well as the process of debridement. A law against discrimination on the basis of nonverbal views, such as sex, sexual orientation, ethnic background, or other similar factors. In one of the 15 references to the Regulation, the Blood Bank stressed the determination to work progressively according to a time - appointed plan and referred to the Commission's proposal on the professional affairs of blood banking services. This was followed by this work of 2018◯2019. I also studied, a respectable president, a comparable timelines, England, the Netherlands and Canada, and a number of interesting material that is fundamental to this. It is important, in view of these proposed changes, to consult the respective professionals, the Land Hospital, the Surgeon and the surgeon's office, as well as to introduce and follow earlier recommendations that the National Institutes of DNA testing, NAT scans of blood that are called, and that the surgeon's office is also involved in the educational and introduction activities of blood transfusions in this country. I've already signed the proposal of this subject, and it came into my account in the days, on the necessary consultation of these key professionals, the induction programme and the recording of the DNA testing scan and the necessary basis for the changes in the Regulation I've traced here. I can tell you right here that I was trying to find out all this information when this could happen, when we could see this policy change, and I just asked because I thought it was unclear. The answer I received at the Ministry was April/Mei.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u71	President. I'd like to thank the captain very much for putting this case on the schedule and the highest. Minister for the answers, too. The then health minister of 2017 asked this authority if these matters were not to be considered in which a direct prohibition against gay blood transfusion was then issued in 2017, which may be more appropriate today as men with men. So I'm glad that I hear that a minister is going to take it seriously, and we can expect this to improve gradually. I'm glad you're here. It's taken a long time. This is an important matter of right and wrong. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson took care of the situation. At the end, I want to add it as the French Health Minister, who now announced during the days that this would be all taken care of, any restrictions on the blood transfusions of men with other men. [[The president calls.]] He said that we simply could no longer justify this inequities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u72	Dignified. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for your inquiry. It is important to draw attention to this matter that has taken far too long and that it is a bit of a waste of deep - seated prejudice. I'm very happy to hear the health minister's answer that it's going to become reality, that it's already taken a chance, and that it's been identified. I'm glad it finally comes true, hopefully this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u73	Madam President. The choice of sexual activity does not affect the possibility of achieving good results by transfusing blood. I must not donate blood, but this is because I am on antihypertensive medicinal products and have been in surgery through narrowing of the artery. These are good health reasons for not to donate blood, but the setting up of rules for administering blood on sexual relations is a time error based on a witch hunt and a panic that has long been eliminated elsewhere in society. Although I'm celebrating it at the highest. In April, a minister will resolve these issues, and it will take only 60 seconds for him to take sexual orientation from the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u74	Madam President. Do you think you're gay? "He sang the poet. I come up here to thank you. A senator for bringing this important matter to the attention. I also come up here to say that I know for sure that the former Minister worked hard to get it through, but the situation is this: Our community is just not better than that we are still punishing the group we really owe to solidarity and support. Now it's a pandemic. We're looking at disease prevention procedures here. Let us remember that during the AIDS epidemic, not only did the health system fail but the whole Icelandic community, the world itself. That this has not come true today is part of deep - seated prejudice. I just need to get it through. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u75	Madam President. I want to use this opportunity, like other members of Parliament, and thank the captain very much for bringing this matter to his attention as well as the Minister for his answer. I rejoice that he continues his career journey. It is a long time ago to correct this fault in Icelandic legislation or rule in the interests of society. As a gay man, I can't give blood, and I've never really understood it, because society has come to a completely different place in all thought and vision. It's a long time ago, and I agree with other members of the council in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u76	Madam President. Like others, I rejoice to eliminate this indiscriminate discrimination between blood transfusions. It's certainly time and according to the '78 Associations and according to all the information, medical and other information we have on this matter. Blood transfusions are likely the most beautiful gift that can be given to another person, and there is great happiness in being able to donate blood and to donate blood. In this community, we have enjoyed that people in general have been very willing to donate blood, and we have never had to pay for blood transfusions. It has been part of the Community covenant that we would if we could do so. What a fine and welcome addition it will be to the large array of blood transfusions when gays and others who have not been given blood so far are able to enter the Blood Bank as well as the rest of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u77	Madam President. I'm happy, like the people here who've spoken, the movement that's come into this case, thanks to the leader, and thanks to the minister. But because we've had a certain indiscretion in the past few months and weeks, and I'd like to talk about it in another area, I'd like to break the top. A minister to follow up on this matter, even pressing that it will be experienced sooner than March or April. I remind you that his predecessor suggested a change in regulations in the beginning of September. There's something that so far has been able to happen immediately, even in our confusion here at the council, that ministers can change regulations. That this particular directive needs a long period of pregnancy, the whole winter, I'm going to put it straight out, worrying me a little bit. I wish that the highest. A minister keeps this matter close to himself and makes sure that the work he believes is finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u78	Madam President. Maybe I'll just keep going like that. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson expressed deep satisfaction that the matter did not appear to have been put to sleep in a ministry, as we feared, but should be carried out by this Regulation. It is noteworthy, though, how much time that would take because I thought a minister would have been introducing it there in September to a Regulation that would have gone through internal consultation between the Ministry and its institutions. But here's the highest. Current health secretary to say that professionals need to be consulted and have some induction plan with them - which I would have thought had run out in the last year. But okay. Now that we've come to this place, I hope we'll look for a better one. It may be appropriate to mention this in the past because the minister mentioned the importance of communicating with professionals, that, of course, it is also important to consult with gay people's interest groups in the context that have not heard much from the Ministry about these matters since the dawns first appeared. At least not after the election. Then, somehow, all telephone lines in the Ministry seem to be extended in this case. Well, what shall I say? Of course, it's fine that it's running out. In the end, though, it is also a very simple matter and it is simply a matter of reevaluation, such as cognition. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir mentioned, an old prejudice in the system. In fact, this does not mean that much more than just a little time to prepare, which I would have thought had ended last summer, and then funding for a better screening tool. It's just a practitioner for the Blood Bank experts to screen blood and then just punch it through. Then there is the other way that could have been gone, which would have been to rely on gays, as if other blood transfusions were trusted, but it seems that there was no good way up in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u79	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for this discussion and agree with every word that has been presented here. This is a fundamental legal matter. I felt somewhat vague about the induction process, which I reassigned to 2018-2019, and I understand the questions here, why it has taken so long, and why this needs to be taken up until spring. I also felt vague and asked when it would be finished, and I heard that it would be in the spring months. Hopefully, it won't be any later than that, according to the time that the induction process has taken. That is in harmony with what I considered on a well - thought - out basis about how this has happened in other nations. It may be possible to do this earlier because it is a part of the educational and presentation work and to record this NT scan. I'll have to ask you what's taking so long because something else is done in this induction process. I think it was a very good step taken by the former health minister by the Board of Ministers, and I can only see that it was a very unbiased profession behind the whole process. It seems to me that it was a good job, and I'm really glad it came to this place. I'd also like to say at the end that I will be proud to sign the changes in the Regulation, but my predecessor in the job, the highest. The health minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir, deserves all thanks for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u80	A respectable president. This is clear in our policy in repair that we want our land to become nothing more than carbon and free of fossil fuels than in the year 2040. A team in this area is banning new registrations on fuel and diesel cars. On the basis of our policy, we say that this is to be done in 2025. Norway, who has been exemplary in these matters, has gone along and I believe that we should be able to do the same, have an ambitious, dramatic tone. The head of Power House has declared that making a decision about how a car to buy affects the entire nation when it comes to Iceland's commitment to climate. The most important part of this is making eco-efficiency a practical option for as many Icelands as possible, to consider the construction of infrastructure, and particularly for transport energy exchange. Today, only a fraction of automobiles in Iceland use only other energy sources than fossil fuels. In fact, most people invest in nerve - related cars that run for electricity, methane, and fossil fuels. There is still a marvelous need for our core infrastructure to push this into our own real options, especially the people living in the country, but today is the natural largest part of the fossil fuel fleet. Sad but true. In fact, we've done well in my opinion, the rate of new registrations that are not using fossil fuels is good and have increased. It is also important to consider that, as I came into the past, the non-survival and non-survival reasons and to encourage the low-paying people to have the same opportunities as others to change anything freely from an unsecable car to eco-friendly. Cars purchased today in 2022 are likely to be on the streets of our next few decades. The sooner we decide to ban the import and registration of cars driven on contaminated fuel, the sooner we can control the fleet that is on the street today. They will all run their course. No one's talking about banning the existence of fuel and oil cars. No one's talking about it. They will run their course, but they are talking about banning the import in 2025. It's a matter of directing markets, but not least taking really big steps toward eco-friendly society. Of course, the minister has a huge job to do, not just to ensure enough electricity and better transport systems for energy exchange. If we really are going to make rapid changes in energy, we need to do more, strengthen the transport system, and also go to the activations that may include. on a frame plan and start the engines right away. We're supposed to have an ambition to take big steps right away. They can be taken in many places, including The question that concerns me is whether a minister will promote the termination of new fuel and diesel trucks in 2025. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u81	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator not only for drawing attention to the case but also to the inquiry. Many countries we compare with have imposed bans on the new registration of fuel and diesel cars within a set number of years. As far as it will be, there are only Norwegians who have set a ban in 2025, whereas many countries have tickets at 2030, 2035, and even 2040. The 2020 climate management programme of the United States of Iceland establishes a commitment to the ban of the new registration of diesels and gasoline - powered cars in this country in 2030. But let's see how we're changing the national vehicle fleet. Based on data on the Office's website, there are a total of 186,405 fuel trucks and 140,855 diesel trucks registered in Iceland, with 15,550 linking trucks, 11,563 electrical cars, 9,341 hybrids, 1,903 metal cars. Reservation in eco-friendly automobiles has increased rapidly over the past few years, striking all records in recent years, a total of 4,496 clean electrical cars and 4,778 contact trucks. Last year, there were just 4,090 diesel cars and 3,477 fuel trucks. A question asked by the captain will determine if the person standing here intends to increase the objective of the government. The brief answer is that we must do better if we are to tighten. My stand is that high goals are important, but they are not enough. We must reach the goals we have set for ourselves. Simply put, it is easy to write down goals, but the task is to reach them. Me and the Icelanders are about to switch energy. This change of energy causes great effort in many areas. It is not in the realm of one minister, a government, or a council, that is a national campaign. Technology is rapid and will help us reach our goals, e.g. when it comes to larger trucks and public transportation, e.g. Flight. It's a pleasure to see the development of electrical planes that will strengthen the international flight. The structure of infrastructure is important, but it is clear that people do not invest in electrical cars without infrastructure. There the emphasis must lie on the next one. Many good things have been done in this regard, but better could be done if necessary. I will strive to speak and will continue to support the building of loading wood. Energy exchange for the inhabitants of the scattered settlements will not succeed if adequate infrastructure is not present. However, it is equally important and even more effective to ensure that allurements and that the tax system is set in a way that consumers become clean cars realistic and clearly superior to vehicles burning fossil fuels. The economic factors, however, will not be overlooked. Clean cars are still today expensive, and the selection of used clean - powered automobiles could be more than it will improve. In turn, the cost of an electric vehicle is much lower than that of other vehicles, making it more practical in general. Therefore, consumers have financial benefits because the building of wood is moving rapidly. This is especially true of the poor - income homes running a car. It is reported in the Department of Economic and Business Committees' memoir from December 3, 2021 to share an eco-friendly vehicle's share at the highest level in the capital area, but much lower in the region. There is evidence to suggest that more paid groups have electrical vehicles. We would not want to create such a community that there is no room for income groups to own a vehicle or to rule out their potential to travel in our rural country. The activities we take on the issue of climate change must not result in unjust exchange for less - metabolic groups. A respectable president. It is three years before 2025 C.E. These years will be a new national campaign to produce energy exchange, further development of infrastructure and induction in order to bring about the needed changes and to ensure needed energy for energy exchange. If the government's current goal is more successful, I will be the first to celebrate it, and then we will be able to revise previous plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u82	Madam President. First, I want to thank you for this great discussion. The problem with the system that has been tailored to energy exchange in Iceland is that it has only been introduced halfway. We've only got the elemental part of the new energy cars, but what is needed to keep a balance on such systems is the whips on the other side. There have been 23.5 billion that have been used to subsidize electrical and link trucks since 2012. In all the natural systems, governments would have introduced progressive carbon costs to settle this, both to ensure that the transition was just and that it would even be practically free of government funds, which would be just a drain for this transition. In this context, Madam President, in response to a financial minister's inquiry, from the previous year, it was found that OECD leads to 60 euros as such a fine balance point for a currency for each ton of disposed CO 2. In Iceland, this number is 30.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u83	Madam President. If the government is serious that Iceland should be independent of fossil fuels in 2040, then the highest. Of course, climate minister giving clear answers to when fuel - and - diesil - will - be registrars will be stopped. In addition, the building of loading stations and infrastructure is required in accordance with that. Sounds like the highest. Minister to be still aimed at quitting a new registration in 2030, as in the government's policy of action on climate change. But it's too late. There is no room for import in all these gas and diesel trucks for the next decade if we are going to achieve some real contraction from road transport. There's no room for all these cars. The billing thing doesn't work. That would likely involve some massive disposal plan or the banning of cars after 2030. I don't know what the government really does. It's just that somehow the problem is being addressed, and it's just a problem that the next governments will take over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u84	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion and say the highest words. Minister when he says he wants to hurry at least not faster than existing goals. Regarding this particular point, the registration of human cars, it will be the most self-explanatory. This will only depend on the development of these larger cars. Whether or not we are here in the Order Work, some years before or later, the results will have little effect on us. So I think it would be wise to approach the matter in the way the minister suggested it. But I'd like to say at the same time that if the goal is to support energy exchange, we must not make the mistakes made here in December where the linking trucks were being adhered to in the way they were done, for it will actually slow down the development of the goal, though it is said to support them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u85	A respectable president. I found the answers of a minister, with all due respect, to be ambitious, at least vague. Let us bear in mind that the fuel trucks that will be exported over the next few years will still remain intact on the streets in 2040, when Iceland is supposed to be completely independent of fossil fuels under the government covenant of the government. They are just a sign that the government did not trust to do what has to be done to reduce emissions. She prefers to turn the problem over to the nearest government, turning the problem over to young people. Young environmentalists gave the Independence Party a GPA before elections. It is just a matter of pondering over these young ones who point us to him and say: "Do something realistic, take a big step right away. These are the young people who inherit the land and our air, but the government is turning the problem over to future generations. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to give a clear answer: Will he take advantage of no further registration of fuel and diesel cars since 2025 or will he just do anything else? And it's totally in rhythm -- is, for example. Senators of the left green who are in this room only agreeing with this policy? I'm just asking. As soon as I'm glad a minister sees a certain positive trend, I want him to be more ambitious. It has been suggested that Norway is one of the countries that have set their course. Well, Norway is at least an ambitious goal in this, a very progressive goal, because this is a problem we have to deal with right now. It's the responsibility of all of us in here today to deal with it, not 2040, but now. Therefore, I would like to encourage my dear friend and minister to take firm action on these matters because I know he can if he really wants, course, and vision.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-29.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. First and second only. Councilmen for the discussion. Of course, taking pride is very important. This government - that was now more powerful in that ambition - introduced his plans here on an international scale, and I have not heard one person say anything other than that they are very ambitious. What I find missing in this discussion is not that one says, "There is no ambition. " It's okay, I'll just take it. But we're just watching it now about the fishery factories we were going to drive with electricity, driving them with oil. The cables are driving with oil. We're going back. I just hope that what's going on in this discussion will work out in the council because it's a serious matter. Reaching those goals is serious. I was reviewing the situation on this little project, i.e. power exchange in cars, because that's not the largest energy exchange project, people cars. We're going to go to the heavy transport. We'll be on the international flight. We're going to join the Navy. We're going to take the international flights and other jobs. I'm just happy that I'm stuck with the material and I'm just saying, "Be more ambitious. I just welcome it. But we must face reality as well. As far as the trucks are concerned, it is also an assignment for us to make sure that these solutions are available to all income groups. We also need to make sure that it is for all the people of the land. I trust that there will be good relations at the moment. Not just talking for goals but making sure we get them, for that is what we are going to do for all and especially for the young. [[Up front.]]
