ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u1	In a letter dated April 6, 2022, the president has requested this, according to the 8th number of 1st. 13th par. Conferences, on the board and board of directors, are reporting on a report by the National Reexamination Committee entitled Mental Health Care, Organization, Costs and Success.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u2	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Do they want a vote for that proposal? They ask for a vote, and they ask for unsupervised inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u3	To answer, financial and economic ministers, university, industrial and innovation ministers, justice ministers and health ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u4	President. There is now a list of buyers in the recent discharge from Iceland Bank. The invitation included a group of investors who were invited to purchase government property at a discount. On February 10, the secretary published a paper on the plans for the bank's sale, including a branch office. are toying goals, sales procedures, and the bank's planned sales process. On March 18, the bank secretary of finance then sent a letter asking her to perform a letter on a letter from Iceland bank, by permission of a president, to agree with the Minister on timing, separation of plans, and sales process to be made. A declared goal of providing a closed group of investors this discount would be to find solid long - term investors as the bank's future owners. A conscious decision was made to provide this discount and to use a closed invitation to attract founders as long - term owners of the bank. A minister whose employer could easily have set rules or frames on how investors should be allowed, but instead, there was a kind of wild West, where five sales companies took an evening to call their favorite investors. The result is an extremely conflicting list of investors, where dozens of individuals are investing for fractions of 1 percent. So I ask the highest. Financial Minister: What changed from the fact that a minister issued a declared goal to find largely suitable long - term investors? Why do we see investors buying fragments of a percentage at the bank at a discount? And why would individuals with the slightest priority get a questionable past from the bank crash to buy a part at the bank's discount?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss it as a matter of course. A senator calls out a discount at the auction, pointing out that there is a sale on over 50 billion shares, equivalent to about 300 days of business in the bank, five times the market in Iceland's annual stock market. The question of that day was: What is the right price for today's sales at a price of 22.5%? That's the question upstairs. There was an answer to it by the head of the market, the huge demand in the export and the answer was that the benchmarks written on law and lived here at the council by members of the Parliament and were fundamentally based on my own criteria against the Bank of the county - these goals all could best be achieved by walking 117. After all, if we had entered the 50 billion shares, the supply gates would, of course, have only led to the collapse of prices in the bank. When we look at comparisons with other examples, we can use Arion's banks in this country or other cases, we can see that the variation from the previous market was very low in this case. It's only about what it's like. A senator calls a discount. In this process, it was clear not that any considered qualified investors were allowed to participate. What's a fit investor? It is an investor who has enough experience and knowledge to sell it to a person without a published statement. All who made themselves available, expressed interest in participating in this campaign, which was official on the part of the Bank Office, and met the requirements of being qualified on the other hand, and were prepared to pay the price finally proposed by the Bank Management Board, and I agreed, they were allowed to participate. No handshakes. It was an open invitation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u6	President. A discount is for big investors, to attract high - risk investments, not for drugs and health to buy bank or financial secretary's father. At the first offer of the bank, the state fund lost 30 billion. The second assignment failed to find qualified prospective owners, but it was successful to sell a share in the bank with a number of people with a very questionable past from the bank collapse. Giving this experience, why on earth should the council permit it. Ministers to continue to sell this bank or to split over their heads from a government fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u7	A respectable president. We've worked hard to ensure transparency in all of this treatment. Hence, this communication with the council and that was why it included the matter. I strongly stressed it, if the law didn't interfere, to publish a list of those who received the distribution in this invitation. That's what the rules were. I'd like to draw attention to it because of what happened. A senator has opinions about the individual buyers, and he deems it difficult to take a property share in a financial firm, that the law states that if the individual or the attorney wants to use an active object, as legally called, above 10%, they have to go through a special needle eye. It's not relevant for small property. There are other rules. I'm gonna say this about the rest of the day. Because of the criticism presented, I think that it is by far best to ensure that there is nothing in the shadows and that there is only a good deal of work being done here that we have recently been able to get a Government Reunion to take out the campaign and go over it before the council in the way the law and orders were carried out on with this campaign. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think, considering what I know, it's going to be a good thing for all the work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u8	Mr. President. I have often criticized the methods taken by this government, and in fact by its predecessor, I have chosen to go and process the enormous amounts of property that were stored in the value of the banks taken by the State, Afroni banks and Iceland banks. Arion bank was returned, as it were, to the hedge fund but Icelander sold largely, but without the government's use of the opportunity to make the basic changes needed to the financial system in Iceland, making it work better for companies and especially for the public in the country. This would be a unique opportunity to reevaluate the financial system and to build a system that works better, it has not been used to do so. We now see that there have been some questions about the privatization process of Iceland banking. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it possible, in his opinion, to change the course in terms of the remainder of the State's ownership of this bank and go to form a way of giving all Icelanders equal shares in the bank? This would mean that a family of four would receive something that would be worth more than a million dollars and that the public would have access to the financial system. This does not mean that these assets are lost, returned directly to the rightful owners, the public in Iceland. Is there an option in the light of experience, in the highest estimate? Minister, do you think of such ways?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u9	A respectable president. I've been asking myself, "What's wrong? A senator is exactly going when he speaks of debating in the financial system and making it more useful to serve the needs of the common people. But we've been rewriting all the rules about the banks, and that's different. We have followed a European example and have brought the European legislation into harmony with it. But here's a question about whether I think it's possible to go somewhere else. I've already said so, and we talked about it for this tender tender tender that I think it's a good idea and we should keep it open to go back to general tenders. But giving the Icelanders a direct ownership share in the bank is something I've been talking about for a long time. I haven't come together with any of the members of the council or other members of the council to implement it, and I've been quite satisfied with the fact that we're going this way, and we're going to get rid of the government, get a good price on the bank, which has been a great success. It's an estate over which the state funds received without charge, 95% shares in the bank. We have now made up more than 270 billion worth of money and have already sold for 100 billion, received 72 billion in interest, and owned from a property share, are still the biggest owner to the bank, with 42.5% worth more than 100 billion. In view of how much the bank's value has risen in the hands of the government, although only from the general auction when the bank was measured at around 150 billion, but now more than 250 billion, I feel that it would be a good idea if we were to employ a section of the benefit of the bank's increase in market value directly to Iceland. But we need to discuss it better, and it is not over in the process of sales that has already been approved here by the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u10	Mr. President. I find this to be a lot of news. I knew there were differences within the government on all possible matters, but I didn't know that there was anything at all. A financial minister would have had trouble getting men to accept this idea and campaign of the Central Party to pass an object in Iceland bank directly to the public in the country. So I'm fine with the answer and I'm not coming to the top. Minister for any further trouble with his members in the government. I hope he is simply able to convince it of the value of this idea, this policy, and therefore have no further questions for the highest. Minister for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u11	A respectable president. Yes, there are cases of harmony in the course of the Independence Party and the Central Party. There may be one example. I remember talking about this at the Independence Party meeting at the time, and I've been talking about this before the election, and then maybe I didn't make it an ultimatum about the government that we're going this way, but we haven't closed the final conversation about the sales process. Yet, there is no record of any authority available here in the council, by law, to complete the sale of the bank. If we were to do that, I would say that there would be special discussions here at the council, and there might be some opinion of the matter, especially, how much of the rest of it would be in this way. But it has been concluded, as per the Bank Office's report, that we would perhaps take a more traditional route, skim it through the market, go to general or other known routes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u12	A respectable president. A government government that can't even handle bank sales, should we be surprised that it can't handle the health system? Iceland's health system is in total paralysis. Nurses at the National Hospital emergency department do not feel that they are responsible for the safety of patients who are ridiculous, and nurses also feel that they cannot do their job the way they are expected in conditions at the emergency department of the Land Hospital. They cannot ensure the safety of patients and of any individual staff in the available environment. The number of stable nurses has decreased by ten and for the lack of ten positions in emergency departments. The situation is extremely serious, dangerous for patients and staff. To witness the terrible birth of 40 years ago and to read that nothing has changed today is shocking and completely unacceptable for women who are giving birth and their children in that condition. Waiting lists are extending and increasing, and when people finally have an operation, they end up on a waiting list - to get where? For physical therapy. The third time I'm coming up, I'm asking the highest. Health Minister: What will he do about the emergency unit and the hospital, and when will he negotiate with a physical therapist? Is it acceptable to tell someone who has waited a year or longer for an operation - he will be given the operation, but he will be on a waiting list for physical therapy. When he receives physical therapy, he lands in the crazy conditions that so many people have recently experienced, pointing out that they cannot afford it because today they have to pay up to 20,000 bucks an extra month for physical therapy that has been slided out of the system. Then this government comes and sanctifies itself because it's free of charge in the system. But they have brought a certain price from one place to another. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister: What should I say to people who cannot afford these things? [[The president calls.]] Should I tell them when they can't get to physical therapists: Go to the emergency room? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u13	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for the questions. He put it in a wide range of contexts and crystals on that project and the problem, we can call, which we are dealing with in a health - care environment, and I do quite that. The missions are gone. A lot of what happened. A senator entered here on the safety of patients. There's been a lot of discussion and, of course, should always be discussed, we want to secure a security culture here and be careful of the safety of patients who are the heart of our system. To improve the process and work - and now it is by the surgeon's office to consider the serious cases - such a talk is of good quality. What for? To prevent this from happening. Hv. There are reports on an international comparison, and I want to draw attention to the fact that when it comes to birth, birth service, baby protection, and mother protection, we are very early in our discussion. It is where we are very long, and we must not forget our good deeds. All right, here's the deal. We can be happy here that we have made arrangements at the five - year - old nursing home, which is a turning point. It's part of this big picture of the graduation problem. A senator came on and regularly appeared to us in the emergency department and has been doing all too long, when the emergency room turns into a ward. It also turns to security, and I take full responsibility for it. [[The president calls.]] We're looking for solutions every day of it. [[The president calls.]] But I have to come up with more contracts in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u14	A respectable president. These were expensive answers, for the facts speak for themselves. One in every 10 people who enter the hospital is at some risk. I ask myself, " What has been done in the last few years of this government? ' The Prefect of Health Ministers had the amazing task of refusing to negotiate with physical therapists and specialists. I ask myself, " Who's in charge? ' Is it Iceland's health insurance that's gonna stop this? Isn't the Minister in charge? Why isn't it written? And how can you tell a physical therapist that they are not getting the same amount of pay they have received but that they should accept only a decrease in salary? Is that what's on the beach? I don't understand how, at the same time as we can sell banks with up to 30 billion discounts, we can't even make sure people are not in danger in a hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u15	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator before the opportunity to review the many assignments we are dealing with, and he just makes it very clear. I've said it here and I'd like to say, more often every day, that the safety of patients, the security culture, as well as the staff in this most intimate relationship, with this delicate service, is probably the most precious thing we have in our health care. That's what we always have to work on, and that's why we need to make things stronger, etc. A very good report was published in 2015, which includes the January 2015 issue of Awake! at the staff's trial status. There are very practical suggestions, and I encourage everyone to read that report. She's very good. I appointed a working group long ago to pick up a few things and work on these matters. As for the contracts, I've worked hard on it - because if we're going to deal with all that's going to happen. A senator goes over here, we'll have to improve the interaction and cooperation in the system, use the specialists, use the physical therapists for rehabilitation, which is a large part of the prevention. [[The president calls.]] I'm working hard to get along with these fine professions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u16	A respectable president. Now financial ministers need to exercise political leadership in this matter. The country has lost faith in the sales process in Iceland Bank. You need to get properly involved in this process. Why in the world did the people get free cards to sell public property on a fortune - teller's discount, salesmen paying skyspants for helping foreign fortune - tellers to get a shot at government property? It is not clear how buyers were selected and, in all respects, incomprehensible how they can be compatible with a vision of the confidence and credibility of the banking system. It's like the highest. Secretary of finance is on autopilot. We're here discussing a financial program, which is nothing more than the accounting of government officials at the Ministry. No political leadership. The sale of government property is out of control. If the highest. A minister is so unconcerned about all of this, about his role and responsibility, and cannot take the political lead in this matter, then he should consider letting someone else in. The nation's one highest office cannot be handled halfheartedly. Here is a lack of humility toward the common people. A ruler has been involved in this process. The minister of finance must draw responsibility to those responsible for the corruption in this trade process. The country needs to know what was going on between Ministers, Bank County, and sales consultants. I repeat, if ever. A minister can't take the lead in this case, so he doesn't have any business anymore in politics. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: What will he do? Who will be responsible in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u17	A respectable president. I have made it clear today that there is nothing more we want, we who have made the decision to start this trade process and I, who gave it to the Bank Office, than that all the questions are answered. That's why we've been having discussions at the council. Congress was included. Many of the questions now come to my attention in view of how open the process was, how openly it was discussed here. Hv. A senator has, for example, an e.g. Asking: Why wasn't there some minimum threshold for the amount of money to be involved in the invitation? I ask them, " If it was so important, why did it not come up in all this conversation that we've had in the past few months? ' And why is the person bringing 5 million less important to the demand gate than the one bringing 50 or 500 or 5,000? Why should we make that distinction? And you can't see that if we don't eliminate the private investors, we're pulling out the overall demand that will obviously affect the price. We are left with a banking system, which would then be in place and possibly at the end solely owned by pension funds, which, again, are the biggest owners of all companies of a competitive market in Iceland and the biggest customers in the bank, and that's something we don't want. Last year the U.S. Contestance Commission called attention to the need for us to have a competitive view. Hv. A senator calls after I take the initiative in this discussion. I have done so here today by saying: "I will take the initiative to request that a government tour be carried out on the job of the invitation, in the light of the laws and regulations, the party that has been behind me, and I have full faith that it will be successful. So let us not forget the overall result, which is truly wonderful, in view of the fact that we have managed to sell over 100 billion in the bank, have a change in ownership, many long-term investors, etc. to a systematicly important bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u18	A respectable president. It is, in fact, unbelievable to listen to this follow - up. Open process. It was deliberately shut down, and the public did not allow it because the people thought it was a means of giving a certain source of strong backlands, strong financial abilities, credibility, access to the bank. Why wasn't somebody 5 billion? K. Investments allowed in? There are a lot of people in Icelandic society that has 5 billion. K. And can buy in market prices, as did all the rest of the land. It's about where you're giving money. High above all, the main evidence for this process of sales was to reduce the field income in this process, that hundreds of people would not need to be called to sell government property. Now it turns out that this process has cost 700 million. At a point, 700 million. K. to allow small investors with a very special history of banking. There are so many postaming explanations in this case that it doesn't reach any direction. I can't see that a minister is taking the lead in this case. [[The president calls.]] He's gonna go ahead in some of his explanations. There's nothing to say here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u19	A respectable president. I'm just suggesting to the local homes that there are some following explanations. It's much more the problem. A senator is here with metaphysics. Why wasn't this so queer when the matter was in an open process and talked to the council, and they sent me their written opinion of what had been committed by the Bank Department? I'm going to ask some men to think about something here. We've set up a legal frame around the sale of financial assets that guarantees an arm length policy. I hear here at the conference hall and elsewhere the smell of pleas for political intervention. You should have excluded this and the other one. You should have said, "This one's not qualified." However, qualified investors in this invitation were those who could be invited to participate without making an invitation. That is the answer. A senator knows this very well. It would have called for an invitation to let the public in. We did it in an open conversation here, going this way, which is a known method for a registered company. People's eyes are getting dusted by saying that we could have finished this process by inviting anyone. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then we would have gone a different way. We discussed this at the council, and we decided to do something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u20	A respectable president. I mentioned it here yesterday that when a bank is sold in possession of a nation damaged by a whole bank crash, trust is a absolute password. Everyone has agreed that the goal is solid and healthy property. This has been repeated over and over. During the last few days, there have been serious doubts about trust because the Bank Office felt that the bank permits its buyers to rule, that the rule of order was so that a burned people selling their bank would just not deal with who was buying it. The chairman of the Bank Office followed this up in an interview and said that this might be considered at the next auction if you thought it was important to know who bought what. I'm going to repeat the words of the Bank Office on this sale to all of our property in a sealed tender auction: if you think it's important to know who bought what. How could this view be evident in the bank of the county after a closed outing? Why did the government not arrange for the sale in preparation so that when the Bank Board handles its buyers, it is inextricably condition that the nation is allowed to know about all the buyers? The financial agency published the list yesterday, which was very good, but unfortunately it became so that the publication of the list in the name of transparency, in order to increase confidence, led to the loss of confidence. How in the world do people come to the conclusion that they trust in the financial system and continue to sell the financial institutions when a good part of the handmade buyers is characters and players from the bank collapse? Should we be filled with confidence in healthy assets when there are cases of government - tested merchants or even court cases? Is peace and trust because of the fact that large builders, who are struggling hard and determined not to pay fair and normal price for catching the fish of which they have, are invited and gratefully accept now to purchase the nation's property, nearly 2 billion, by discount? [[The president calls.]] Can we still talk about sound and healthy ownership after this sequence of events? [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u21	A respectable president. The decision to register the bank in a stock exchange, to place it in public markets, is to make a conscious decision to withdraw your property and accept that it can develop in various ways after registration is completed. In the invitation, it was important to have general transparent rules that ensured that one thing would pass over everyone. Is the possession of Iceland Bank trust and healthy? Unquestionably, the state with 42.5% holdings, pension funds, large international and domestic long-term investments next to, a large number of Icelandic public and other private investors with a fraction of the property. This is exactly what is desirable, healthy, and desirable. What we would have wanted. Then you can play the game here, going to pick out individual parties, as if you were expected by a Recontinent to happen. It's not supposed to be a developer, we're against producers, for Christ's sake, don't let them invest in financial companies. Let's just bear in mind here the general rule, which is: When you want to take an active ownership share in a financial enterprise, which says 10% or more, you have to go through the FEC's needleeye. Those with small parts or up to 10% do not have to meet the specific criteria. They're like all other Icelanders, provided they're qualified for this auction or if they want to buy on the market, they can. A man sitting in jail can buy shares. Or maybe he wants to have a good time. A senator has something different?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u22	A respectable president. A reputation arises in all reflections about the leading of this sale. Can't we discuss our reputation? Is it really that way? Should it not be evaluated, should we not wonder about it, when we're talking about trust and health, healthy ownership of a closed mission where men are authorized, what reputation is and who's buying it? The other to the highest. The secretary of finance then came into the post office, where no sale of the State's property is granted in such a bid. They all see in their hands that there's a big difference between the two. Then come these phrases mentioned here over and over again to destroy matters. They don't talk about discounts. The head of the Bank County is talking about abnormalities. It is a variation, not a discount, as the result of selling property to the nation is not the same. Why don't we talk about reputation? Should we not discuss health and healthy ownership? Why don't we make a distinction between a closed outlet holding hands and what happens after that? That's where the state's let go. It won't let go of itself at the tenders. This explanation. The secretary of finance, which appears after the publication of this non-employment list - where even the manager of the Filter Process is allowed to buy more than a million with a variation or discount. Why don't we ask questions about this? Why don't we talk about this as normal or unnatural? Is that against the law?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u23	A respectable president. I'm sure that's what you're talking about. Who's stopping the discussion? Whatever it is. A senator will fail the test when he says "persuaded. " It's because he's failing his test, and everything he says after that, it's not significant because there was no handling here. What was decided to do was to say: There are some investors who can participate. A sale is at hand right now. All who offered the opportunity to include in general rules, no handler, only those who offered an offer, and they had to meet prices and to be suitable investors. So where's the handle, huh? Senator? Anyone who claims this is trying to make this suspicious, and that's why I'm saying: It's the best thing to say that a public review will take over the whole project, answer questions like that. whether or not we have been guilty of hand-selecting with the implementation of this individual investors. [[Up front.]] Perhaps it would be nice, too, for the National Reexamination to answer to the question, Is the European Commission a good person enough to be involved like other Icelanders? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In other words, he is on the front list of people who could not be included.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u24	Mr. President. As a result of this discussion, it is the highest. Secretary of finance failing the test. You see, the people need trust. We need to be able to trust our officials, and we need to be able to trust our banks. When selling national property with a fine discount for selected investors, the process must simply be taken over by doubt. These chosen investors need to be trusted with the bank, they need a career, and they need a reputation that creates confidence. This was so well - known to us in the leading of the collapse. It is not anyone who can, on, or who intends to drive a bank long - term. When the art was published last night, your hands fell out and you thought about Groundhog Day without fail. V.E.G. A minister needs to appreciate much more, and we need much better answers as to why those who bought are being bought.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u25	A respectable president. What a surprise it is to hear exhilarating, gas lighting, and the confusion that comes from the secretary of finance on the sale! It's fine for you to say that you're going to call for an assessment, but I don't think that's enough. In view of the fact that the council gives this minister its commission to work in our behalf and to sell this bank as he does, in view of the fact that the council plays a role in keeping with this minister, I believe it is right for the council to serve a committee of inquiry, an independent and independent research committee, which reviews these personal interests in all detail. This will be done by specialists who have the full potential and the trust to do this work on behalf of the council. I'll make this my suggestion. I suggest that the board and board of directors see how this is best handled as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u26	V.E.G. President. I'll come up here and even. as president of the dog. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. I just don't see that it's the best idea ever. The Secretary of Economics and Economics has requested that the National Reconnaissance have something to do with this matter. We're not talking about financial reexamination, we're not talking about administrative matters, we're not talking about the implementation of laws or financing of established funds, we're talking about personal interest, tenders, sales of state property. That's why I support it. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir said here, that we set up this matter by a special committee of inquiry and have all the legal authority that the Congress must have to get to the bottom of the matter. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u27	A respectable president. I agree with what has been done here, and I ask myself, " Has the short-term and long-term memory of the government completely disappeared? ' I ask: Where do the money come from from by these former depositors to buy? Torts, Cayman, or maybe they're getting a ball loan? We need the answer. After all that happened in the collapse of the bank, how can we ever allow things to go this way? It's a disgrace to us. This government can't sell one bank short. You know, sometimes you get a big mouth-stop. When a man stood out here in the East protesting and protesting and protested after the collapse of the bank, a man believed we'd learn something, but we'll see here that we didn't learn anything. We need to know exactly how this sale went about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u28	President. I agree with a request for a serious investigation on this matter, for we cannot go through everything we've been through as a community, but we don't seem to learn anything from what has been going on. If you just look at the list of the crash merchants of this bank right now; Jón Ásgeir Jóhannesson, the largest owner in Glitto for the financial collapse, Þorsteinn Már, the head of the Baldursson and the director of Glitnis, the Sveinsson of Benedikt, the father of Bjarni Ben. who saved 500 million people from their throats before they crashed. We're making the same mistake over and over. We'll have to investigate this, and I'll call for this investigation. I would also like to point out that the responsibility of a financial minister in all of this is that he could have asked that it be written into the auction for additional instructions on what sort of investment to go to buy in this bank. But that was not done, and this is the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u29	A respectable president. I support what has been presented on this matter. It's not just some company. They are speaking down to the public and to the United States by testifying that these are just healthy and normal trades, credibility, trust. What happened to the White Book of the Future View for the Bank System? It's gone back and forth. First, cost - reduction was reported. So it was said, and even referred to the bank manager, who said that distribution of holdings was not the prerequisite part of the invitation. There are 16,000 people involved. Little people got a discount on something they could buy at the market like everyone else. Foreign merchants who sold themselves after a few days of the last discharge were reassigned. There is no way to argue that national property is here. What was the message from the secretary of finance to the Bank County? Was there just an open source when it came to the receipts? They need to investigate why they were paying 700 million dollars. K. of tax in unpublished check for sales advisers helping non-employed sources to a position of public interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u30	A respectable president. I'm just as stunned as I am. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir of the procedure and of the work being done here. I'm on a budget committee with her, and actually a financial and business committee too, and I've never heard that it was inviting people to buy millions. Never. There was always talk of big investments that could be the grieving part of the bank's future activities. All the time. So it is coming back to people who, in good faith, have agreed to make such a move. Well, obviously the bank management isn't what they're doing. It's just a matter of time. Those who bought one million through a closed invitation had a taste for this million overnight, as did the rest of us in our bank account in one year. [[The president calls.]] That's what's being done to the public here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u31	A respectable president. I can't say I can't say no one to handle? It was an open invitation, said secretary of finance. There's a minister down there for the Council to mislead the Council. We don't have to look beyond the Bank County itself, just in her memo. Here's a discussion about the way the minister chose to go: ▪ [System] arrangement is not fully in the spirit of principle of law No. 155/2012, around the opening phase and transparency. In this way, certain investors enjoy better rights than others, as the common people cannot have a direct share and thus do not ensure total equality. That's what Bank Management says. But here comes the highest. Secretary of finance, just selling money to his father, having sold money to his business associates from the outlets of public property, having just sold the people of economic crime, recently sold the defendant into the huge payoff business of public property, telling us that black is white and white is black and this is all we are supposed to do is sit on. Does he think we're all assholes? Or does he just know he's well-caused by the senators of the forward party, the left green, and, of course, the Independence Party, who let him get away with this? A respectable president. The General Assembly deserves better, and the public deserves better. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with the proposal that has been presented here to investigate this matter. In this room, we need a clear answer to why these funds and those individuals were allowed to buy a part of the discount at the bank in a closed outlet. Why these people? Indeed, some of them have experience with banking, as is true of the public's painful memories. How was that experience appreciated? President. My experience is that when something looks like corruption that smells like corruption, it is most likely to be corruption.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u33	A respectable president. I need to respond to the highest words. Secretary of finance that there's a list of restorations, that we've got some list of who's going to buy or not. We don't have a list, nobody's talking about something like that. On the other hand, we are referring to words that have been referred to in the process of selling many times; it is trust, trust of the public; it is spoken of as reputation; it is a discount or variation; and all of this restricts us to the position that we must, of course, evaluate those who buy when the list is finally published after much restitutation, of course. That's just what we're talking about. It is, of course, as we have seen, and we must get to the point, that there was talk of selling big things to parties in the bank. The fact that quite a number of people are buying for a million, two, three, four, five, does not rhyme with the image drawn to the leading of the sale. This, of course, results in a loss of discussion over the fact that it was normal and that asking questions is just unnatural, and then you must have some list and names of those who cannot buy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're simply trying on this list to the criteria given at the beginning of the sale, its leading, and now the follow-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u34	President. I'm not giving anything too much to take the initiative. Secretary of finance calling for some report. The last time a secretary of finance did that, she was assigned to a chair, a report on the property of Icelanders in nationalities. I think we need to do a little better than they do. I come here because I don't think the council is being treated well in this process. A minister said that they consulted with the council. I think it's a hell of a bunch of shit. It was simply a box check. The Senate's minimum approach to this matter was so minimal that the Commission demanded the decision as soon as possible. When signs appeared from a budget, the greater part, the minority would have only a few hours to pay back their opinion, a few hours. The message was, in fact, when it all came down to saying it doesn't matter what the council said, it had been decided, it should be done regardless of what the Senate said. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is how the Constitution of Congress is conducted according to the European Commission of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u35	A respectable president. I suggest that a committee be appointed to review all comments at the highest level. Secretary of finance in leading this campaign because we just don't have time to put together what was said and what is being said below. Now it is said that the responsibilities to the budget committee are to be settled, so to speak. In this process, a legal committee was obliged to set the minimum. What kind of responsibility is that? V.E.G. A minister cannot even take the lead in this matter, and he will house her with the financial committee. It's amazing what Bank County does to this case. I urge everyone in here to listen to an interview with the Board of Directors and Directors of the Bankistolies yesterday and the way they talk about public property, that people have been encouraged to call as many people as possible to maximise their terms, tax dollars. In the media, the secretary of finance repeatedly stated that it is not the highest price that counts, that is, the nature of the investors. Is this a child lying? There is no stone on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u36	Mr. President. Secretary of finance is saying that it is abnormal that there is a list of desirable buyers of important financial companies. It is not normal for the buyer's reputation to be appreciated and, for example, to be seated. Not upstairs with the old owners of Glitnis and Buy in a new shareholder? Their reputation is that ten years ago, a bank with which they went to such lengths as to cover so many non-employers were stuck with tens of millions of unmade demands. Now they just get to buy banks at discounts. It's probably the same people who got 20% off when they brought a billion euros through the Sea Bank investment route. It is now a study that was stopped in the management and monitoring committee of the current management teams during the last term. There is something to consider in this context. But we naturally know that there can always be a discount for the people of this government. There's no lesson in that. The lesson may be that when the Independence Party is private, it just needs to be simultaneously, sort of, before the process starts, to initiate a research committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It just seems like a rule, Mr. President. The party can't afford a private bank without messing it up. [[The president calls.]] The other solution was not to allow him to power, but we, who have expressed ourselves here today, are innocent of the good news.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u37	A respectable president. In the report from the highest. Secretary of finance, Article 6.5, speaks of the ability of active investors. It is set up what they must meet, and a minister referred to it earlier. And you ask about the skills of those who are not called active, which are below 10%. What conditions did they have to meet? Did they call the prisoner whom the minister mentioned earlier? Was he allowed to enter this closed invitation, or did he just have to buy at the market? He now only talks about qualified investors. Who were qualified investors who were selected for this in addition to active investors? I can't figure it out. Who was qualified in this case? I'm just racist. There's one thing today and another tomorrow. All I can see is that this government is just showing the public its bottom, and it's done on the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u38	A respectable president. I read a story about a $12 billion pension fund but was denied, only purchased for 3 on the March 117 but wanted to buy 124. I thought it was just bullshit. I thought it was a false story. Then I heard a person offered the invitation, too. Now I'm asking myself, "Is that bullshit? Was that a false story? Given these buyers and how this process was carried out, I don't think so at all. It says that the council is being maligned. The public is being treated badly, too, this entire large group of people who lost their apartments in the collapse. These people are really screwed up. Do you think these people are going to sit at home right now and let it pass? I don't know what the government is doing, but I'm afraid she's still asking for one more protest here in the East. I'm afraid so. I hope not. I hope the government will take this case and look at it down and correct it if possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u39	A respectable president. I think it's such a creepy word to the highest degree. Secretary of finance that he speaks of a list of restorations in connection with criticism and questions about how this occurred. It reflects that I think, the imagination of men who live in the handmade and chosen society, that the question always comes from a different source. And now it is the opposition to teach what is responsible. Secretary of finance. The process was to serve the interests of the public in the country. There was talk of big investors, professional investors, a career for the public in the country. Up to 10, it's at the highest. Secretary of finance today, 10.5 even. Why, then, is it that when the prerogatives appear to the public, the nation is awake in a shock when the art is ahead? Why is this a response? All of this is somehow quite remarkable; to post the film and then talk about the government's failure to perform its function.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u40	Mr. President. There's a lot of words here, some large, they've been let down. Many feel that it is their privilege to make judgments. I'm not gonna decide. If this is the case so that the U.S. Senate believes that it is not sufficient for the State Accounting, a office under the Council, to be responsible and commissioned by the Council to take over this sale, but rather the need to appoint a special research committee to review the trade process in this process, I will support it. It's just perfectly normal because there's nothing I'm afraid of in such a study. Nothing. I'm going to remind the World Congress that the information here is causing the most confusion and has been made public because of the highest level. The minister of finance moved them forward despite the opposition or counsel of the bank office that cared for and is responsible for this commission. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Investigated in the Bank Office...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u41	A respectable president. A greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee agreed that this offer would be gone, including Based on the fact that during the early phase of the sales process, the distribution of possession had already been successful. The tip from a minister and others was that it was time for the big, fat investments, long-term investors, founded investors. And then these people all face us here in their backpacks. There's been a lot of financial talk about arm lengths, like the Bank Office is somehow completely independent and independent of an institution. But I would like to quote only a fine 2013 article by the president of the Bank County, by permission of the President: ▪ I have no doubt that when the nation assigns a role to Bjarni Benediktsson, he serves their interests with honesty and faithfulness. Now, it is important that the independents show a solidarity bak the Bears and the leadership of the party. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] The country needs to think that the Independence Party will be strong in the election during springtime. That's what the chairman of Bank County says. These are the arms lengths of the Independence Party. It's a joke. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u42	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson did well over what seemed to be the point of this second sale. But now, in this discussion, it has been observed that foreign people who bought the first sale and sold themselves out immediately, who were allowed to buy and that there were small or smaller persons, who may not now have a perfectly good career to show in banking, there are no explanations of why they were chosen again, and so small people who could as well have bought on the market but were allowed to buy now. The certificate published for this sale comes from the secretary of finance and members of the Independence Party. I'm just calling for all the movers and the left greens that are here in the side halls and even in the hall, what do you say? How do you feel that you have succeeded and support continued legal guardianship in this case? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u43	President. The context here is important. It's like what's wrong. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson said that it was distributed property, which was the reason in the first commission, to find the right price. It sold much more, 10% more in the bank than originally expected, at a much lower price than it turned out to be after all. 60% off rate, 30 billion given to the public. It's not the buyer's fault, it's the secretary of finance. In view of the warnings given to the council for the sale, a minister could say: "No, this is clearly a wrong price. We need to update it. There, 30 billion were lost. This time, big investors were to be found. A closed biding process is designed to find big investors, to attract them to the risk of buying such a bank with the exact discount. That wasn't done on the basis of any premium. [[The president calls.]] The speaker warned about this, saying that it was better to go back to the same procedure and was done first because the price is at least level. [[The president calls.]] That's the situation we're in today. [[The president calls.]] There was ignored, at least the reviews of experts we received, and only the procedure as the minister decided. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what happened. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson that it would be most interesting to hear everything about what other members of the government, other than Ministers, and worse. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, found in this sale. I think they owe the public an excellent explanation into society. Perhaps their theme could be what was said a few years ago for another reason. It is obvious, and it should be evident, that there is no patience in Icelandic society that someone is being treated with valuables. And in this case, it is a very strong human experience that few chosen to live as special. This is what Bjarni Benediktsson said when a portion was being sold in the Shimanium. These are words that are very relevant today. When it comes to the fall of major decisions, the General has a surveillance role. It is for us to determine whether what was said, what was promised, what was sold to the common people in this trade, has been successful. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry about that. It just happened yesterday when the art was revealed that there were other things and nothing to do with what was set up, nothing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u45	A respectable president. When the only member of the council who expresses himself here in the hall on this matter says that he is not going to stand here and pass judgment, he is not going to stand here and ask any questions, I say, "Here's an indoor record falling into corruption. " It is the job of the Parliament to ask questions on specific grounds, but the results reflect everything else. It's special, and maybe it's just a sign that there's another week in the company at the management team, if you watch the program. Senators in the administration team do not express themselves at all. They speak so little here in this hall that when we proselytize in the field, they experience it as a matter of speech. It's like they think it's forbidden to step up here in the pit to speak to their ideas and ideals. Step forward, my brothers and sisters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u46	President. A member of the Independence Party then came up here and said that he was supporting this idea of a research committee, which is just a good case. However, the members of the other administrations have become the only people who seem to be unreceptive or who have at least failed to express themselves on this. If they were on our side, we could come up with a pact proposal tomorrow. We can do the job now, make that decision, get together, the council, to present a pact proposal to investigate this. So I urge members of Parliament or members of the other members of the administrations to come up here and let us know if they're supporting this idea and if we can get started with Congress right away, so we don't go into the Easter Day with this matter, hanging over us and all the questions in the community, but we're going to the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u47	V.E.G. President. I am delighted and obliged to come here as chairman of the left movement as a member of the council, since this has not only been called but also to say that it has already happened, both in the words of prime minister and financial minister himself, that it needs to be completely beneficial and clear. If there's an idea at the top. Ministers on the opinion of the State Accounting on this matter is not enough, I take my heart to the idea of setting up a special investigation on the matter, just my mind. It is in everyone's best interest that this matter is revealed if there is any doubt about the process, so I take my heart into it, to make it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u48	A respectable president. Here are some speculations about the silence of government officials. They certainly are not. I come up here as a senator, but also as president of the Economic and Business Committee. I understand the speculation of people here about sales in Iceland Bank. I also understand very well the speculations of people in the community because of this sale. This is normal, and it should be that way. It should be a critical thought when selling property, especially public property and government property. Last year, sales started in Iceland Bank, and she succeeded when 35% of property was sold for over 55 billion. There were also four cornerstone investors chosen to become shareholders in the bank. This must be an indication that people have been interested in sharing in that investment. [[The president calls.]] It is of utmost importance, and as a result, property in this bank would become diverse and successful. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u49	A respectable president. I always find it interesting when I'm lying on my neck for not talking enough. It's usually that I talk too much. But in this discussion, I'm sure you'll find yourself here. I understand, when handling a task as important as selling banks, that people try to make sure that such a process is totally above doubt. The situation may well be, though, that we want to have Our State's Accounting or after the events of the council to take a closer look at this process. We've got a presentation on the case. I think, as a whole, it's worked really well and to eliminate any suspicions, I probably feel that I'm going to go into one of those things right here within the council and support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u50	A respectable president. I welcome the solidarity I sense as to the fact that the council is in charge of a research committee. I would like to reiterate, as a result of previous investigational experience, a request that this be a three-man investigational committee capable of handling all the roles that a three-man committee can perform. No one in charge of this, I want to make it perfectly clear. I'd also like to, in view of previous experience trying to establish a research committee on Iceland's Investigation Guidelines, warn and say that all decreases in the progress of the Commission will be read as intentional delays in the investigation. The talk on formalistic factors will be all considered, and I don't know what I've experienced in trying to establish a research committee on Iceland's World International Investigation, as a premium to prevent an investigation. I'm happy for the feeling I hear, but I need to see the work talking before, and I really believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u51	Mr. President. We could have come here at the beginning of this conference and described their will to support the idea of the Ævarsdóttir Edvarsdóttir's idea that I've come here first with the suggestion to set up a research committee on this private interest in Iceland. Now, much later, we have received a positive response from the representatives of all the classes here in the hall, so that I suggest, in particular, I wind up to the President's conference board, that the president following the discussion of a financial program today, interrupts this meeting to provide either a board of administrations and monitoring committees or members of Congress to win a Senate hearing proposal for an investigational committee to examine the private development of the Bank of Iceland, the latter, so that it can be seen by the day in the transfer of all classes at the General Assembly today and we can discuss it at this morning. Then we can go on Easter break. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u52	V.E.G. President. Just so we're clear on what we're doing here. We're asking for an investigation report, and it needs to be made up of. I strongly support it and all that has been said here to speed up the progress of that matter and to rejoice that the officials came up here to support it. I just want to be the chairman of the Commission and Commission committee, also restate on the fact that the Committee accepts the reports of Government Review, and once specific investigation is mentioned, the case is in operation at the council. It sounds to me that the channel will be the one we're going to put into, and I'm going to celebrate. But I can't say the words, chief. President, since a State Accounting investigation was involved, to mention that a state accountant was ◯snished by the council's executive, and, of course, we need a government accountant to do his job as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u53	A respectable president. Honorable senators. I want to reiterate that it is in a way understandable to debate government sales in banks and even to raise suspicion in the community. However, I would also like to point out that all records of bank sales are completely different from what was sold before the turn of the century. It's not just this country. It's the case on both sides of the Atlantic. There have been rules for sale, and it is only to see that the Bank Office applied completely to that rule. Thus, the Bank Management Board has an open trade process, a transparency, objective and practicality. I'd like to reiterate that the Minister of finance gave this assignment to the Bank office, so all talk of a financial minister being here with some abnormal intervention is clean and smart. I'm not afraid we're going to study this process from A to A, and I encourage it to be done because there's nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u54	A respectable president. The child is burned, and the natural tendency is to be suspicious and to doubt that everything here is going to be okay. I'm guided by the fact that I let people enjoy the doubt, and I'm not afraid of my share, or of those who were involved in this trade process, that it's being examined in the details of how things were being carried out. I just hope, and I trust it was right and honest. If there are other facts, there is a basis for much discussion here. That's why I agree with both the ideas of Public Reexamination and any kind of investigation. We're dealing with a little strange here. How did the state of Iceland acquire a bank? Did the state pay for Iceland Bank? It was a private deposit bank that went bankrupt. It was a dead body that was bankrupt, it was taken from within to the poor price, and the homes in the country lived with twice as much debt as it originally was worth. It's the homes of the country that owns Iceland banks and shouldn't be counting the rest of the money that hasn't already been sold and moving it to those who actually lost everything in this crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u55	A respectable president. It was pointed out here in the side room of a whale. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, is that I expel the train from the speakers who speak here in a pita. I will, of course, remedy it, including. I want to say that I have had full confidence in this process. I have. I also have confidence in Government Accounting. I'd think the proposal that the Minister of finance came up here earlier today should be the first step. But I'm also, of course, as I've said before, open to the fact that the council is taking the matter in any other direction and will have a whole mind to support it, as important when a bank belonging to the State is sold, when you look at what's been going on before in the setbacks that were here ten years ago, that we destroy all suspicions about this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u56	Today, there will be an ongoing discussion of some of the issues in which Prime Ministers will begin the discussion and answer. First of all, if the President can get a sound in the hall and those who want to be in conversation move out of the hall, the highest. Social and employment secretary. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson wishes to speak to the president's conference board, so he will.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u57	A respectable president. It has happened twice in the past few weeks that we senators have been here long after discussing matters from counsellors, and it turns out that ministers do not really trust to continue to measure and withdraw, withdraw back into their Ministry. I've found here in discussions about financial plans, such as that most ministers -- it's kind of obvious that there's nothing to figure out. In effect, the minister has said: " No, no, the cost will be much higher than that. ' Yeah, no, we're gonna do this and that. But there's nothing on this schedule. I'm just a little worried that it's really just wasting the duration of the council with this discussion that has taken place here in the last few days if the government ministers aren't actually behind this budget, they don't stand by it and what it says. They either have some misunderstanding on public financial laws and the process of everything or they don't seem to support this document. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I suggest that there be a break in financial discussions and coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u58	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Social Affairs for dealing with me this need to discuss social security matters. My first question to the Minister is, please consider the highest. Ministers suggest measures to correct the cumulative bloc of disability and sensibilities for the overall re-examination of the government's social security system? I really hope that the answer will be yes, but I'm really worried that it won't stand to bridge the gap between pensioners, social security and labour markets. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has suggested that he does not feel that there is a need for more money to reimburse the social security system and the financial programme that has been covered this week's discussion does not result in any change in these materials. At the same time, inflation is measured as 6.7%, but the state feels that there is only a 2.5% increase in this category each year. That doesn't mean anything more than a impaired heart. I fear that when the government speaks in two tongues, on the one hand, for reevaluation of social security and improvements in the interests of those living under the poverty line and for the need to reduce the incidence of disability and to reduce the rate of spending, the result will be that disability will be even worse than today. It is a failure to reevaluate social security, correct cumulative blundering, and pave up future dress-ups. Then I refused to give up all talk that a last term of revision could have been held back, but ARB stands in the way of that. The microengineering alliance refused to sign laws that would have opened the way for unworkable people to be pushed into a workforce. It's as simple as that. The people's party has provided a number of bills aimed at correcting the accumulated jawlining, preventing further hatching, and promoting disability in the labour market, which the government has ignored, suffocating matters on committees, paying votes against the few things that can be cut off by committees and votes. My second question to the Minister of Ministers is made available to the off-paying boundaries and declines in the social security system. The poor are the group mentioned among the hands, so it is chosen that if they even try to get into a work market, perhaps part - time or temporary, their pension pay will be well reduced by more than 50% in terms of taxes and impairment. By the end of the last few years, the government ignored the poorer, raised the income market by half by the time it was paid by old - age pensioners, but kept the single market unchanged. The default market has been standing for a decade, and it should actually be twice as high in terms of pay today, about 220,000 bucks. At that time, this government decided to meet older citizens who have suffered poor housing by giving them special support, 90% of the minimum amount of life that is cut off in return. These legislation established the government shortly after removing a general dollar from the bow and bow with a dollar, even though today there are 65 pennies against a dollar in general. My final question to the minister is that the government views the rights of disability and older citizens. Is it reasonable that governments will seize every opportunity to interpret every law code in that people are not entitled to strength or that strength should lead to failure? People may have the right to strengthen a variety of strengths, drug strengths, car strengths, motor impairment, household replacements, etc. The strength system is designed to meet people's needs and to protect them from increased costs due to illness and disability. However, while the law holds a right to strength, the matter is to be paid. Governments set complicated rules with detailed conditions that make it more than the need and rules are interpreted in the narrowest way in order to prevent reimbursement. I'm pointing, for example. in order to interpret automobile concentrations in ways that prevent those using walkers from using walkers from being allowed for driving strength because the rules define the inhibition of motor function in a way that prevents the person from using crutches or wheelchairs. In what world can we argue that people who use walkers are less motorized than those who use crutches? The latest example of how much the state yearns to acknowledge the rights of disability is just passed by the Supreme Court. Yesterday, the Supreme Court filed a case against an insurance agency. The third time in a row, the state was rocked. They have illegally impaired the provision of a foreign pensioner with reference to local dwellings. It's been going around for six years in the judiciary system. At each court level, a decisive judgment on illegal impairment was issued. Each time, the State decided to appeal the judgment to a higher authority. It seems to be a principle in the state. Because the case of microchip is protected. Other conditions include e.g. THE U.S.A., who planned to appeal a loss for the district, but the secretary of finance disagreed with that decision, and the case was resolved. It would be wish that the State had the same position when the desperate do judicial work. Then the woman who did the work yesterday might have benefited from the benefits, but she is sadly dead, and the matter ended for many years. Often it is suggested that a person is cheating on the State, but the cases turn on one another. Cross-cutting rights are desperate to admit their own offense. The state is nothing more than a social security offender.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u59	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his need for this discussion. It is the policy of what it says and of the government to work on a righteous and transparent system of social security, and it is seen in the emphasis of the government covenant. The global reexamination of the disability system is one of the biggest projects of this terms. Preparation for this work in my ministry, and I will be on the next company of directors and specialist teams across the department to lead the work. The review will be carried out in stages. The Government Treaty emphasizes the simplifying of the micro-energy system to make it more efficient, more efficient, more transparent, and more righteous and to improve the survival of micro-energy donors, especially the interests of losers. Thus, the steps will be taken to correct the condition of the breast. A senator brings up his question. At the end of the New Year, there was an additional 1% increase in payments for microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners, and at the same time funding was given to improve the rights system to prevent a so-called fall on the crown. This procedure will ensure an increased sense of responsibility on the rights of those who have incomeed for pension, increase equality, and a decrease in accounting abnormalities. The overall review will highlight the importance of the inclusion and recurrence of individuals with reduced labour capacity. People need to be financially motivated by employment, and they have a job opportunity without any threat to their safety. Therefore, an important part of the review is to ensure that those who lose their ability to serve and support at an early stage when people are at risk of premature elimination in the labour market. The results of increased emphasis on rehabilitation in recent years are clear - cut, part of early support. The incidence of disability donors was reduced by 28% between 2016 and 2020, and the proportion of subjects going directly in pension was reduced from 55% in 2016 to 33% in 2021. In addition to early intervention and rehabilitation, there is a great need to increase the number of partial and flexible jobs that are more suitable for people with impaired ability. Earlier today, under discussions on financial plans, I reported that from the next year on, there will be 430 billion worth every year. K. to work on this project. It is very important that when the system change takes place, we will be better able to receive more workers with limited employment skills and need more part - time jobs and more flexible jobs. In this context, of course, the decrease and the loss of the income limits should be considered. The benefits of involvement in a job market need to be reduced by obstacles and wrong motives. The restructuring of the system will focus on these factors. The payment of a specific replacement for social services was previously 100%, or changed by law since 2018, back again from January 1, 2018, with no longer a cent to the degree of disability. Since then, the calculation has been based on 65% of the income of pensioners. With the same law, the exception was made from the full implementation of social security improvements in the calculation of adequacy that now constitutes only 50% of the amount of age-related micro-emissions as measured by Article 21. Acting on social security to earning a pensioner instead of 100% before. With law No. 127/2020, which went into effect in January 2021, was made up of 95% of the money insurance paid to earn a pensioner's earnings in terms of 100% in the past. It may then be added that from January 1, 2020, the pay of microenergy and rehabilitation will be reduced by 11% due to the earnings of pensioners instead of 25% earlier. This was to prevent the so - called fall on the crown, as I mentioned earlier. If I take it together, the trend has been that income exchange has been reduced, and pensioners have given extra space to improve their prowess. But there certainly has to be a much better way to do it, and that is what the overall review will mean. Look at this. To all of this, we must not forget that some people simply cannot work, and so people also need to have decent terms, and the overall reviews need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u60	Madam President. The hide between payments to the poor from an insurance agency and the pay source at the lowest salary level has reached about 100,000 dollars. per month. It's like this, and it needs to be recognized. But it is not to see in the financial program for the next five years that we talked earlier today about the wearing of this gap in the near future. V.E.G. A social and workforce minister said in his discussion on financial programmes that the reason for the lack of money in the programme to improve the costs of disability and other pensioners was that there was no calculation and that they needed to be waiting for it, but some changes are expected in 2024. But, Madam President, there are figures to figure out how much it costs to bridge my dress. They were published last year in a good report by Ephraers, who subscribed to the Kjörður pensioner, a social security club, and a pension fund in the shape of earnings, composed by Stefán Ólafsson, and Stefán the Andri of Stefánsson. The conclusion is that it costs more than 30 billion, and tax returns, making the real cost more than 20 billion dollars. It is more expensive to ensure that micro- and older people are paid at the lowest rate. It is indeed disappointing that in the government budget there is nothing to be found that allows the government to be serious about improving the terms and bridges of the gap. People are trapped in poverty year after year. There are still more than a decade of revenues in the job market, the same as it has been for over a decade. If the pay line had been followed by a pay sheet, it should be more than 200,000 bucks. I'm right about a hundred thousand bucks. per month. The system is discouraging to efficacy, and immediately, with a higher cut-off target, and less revenues could be improved, but it is also necessary to raise the foundation for those who are unable to win or are not entitled to a pension fund. [[The president calls.]] Justice must take steps, and it can be done by ordering justice again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u61	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator in particular for this discussion, as well. For many years, especially those who are in the runt of disability have called for a certain freedom to earn jobs without the same severity of social security. True, a step has been taken, but it simply needs to be done much better. I was given an overview of an invalid who has always worked in the general labour market. He showed me how his income gradually increased over a period of years, but at the same time, he had to pay back much of the income he earned. President. This system lacks any incentive to get people who want to work their way back to the job market. Consider, for example, a person with a pension of 1.5 million. K. He increases his salary so that his pension will drop by 700,000 dollars. and he's got 500,000 bucks to pay. This is unfair and discouraging. It must be taken larger steps to increase the motivation that needs to be present. You see, people want to contribute to the community, including those who do not have enough energy to do so. President. There is much talk of the need to make part - time work, and there is a need to be taken care of. Governments and rural communities need to set a good example and make part - time jobs because of their duties, they are not merely paying taxes, they create pleasure and satisfaction in our good society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u62	President. The table on page 24. The 409 financial program is very revealing to government plans regarding these issues. There should be about a 2.5% increase per year in the case of disability, in social security, much less than inflation development or remuneration, whether higher. This means only one thing, that there is expected to be a reduction in the number of micro-organisms in this group. Based on projections, it is true that by 2027 there will be about 200 people who will have 75% of energy assessments. I can't quite make it work, though. It might also remember that the percentages of people with 75% energy assessment of commercial income are ranging from about 20% to less than 30%, 25% to 28% or so, as it is still fewer that are, in fact, due to the lack of disability benefits. However, the fundamental problem in the system is still present, and this is sparkling compared with pay development over the past 20 years. There is a fundamental need to be adjusted. We have law, 69. gr. Social security songs that say pensions should be raised to the same level of inflation at least should be followed in equal terms by salary development. Pension has been higher than inflation, but it has been too much for pay, so much so under pay development that it accumulates in about 20 years. Sixty percent. Today's pensions would have to be 60% higher in order to have followed their pay development. The question is, What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u63	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to know that the government intends to review the social security system. It's not perfect, it's not at all, and I trust the government to change and improve the social security system for the worse in our society. We want to invest in people, and everyone should be able to live a decent life, grow, and thrive. That's the community we want to live in. Nobody's supposed to fall off the train. We've always worked in progress on the basis of greater worth of value. It is obvious that the rules on holidays have arrived in time for review. For a long time, there has been appeals in the community. We need to give more freedom of movement to those who attend to social security. The dating is in a certain way discouraging to the present form, since it can weaken the motivation to participate in social and commercial activities. In progress, it is important to note that the common income market increases in paces and in pensions as a result of employment losses. That way we can meet the worst in society. This is an important operation, and with it we gain greater balance within society. In this context, I would also like to highlight the focus of advance towards senior employment income. As we progress forward, it is a great benefit to society that all who want and can work have the opportunity to do so. The fact is, there is a high percentage of older people in this country. This does not mean, however, that even when older people are in their pension years, they are not able to work, so we feel that it is necessary to eliminate the income markets of older citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u64	A respectable president. When you hear these numbers like they don't have 60% or there's gonna be 100,000 bucks. ... andlet'smakeit..it's really just your hands. There is a great penalty for our well - being. Let's just say we're talking about the lowest wage of 300,000 bucks. and there'll be an increase of 25,000. on the lowest wage. That means an up of 8.33%. And if we keep going, that means $25,000. 500,000 k. 5%. $25,000. and 750,000. That means 3.3%. $25,000. the million will mean 2.5%. If we find any of this, it's 4.79%. So the average pay level is increased by 4.79% when the lowest salary increases by 8.33. However, the lowest in the community is growing by 4.79, not by 8.33%. This is how we make up this silly face that our worst - standing people in the community need to take care of. Of course, it's preprogrammed that we're creating such a system. Why do we not allow improvements in the welfare system to include overall pay changes and increases in the lowest wage rate? There has been a debate in society and has become some kind of community contract that there is a need for a rise in the lowest wage. There's been an emphasis on raising them, including ... witha raise of crowns. Why is it not the same way to look at the transfer systems and see what benefits are being made?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u65	A respectable president. We've been discussing this huge social security system back and forth and forth, and shutting up is an amazing phenomenon because it's mainly been observed because it's been calculated after one year of inflation and usually wrong. In some amazing way, they have managed to find out that if there is an increase of 7◯8%, then there should be an increase of 3.5%, perhaps half, sometimes more than half. And 1%, who were, of course, screaming at the end of the year, just amazing in 7% of inflation. But that does not match the government's sound and image because what is involved in the government's controversy now? Yes, it is up to them that they're going to stop counting the pensions every month. They are now to be calculated once a year. What does it mean in English? The exact same thing. Refining. They're going to maintain the system. They're gonna take it on one side and keep it on the other side. I ask: Is it not enough for the government to treat social security, disability, and pensioners all the time? Is it not time for these people at least to respect the fact that they are not losing a month after a month, year after year, even if they do not have any other demands than they do for others? That would just be the minimum. And correct the heartbreak of the past few years, put it through, and stop starving people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u66	Madam President. It has long been aimed at changing the disability system. I have strong hopes that it will succeed now because in a decent welfare community, you simply have a social security system that grabs those who are unable to support themselves and their jobs and who are good for them. While voluntary limits and reforms are part of the social security pool, the benefits and the holidays will be included when the social security benefits are increased because they are part of the human extensions. On the other hand, a good welfare community also fits the fact that rehabilitation is good because by doing so, people can be more involved in society, whether in the workplace or in any other way, and it also makes them prosperous, and it also enables them to earn a living. That's why I'm so happy to hear that. A minister will emphasize the increase in part - time work and will put special emphasis and resources on improving rehabilitation and labour market management. But these two must be played together. We who can work for us should be able to get a job, and we want to work. However, when people are in the situation of not being able to win them, we are required to have good and safe living, for that is how we have them in the best interests of society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u67	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson did not really get the answers to his clear questions in a minister's speech, but hopefully the minister will make it better from the following. Inconsistencies are a political decision, and blundering between pay and pension is a political decision. This is not the law of nature. This year the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who now decided to raise her husband's sum of money, has allowed public insurance to rise less than the anticipated tax rates, and with the inflation of the past few months, the barbarism will become much more perfunctory. When inflation falls 6.9%, the commercial power of the earners is, of course, eaten up. It's a political decision. Secretary of society from the left green and the highest. Secretary of the Independence Party and of course Prime Minister, to maintain this trend without resorting to counterimbursement and without correcting the husk. President. I have to use this opportunity here in this discussion to correct absolutely incredible comments as the highest. Secretary of finance dropped here on Tuesday. He made little of the term baloney, of which this discussion was fraught, and said that by using it, talking about huffing, we would be suddenly out in all other discussions that our traditional guidelines, which are both legal and we've spoken for here, to ensure growing power in line with the capacity of the state's funds at one time, have ceased to make a difference. They want to start associating with some new criteria. So I want to ask the highest. Social Ministry on this and get clear answers below: Is it not certain that within the government and amongst Ministers that the Social Security Act stands in a very clear letter, in 69 st. for the improvement of social security, that their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of an index price? Is it just a secretary of finance who's wrong about this and doesn't know the social security laws, or is it the whole government? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm going to the top. Minister to review these matters with the secretary of finance and trust him to come up here and say just loud and clear: [[The president calls.]] Does he have confidence in that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u68	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. Today, there has been a number of news at the General Assembly, but there is probably a report at a scientist who hit me most where it stands before the large victory in the Supreme Court, by permission, by a dignified president: That was really hard for her. She waited a long time; she says Þuríður Harpa Sigurðardóttir, chairman of Iceland's Institute of Development for a woman who set up the State's Insurance Institute for All Judgments in a controversy of a degree of improvement in a special supply for domestics abroad. She's dead, I'm afraid. How sad and sad! How can that be, topv? Ministers that we put it upon people to fight for their rights, are people struggling with disability and sickness to have to conquer the State at a court level? Now I also point that question to the highest level. Minister, given the fact that he is also the associate minister of the northern countries. This report tells us that the woman lived in Denmark part of her life, and this is why a insurance agency has been cutting this special supply. Being here a spokesman for the Northern Community and the head of the Council of Northern Iceland, where we have set the goal of being the world's most integrated welfare nation in the North countries, I really meant that we had already guaranteed the rights of the Norwegian population between countries. V.E.G. Minister. I am absolutely convinced that we will agree that we must do better on this. It's hardly that week goes by any other way than there's news about the implementation of social security that is more often than not unsettled to the Supreme Court. That, in my opinion, is a subject of thought, Mr. President, why a pensioner has to fight in court of law. Is our system too complicated and too vague, or what we here in this room need to unite in order for this to be better?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u69	President. Speaking of rights, at least 2.4 million seniors a year have in a special vacation market for employment. Now I have a verbal inquiry to the minister of this matter, and I would like to really prepare both the minister and the council for that discussion. Here's the problem: According to the income tax laws, there is no social security clearance in terms of the pension policy and there's no license. There's a warrant for that in 16. for micro-organic transplant recipients, another defect which precludes this. But there is no authority in the Social Security Act to eliminate pensions from pensions as a professional income. However, it is overlooked by a insurance agency that reduces basic pensions according to the payment of pensions, pensions from mandatory job-related pensions. A member of the Generals has discussed this, stating that it is very clear from law that it was intended by the Generalis that it would work this way. But the lyrics are not like that. That happened in 2016, when desperate men said no to that new system that old - age pensioners went on. They had to divide the exceptions and be sure that pension payments were not considered to be commercial incomes in micro-energy pensioners, not in pensioners. As a result, the basic pension of a pensioner from 2016 has been cut off, since their pension payments should have been counted as income and fall into the special holiday market about 2.4 million a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u70	A respectable president. We're reviewing the social security system, we need to ensure that microenergy pensions continue with the minimum wage. We need to simplify our pension system considerably, but it is a jungle in the present form. Impelled and forced to operate is required. There are a number of people who rely on social security but who are extremely powerful and who can pay off to the community. We're supposed to grab them and encourage them to work and function, including using a revised social security system. Work and function, that's your goal, and that's possible. Madam President. No one has missed that there is an obvious violation line in a real estate market here. That's what we're supposed to do, and I'm glad we're doing it. Minister of wood has taken action for this purpose. The domestic problem affects many, especially the worst. Most of those who live at low prices live in debt and pay high rents that continue to rise. It is important that we meet those who are at worst with regard to housing. As an example of how a house market works, we still need to increase the number of rent homes for the poor and disabled people in the general housing system. However, I would also like to point out that there is a need for community cooperation and the State. In the capital area, communities have failed to build up real estate. In this context, I look to the capital, which requires more structure than most of the city's capital. A need for balance and sense in the structure and structure of new ones is needed. The opportunity exists, and I sincerely hope that the mayor will take hold of what they have neglected in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u71	A respectable president. Let us not forget that it is ministers who sue their clients. It doesn't happen by itself. There are also ministers who decide what to do with money. Let us not forget, too, that more often than not the Ministry of Social Affairs has been controlled, so it is not on duty just for some of the people that have been affected. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke of the law and what it was like and spoke of pension income as professional income. Yes, it's a job income in the sense that it's a late job income. These are job incomes that people have stored for older years, so you ask: "How is it that your system is being cut off because of late employment? It has been mentioned in this public address that the cost of bringing the currency market to the same level as the job's holiday market is 15◯16 billion. This would completely change the position of many who are taking out their pensions, so small. We see that money is being spent in all kinds, but it's a group that's left behind, most of them with about 200,000,400,000. in a month to live with quiet and seyrium, but this group has not been able to be seen. Alternate and pre-existing coagulations. Even though it's the highest. Ministers here claim in the pontta that the decrease and subsidence have been reduced, that's just not true. They've increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u72	A respectable president. I want to thank all those who have participated in this discussion. I don't believe in it, or I'm optimistic about it returning something. Unfortunately, there are laws, walls, and traps in the public security system that have been created in recent decades. If people want to do what is right, they have to go to the state court, the Supreme Court, no matter how well prepared the case, or even though the U.S. Marshal's agent has confirmed it. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir said earlier. She waited six years. Sick people don't have time to wait six years. Let us see that 1988, at the start of local payment, was the lowest tax - free benefits, and even leftover characters in a pension fund. If this were exactly the case today, this group would be with 40,000 bucks. more than a month that could even make a difference even if people could not be raised to poverty. It's also amazing that there are no incomes from a pension fund, such as those of older citizens. Who gets the worst of it? Let's get out of Is a government after a government hostile to women? Do they like it so much that if they have any money from a pension fund, they have to, and especially to cut it down? These people are not asking for much. It's just asking to enjoy the small pension that they've already earned on the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u73	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to say thank you for taking up this important subject here at the General and all of them. Parliamentaries who have participated in their discussion. I take along what has been discussed here into the important work ahead of me to revise the disability system, which certainly is time to make changes. I'm going to respond to a few of the points that have been presented here, and maybe particularly into the court of the Supreme Court that fell yesterday. I rejoice in the bottom line of the sentence. I'm happy for her because it's a justice matter. So I'm glad that this conclusion has arrived, and the Ministry will cooperate with the insurance agency. Well, about what? Haraldsdóttir But her words to me about this matter - perhaps not to me, to be explained - should be directed to me. Today, very many of you have mentioned this very afternoon. The point is, the system we have today is way too complicated. Small changes in one place cause impairment in another, and therefore this overall review is required. There are stages to be taken, as I have mentioned. We need to have more flexible jobs and part - time jobs ready to accept people who have the ability to work and thus approach the project. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, you're going to have to break up with the rest of the men's lungs and a lot of them. Councilmen have mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-07-64.u74	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the changing of the law on the remuneration of loan companies and stock companies' stocks and investment insurance laws. The bill's on the roof. 759 and 531th. The bill consists of, first of all, the induction of the third and final implementation of Directive 2014/59/EU for restoration and submission of the loan institutions and stock companies called in the daily speech of the BRRD directive. Second, the bill contains changes, not based on European rules, but on things that the state can decide for itself. The changes in the bill based on the directive are about funding and credit, but this fund operates under the laws on loan management and stock companies. The role of the return fund is to ensure short-term funding for measures that can be used for financial management. However, the contents of the bill on the funding of the return fund do not base solely on the directive, where the funding process provided in the bill and I shall later go to my speech, goes beyond the minimum rules of the directive. The changes in the bill on investment insurance laws and insurance systems are not induction of European rules. However, they are desirable either in view of the fact that a return fund is intended to work permanently as a special section in the insurance reserve of the depositors and investors, or because the changes are considered to be simple or clear of the law, as well as the things that they eliminate out of the out - of - date laws. Before I bring up the key elements of the bill, I'd like to mention that the US Insurance Fund's holdings are now far greater than those of comparable sectors in the European Union. The bill also attributes that the TFF fund has significantly altered its role after the introduction of a law on loan therapy for credit institutions and stock companies. Their implementation of the law, as well as changes in other bank market laws and rules, has greatly reduced the likelihood of testing the internal insurance system in the same way as the 2008 banking collapse. Among the consequences of changing rules, it is assumed that the systematic importance of banks in return treatments will result in a serious problem. In the event of a return therapy, the content department is not expected to pay money directly to its owners. While it may be necessary to pay funds for financial management, each taking into account the conditions that need to be met in order to make that payment seems unlikely to come. If it were to be done by the tip of the depository department, the maximum payout will be required from the department. Therefore, the TIF Penitentiary is already intended to provide assurances for previously approved legislation at the heart of credit institutions that are not intended to undergo return therapy if they have a serious problem. A respectable president. I now argue that the key elements of the bill are: First of all, TIF is permanently expelled in three separate divisions: division, stock department, and return funds. No changes are made in the sector of the fund, so it will remain in the oasis of self-employment. Second, the transfer of donated funds from the TPF to a return fund so that the size of the core and the share of the returned fund will be proportionately the same as between minimum European budgets. These minimum limits are 0.8% and 1%, respectively, of the loyalty of all the loans on land. After the transfer, a trust fund will be made larger than a division of 25%. The move is 26.3 billion. but that money is based on the position of the trusted institutions and property of the deposit centres and the return fund at the end of 2021. After transfer, a return fund of 2.67% will be made by trusted central blood vessels and internalization will be 2.13% by trusted central blood vessels. Thus, both sides will be considerably higher than minimal requirements. Third, the bill contains laws on how to pay the loans on donations in return funds. Among them is a proposal that two EU regulations dealing with methodology and calculation of funds will be provided by law. However, the bill makes it clear that donations will be collected only if the funds are kept under the minimum, i.e. One percent of the insides are insured. The regulations of EU regulations therefore remain undiminished. Fourth, the payment of pay from the fund's deposit department is now being stopped. Is this done in the light of the strong property position of the department I have mentioned before? The minister should write in writing about the management position of the fund to see if circumstances have changed in the way of reassigning the collection of deposits in the centre department. Fifth, a change in the names of depositors and investors is required. It is suggested that the automaton get a new name that will become a financial insurance deposit system. The changed name is thought to reflect more fully the activities of the Agency after the changes discussed in the bill. sixth, it is suggested that the number of TIF officials be reduced from six to four. The main work of the management board will be the management and funding of the three departments. The bill assumes that the Agency of financial companies names one of the directors, the Iceland Sellabanski, one and the minister, will appoint two without appointment and become the head of one of them. Finally, I'd like to mention that in the bill, there are proposals that some of the laws on deposit insurance and insurance systems for investors would fall away. These are out - of - date regulations that are confused with existing financial laws or that do not serve purpose after the major changes that have taken place in financial markets over the past few years. A respectable president. The bill of this includes the transfer of funds from the TPF's centre to the return fund. That way, when funding the return fund, it is a practical option for both depositors and loan agencies. A well-funded return fund is an advantage for depositors and the public where the funds are intended to ensure short-term funding for measures that can be taken in financial management. As I mentioned earlier, return therapy is the process expected to be a systematic problem for banks. The BRRD directive was set up in the EEA contract in 2018 and the EFTA monitoring agency has formally started a trial against Iceland in order to fully implement the directive. It has already been decided by the Agency to address the EFTA Court on the basis of Tay Iceland's implementation of the only EU Regulation that supports the BRRD. The bill contains a refinement to allow this to be implemented by the Commission's Regulation. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to mention that despite the fact that the contents of this bill protected changes in the law of investment insurance and insurance insurance system, it does not involve in any of the induction of the European Union's third European Directive on social security. This directive went into effect in the European Union in 2014 but has not been adopted in the EEA Convention. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. Here at the council.
