ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-30.u1	A respectable president. I hereby recommend to the greater part of the Committee for ETS on a bill to correct the veterinary medicinal product. The bill is suggested to establish a new total animal-based legislation on the veterinary medicinal product in this country. The objective of the bill is to guide the quality and safety of the veterinary medicinal product in animal safety. Care should be taken to ensure that medicinal products used in animals are safe and effective. The aim of the law must also be to ensure the safety and wholesome food produced from animal products in this country and to increase the fight against antibiotic resistance. The bill includes the introduction to European animal models and the use of the veterinary medicinal product protocol below refers to the EU Regulation No. 6/2019. It is stated that the bill will become a law near January 28th to ensure harmonization between Iceland and the EEA's internal market. The committee received five reviews, and the committee brought in visitors to discuss these comments and the case itself. The name of most of the object lies on the roof. 377, but following the services committee coverage, I would like to make some specific arrangements from the coverage. There was a viewpoint on the Food Institute Database, Health, and this included comments. Recording of the product prescribing information from animal physician on veterinary medicinal product in the registry. Based on information from the staff who won the bill, the database is being reprogrammed, including to accept this information. So much of it would like to emphasize to the government that the database will be ready to receive all the necessary information under the law as soon as possible. It is important that the database is simple and accessible to those who need it, who are primarily farmers and veterinarians. Then, in its review, the Bavour Group proposed to add a set of provisions that allow access to the farms and partners within them to information from the database for sexual reforms that are aimed at reducing the incidence of disease. The majority of them consider it important that information can be used from the database for scientific purposes, whether by sex reform or by other studies. So the more part encourages further discussion and an opinion on the work and innovation of the Ministry to see if further evidence is needed to exploit information from the foundation in the manner proposed by the National Association. The bill will include fresh reports of veterinary long - term health care, and a greater part of it welcomes the new reports of the long - range health care of veterinarians in relation to the clinical assessment of the publication of the prescriptions. The majority of the rights to be taken into account is that there will be a problem with the publication of a remote health service directive and that the establishment of the employment and innovation of the Ministry, the Food Agency, Vegetarian physicians, and farmers will be ensured in the preparation of the Regulation, as agreed by the National Competent Authority. It also came to the view that the terms of the bill are unclear whether veterinary surgeons who have confirmed the European Economic Area and come to the country to provide services need special permission and if they intend to apply for any particular license if they intend to use non-authorized veterinary medicinal products in this country. The majority of the reports show that the work permit for foreign veterinary surgeons is in force for permission to practice veterinary practice in Iceland for veterinary surgeons educated in the European Economic Area. In the Regulation there are temporary jobs in Iceland and permission to be applied for the Food Agency. The more part indicates that there is no change on this project, since the bill merely deals with the quantity and types of medicines that the foreign veterinarians have in their possession. In this case, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (EMA) is already authorised to allow authorised medicinal products for use in this country. Then the more part contributes to a few minor changes to the bill. First, the concept of business is the change. The bill uses both concomitantly and concomitant imports, but their meanings the same as the majority suggest that the concept of concomitant business will be used, according to the animal regulation. It is suggested that the terms of the b-joins be 6 mg. 102st. The animal type of veterinary medicinal product should be specifically recorded in the bill according to the indications shown in the reviews. The Regulation recommends a notification-of-authority agreement before presenting a candidate for concomitant administration with a legal veterinary medicinal product. In view of the greater part, the uptake of this law will make the law clearer and will reduce the risk of medication shortages that can affect the well - being of animals. So, more part suggests we're at 42. This bill adds to the requirement for having a Marketing Authorisation, such as 39. The MAH shall report on the expected concomitant business of one month prior to submission of a commercial application for these products to the Marketing Authorisation Holder. The majority also points out that the Ministry will set up a regulation on concomitant transactions that must be investigated by a holographic agreement. Then the more part suggests a change of the 9th team. The bill. The terms of the terms Marketing Authorisations for inactivated immunological products for animals manufactured from pathogens and antigens derived from animals or animals from the same farm are recommended. The review of the Food Agency shows that it is better to employ the wording of the veterinary medicinal product protocol based on the epidemiological unity of the hive. The majority agree with this view, stating that a disease may be diagnosed, not to a specific farm, but to a specific area, whether to a rural, geographic unit, the food - control chamber, or even the whole country. Finally, the larger part suggests that the value of the bill will be changed, not to a date, but to a date when it has been approved. In addition, the number 4 will be removed. 1 1. a prescription will be eliminated at this time. The Qualifications of the 89th chapter The law is referred to the number. The review of these measures will be performed at the Ministry of Health, which is part of a full re-examination of medicinal products and is based on the information provided by the Committee to provide a bill for the next fall. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the changes outlined here in a special Senate document, No. 378. In view of the greater part, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Hrönn Hafsteinsdóttir, Jódís Skúladóttir, Óli Kárason Kjállsson Oddný new G. Harðardóttir sign in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-31-30.u2	President. The members of the greater section are listed in the article by permission of a president: A group appointed by the health - care minister to introduce the above European types found that new overall animal treatment laws were needed. Baseline this is the product of the work force.◯ I think it's important that it be made up, and I'm the main reason why I'm not involved in this matter, that the team of workers who were supposed to be involved in the 2020 operation was not due to fail until the summer of 2021. The government's decision to keep elections in the fall, and the vote that will follow in the northwestern district, has the effect that this bill is being acted in haste, worked in a great stream of time. It is important that this bill become a law, it was supposed to happen before January 28th, so I understood that we are a little behind, which is because it is a European Regulation that needs to be introduced. It's my experience that when these bills - they're the total ones being won - they're worked on by hand and they're making a mistake, they're likely to make some kind of mistake. All too often at our work. I realize that this was a mistake, it wasn't meant to start the group so late, but it means for me that I don't trust in it and that I'm responsible for it in any way. I thought it was important that we do. It's probably the best thing to do, but I'm protesting that kind of work, and I think we should be careful and prevent these things in the future.
