ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u1	It has been given as follows: President of the United States reports: I have decided, according to the proposal of the prime minister, that the Council should meet for an extended meeting on Monday, January 17, 2022 p.m. 3:00. Arrange sites, January 11th, 2022. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for a meeting of the General Assembly for a subsequent meeting on January 17, 2022 I'd like to use this opportunity here after reading this letter and offer the highest. President and w. Senators welcome to New Year's Parliamentary Conferences.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u2	A letter has been received by the chairman from the following recruiters where the request is made to provide written answers to queries: from a social and workforcer for a requested application. 110, U.S. National Insurance Agency, Óli Björn Kárason, to padding. 128, Social Security Insurance, Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson, and padding. 201, on recovery of reform tools in the State's Re-Election Research and Social Security Status from Hallyru Mogensen; from the Ministry of Health for Requesting. 200, of the suicide reduction programme, from Eva Sjöfn Helgadóttir; from the Minister of the Interior for a written application. 256, about the cupbearers, from Lenyu Rön Rún Karim, and finally from the Prime Minister for a question on deck. 161, on the optional accounting of the global contract on economic, social, and cultural rights, from the Áshilildi Ásthildur Þórsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u3	The President intends to consult the council's warrant so that a conference can last longer, but the Congress dictates if due to a case of No. 3 on the schedule, due to due date. Are such comments made? This is not the case, nor can a conference stand longer than any political body should if that is why it is necessary to say so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u4	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign and Development Collaboration Ministers, Transport, Business and Culture Ministers and Social Affairs and Employment Ministers,
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u5	Mr. President. While there are natural limits for health control, there have been consequences for many people and businesses. How disappointing it is, then, that the government with all its tools, funds, and access to experts has not appeared for weekend with any new solutions or measures, either for the health system or for the business of hope! Of course, the big project is a well - funded, well - equipped human health system, and the government has indeed done much work without having had more time. Healthcare professionals have been under a lot of human stress, even for a long time before the ride of Covid, in a work environment that is under the control of many people. And a major reason for the pressures on the health system is years of neglect, making the problem ever bigger. It is not enough to finance the direct cost of a pandemic. To attract people and prevent them from falling apart from work, they need to be improved in terms of employment and work environment. However, humans certainly take time, but now after two years with Covid, where the problem may have been. More clearly, there is a lack of vision and serious action. It is strange and short - lived, too, that the government has not improved the health - care provider's interests, at least pay proper financial stress during the situation as it has been done in other countries. It is also incomprehensible that the government has refused to give the 2 billion in hospital management only to maintain the present service, not to improve. I realize that the health minister is in the side room and is participating in a discussion tomorrow on health matters. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: What is the plan? Does the government really not supply any ideas or solutions to strengthen the health system that prevented people from experiencing a persistent decline in their lives and the ability of companies to continue to thrive?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. This, of course, is a matter of concern to all of us. I want to trade my answer in two. On the one hand, the long-term policy for the health system is that of the dog. A senator specifically mentioned that it was not only about this pandemic, and I can agree with him on that. Hence, it was of great importance that this was adopted in a very good agreement of health policy until 2030, where light was provided for the health system, not only by the Land Hospital but also by health care and by our own means, as well as by our current health - care providers. Thus, we have seen a significant increase in budgets, either in hospitals, in health care, now or in the expense of patients, which was here with the highest level of what happens in the North countries before the last term but is heading toward pairing with other continents. So there are many things to think about, and I think we've all agreed on the increase that has been making money. Then there is our health - care system, as well as other health - care systems, and it may be so clearly seen in our case because we live in a small country with one main hospital and another in Akureyri. The pressure has been inhuman, but what? A senator, and I can agree with that. Of course, many measures have also been taken to meet a special hospital by opening up new spaces throughout the system. I can stand here and count room, rehabilitation room, mercy space, day space. Of course, the scoring team has been activated, the electronic solutions have been enhanced, we have seen a big change, even a revolution in the recent years. Two high-security and four other planned areas have been opened, and they are involved in the preparation of epidemic units. And because. A senator mentions the most extensive change that has been made for years in a shift - working arrangement, which, of course, matters to health professions. The mission isn't over, but I think we need to keep the long-term vision open as soon as we take short-term action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u7	Mr. President. At the top. The prime minister just needs to disagree about the need to do so. I think it's somehow confusing investments with construction, business, business development. Our health care providers have achieved remarkable results in the battle with Covid, but the health - care system is also affecting the whole community in other sectors. We have come to a special crusade today, where we need to live with this phenomenon for some time and to consider how we can prevent other things from going down and even disappearing or reducing. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister whether it also feels that it is not necessary to engage in further and more efficient economic activities, e.g. by extending some form of the part - improvement process, thus strengthening the resources for the people of the business that are getting very badly affected, who are getting worse and exhausted after a repeated loss of income.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u8	Mr. President. Now, I want to make it very clear that I am not confusing anything here in the IIlium symposium. However, it is important that we not only promote our business but also attack the long - term development of projects that I would have maintained. A senator would agree to make a difference outside of a very important system purchase, so it has been donated at all fronts. Hv. A senator named here in his first question and treason for education and culture, which took place during the last term and has provided the first motion at the end of November. The purpose is to try to identify this need over a longer period of time. It was one of the priorities of these classes that real work would be done to identify the need for design because it is one of the major factors. I want to reiterate that much has been done, chief. A health minister may review it better tomorrow, both to a shorter and longer time. Regarding economic operations, we see that there is a great improvement in the economy and unemployment projections have failed. It's gone much faster than it was predicted because of what we were doing. A senator spoke about it at the time. But I believe the measures need to be directed to the sectors that are truly in trouble. I can mention culture and social events, I can name the food sector, and we also have to look to the tourism services and what we can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u9	The president kindly reminds us that these discussions are not the norm but the time of the talk. It's forlorn and highest. During his talks, the prime minister exceeded his schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u10	A respectable president. Before the weekend, an article by Stefánssonar's Kári, who was titled: an answer to the Federal Protection, was recently critical of the Agency's decision on the procedures of Icelandic genetics. There are three decisions, one of which includes breaking the law of the Icelandic genetics when it collected blood samples from patients at the National Hospital without having the permission of the Scientific Committee. The blood samples were taken from patients in the Covid Community Hospital ward following the application of Icelandic genetics to the Scientific Committee, but prior to granting the grant of the test by the Committee. The Kári disagrees with the conclusion and explains the reasons for this in the above article. But the most interesting part of the article that Kári published is that it also shows a copy of a letter as the highest. The prime minister wrote to him, as she seems to agree with Kári's viewpoint that the issue of the matter is wrong and that he even says it is wrong. that blood samples have been taken at the request of a health care professional and of the Land Hospital. However, there is no record of any of the files in the Land Hospital, which, as a result, have not been worked with the Land Hospital as confirmed by the Supreme Hospital. As a result, a law has been violated in the performance of the sample. President. Strains that protect the city's personal protection are taking place around the world during the time of the crown virus. Their independence and the right of the citizens to privacy has been severely restricted. That's why I'm so worried about it. Since it seems that the prime minister is going to undermine independence as important as Peritoneal protection, I must ask the highest question. Minister: Before sending a letter to Kári, the son of Stefánsson, did she pass judgment on Pernon? Before sending a letter, does it damage any evidence or explanation from Perone Protection on the decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u11	Mr. President. I read this decision in Perconte, which is not an institution under me. In my reply to the letter of Kári the son of Stefánsson, it was stated that a minister is not involved in a Persian protection decision, since it is an independent institution. However, it was shown in my response, and according to the information of a psychiatrist, he had the premeditation to request this investigation. His data was that Landspiral and Icelandic genetics were working on this joint, and the Ministry of Health has confirmed that understanding with me. So my data is that the study was carried out on the request of a DG to provide the basis for decision-making in terms of anti-pyretic measures in cooperation with the National Hospital and the Icelandic Genetics. This is because I thought it was a bad thing. One of the main questions is to ask about my authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u12	A respectable president. In fact, this is shown in the letter quoted by Kári. Clearly, Prime Minister Kári Stefánsson sent more letters than what he published because there was nothing to show about the independence of the state of Persia. But that's exactly where the dog lies, a respectable president. The independent Persian protection must be an important factor in a democracies community, that agencies have the confidence that they respect that if people disagree with Persian protection's decision, they can have that conclusion in court. This is shown by the Supreme Court of Peritoneal Protection. Minister says he read that there is no record of these blood samples at the Land Hospital. But okay. I wondered what the purpose of this letter was and why the prime minister decides to comment on his position on the decision of an independent agency to the director of the company that the decision was given.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u13	Mr. President. Yes, that's right. That's right. A senator who is expected not to reveal everything to Kári Stefánsson, which is indicated by the role of courts in evaluating the rightfulness of individual solutions. Of course, it is only the legal environment that we create, and it is natural that ministers do not agree with such a decision. So I don't make comments about it in that sense. However, I felt urgent that the circumstances under which we were working were that there was an epidemic that we had little or no knowledge of. We were all trying to do our part, and there Icelandic genetics have become extremely strong in coping with this epidemic. The result of this study was the way I described it. This, of course, is vital, since this study has provided a basis for continued decision-making on preventative measures. It was my understanding of this, and as I say, it was on the one side of my discussions with a psychiatrist and then it was the Department of Health that the Landspians were a member in this study by the Icelandic genetics. [[The president calls.]] I would like to use this opportunity, Mr. President, to say that it is absolutely priceless, the contribution of this company to our struggle with this disease. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u14	The president still reminds us of a limited talk period in this part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u15	A respectable president. During this unprepared time of inquiry, I would like to speak to the highest level. Social and employment secretary for domestic work. I have come here to discuss the modern outlaw. How is it that a pension is lost when a pensioner moves abroad? There is no guarantee that people will receive similar rights from another state when a pensioner moves from abroad even if he still has the right to perform disability. People may be fleeing the country simply to make ends meet, with housing prices on the top, and with significant decreases in income. Why is it that people are being made to feel that way? Isn't this discrimination based on population? There is a price for dwelling on high. The price of hire is on high. A large group of people don't stand a chance, either to own an apartment or to rent any longer. That is why I ask: " How is it that home satisfaction falls when a pensioner leaves a country without regard to whether he is entitled to receive similar support in a new country? We must realize that those with 200,000 bucks. Plus in the social reform system, we have 200 bucks to pay. Plus rent or housekeeping. There's nothing left, nothing left for food, nothing left for other needs. People are being tortured and asked, "What am I supposed to do? " You want me to go on the street, or do I have to move out of the country? People went into exile, wrongdoers, but these are sick people who have not been wronged. It asks, "If I move out of the country, why on earth do I get hit? "
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u16	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The Senator here will discuss a household supplement that falls when a person moves abroad. I'm going to get ahold of this, so I think it's right that we need to take a special look at this. There's a court case going on about a situation that just has to do with this, I don't know exactly if it's the case. A senator is referring to it or what, so I'm going to have a better conversation with the senator later on. What I would like to get into here may be related to some extent, although not related, and these are housing benefits. The people who are struggling to make ends meet in this community are people who have very high rent, people who are renting rent. There I think we need to take a special look at the improvements, as well as improve the general housing system so that we can create more opportunities for less - than - afforded people to reduce rents. It is a pleasure to see the recent developments in the right direction in this regard, and I know why. A senator knows well, especially since the overall housing system has been added. There have been tens of thousands of rents dropped, and I think we need to continue on that path.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I must tell him that there are thousands who wait. They don't accept applications anymore. When he's talking about the housing reform system, it's a poor system. Every dollar also reduces the amount of housing. If we talk about the share loans that are supposed to be so great, there's not one house that's behind it, except maybe somewhere in the country. Then people are being forced either to move out of the country or to move out of the country and to make an exile. There must be a time when this government will see to it once and for all that time to revise the system. Quit these impairments and let people live where they want to, and if they go abroad, there must be some law against discrimination, depending on whether they live in Iceland or if they want to live in a country in Europe. It can't stand to judge just because of where you live, not by the way you move.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u18	V.E.G. President. Here's a word. A senator's need for our consideration is limited, and I would like to give that heartfelt consideration. Senator. It is quite clear in the Treaty of the current government that we are going to a reexamination of the system. Of course, that's where the damages come in. I've declared it before here that I believe this is one of the most important issues on my level that want to approach this system conversion in this way. Just as we try to get as many people into the workforce as possible, we need to make sure that the benefits come from those who cannot earn money are that people can make ends meet. These are the basics of what we need to look forward to in the months ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u19	A respectable minister. During the week and week, Spain's prime minister declared that the time had now come for the pandemic of Covid-19 to be approached as each other's flu. A new approach would be required, since a natural pandemic was over, considering that the so-called ultrasound variant of the virus was much milder than the first. On January 9, more than a week ago, Dr. Ragnar Frenar Ingvarsson, former head of the Covid parade, wrote a fistula to Facebook where he expressed doubts that we were still on the right track in dealing with the epidemic. With the permission of a president, Ragnar gives up questions such as: Does it make sense to perform all these pcr tests that most of the free people who are at low risk of serious illness, hospitalisation, or intensive care? The Pcr tests are not free. Today, I suppose the cost is between 50 and 100 million. Would be e.g. More sense of pointing it into the hospital? Do only those at risk test? Do Those Who Are Especially at Risk Watched? Do we need to rethink our approach? Looking beyond the road? . That's how Ragnar Freyr asks. That's what's so important now, i.e. To be afraid to look for a new route and a new approach. So, in view of what I've mentioned here, I'd like to ask the highest. The medical minister's attitude is to the news now coming from Spain and his colleagues there, in view of the fact that there are still even more percentages of people who pretend to have this virus in them than in Iceland. I would also like to ask the highest. A minister to the view expressed by the former head of the Board of Walks of Covid in Iceland stated in his panels called Ragnar Freyr Ingvarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u20	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Good questions for the Bergþór of Ólason. He reflects on the viewpoints that have been presented. First, I'd like to say about the PCR tests that they've been an important factor in our treatment strategy, but I welcome all the different viewpoints that show how we can apply any available advice we use, in view of our resources. The nature of a case says I'm a health minister with my eyes on that ball. When comparing ourselves with other nations, we must take into account that we are in a different place in the wave if we take to form Spain. We work very hard, in consultation with the Center for Disease Control, the Center for Disease Control, to find out what's going on elsewhere. Yes, there is a cost to the PCR tests, but they are an important factor in our measures and we should not allow these important measures to rule out the measures we take with the Land Hospital, where the main focus for the treatment of Covid patients is: The parade. We have had numerous operations in cooperation with the hospital and the health system all. I can bring in all the measures in return, and it's necessary to negotiate with independent sectors that show community responsibility and come in and get ready for a bag with the hospital. I am stressing that we are cooperating with the hospital while the situation is the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It was surprising that several days apart, the suggestion to postpone schooling in the basic schools and then a few days later was rejected. Friday, the decision was to lock everything with the ten - man meeting boundaries and more on that subject. I would like to know in this context how a minister values his field service. What investigation has been made by a minister when it comes to his burdensome decision about the rights and responsibilities of those in the name of the sick? I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to this in order to help us general members of the Parliament understand how the measures are so important to the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u22	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the questions. They are very important regarding the situation in which we are in the pandemic. When I talk about the situation, she's been changing with regard to a new variant that's much more contagious. Because we watch models and try to predict what the health - related pressures can be, that's a lot of it. To unlock the situation, that's the way it is, over the period 5,◯12. January, when we introduce these latest suggestions and rules, there are three memos from a disease - control doctor who will change as this happens and we will always have to evaluate this. [[Up front.]] There were three suggestions; unchanged, hardened restrictions, even for a limited period of time. [[The president calls.]] If so, we will consider this to be a matter of motive and necessity, moderate in size and equality. That is always what we have a responsibility to do. [[The president calls.]] But our primary obligation will always be the same, and we must not allow the rules to outweigh the targets in that respect, i.e. to protect your life and health and to make sure that your health system is available each day to cope with the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u23	The president still reminds us of speech time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u24	A respectable president. The Organization completed the last year's assessment of the environmental effects of the silica Union Bank in Helga, and last week it was informed of the signing will of the factory's possible sale. The main conclusions of this assessment are, as the report says, by permission of the president: Since induction will be successful, the Organization considers the role of the 1st class of air quality management to be effective, i.e. as Hyperbola ovens, quite a negative ◯ [...] However, the effect of the final production on air quality to four ovens in the same way as planned could be considerably negative. When the report shows that there is something else in my mind that is in harmony with today's ill - eyed views on climate. For example, in the factory 155,000 tons of coal per year will be burned for full - time business. This would be one of Iceland's largest industrial pollutants. The production also results in carbon dioxide emissions from burning on fossil fuels of up to 100,000 tons per year compared to a single arc reactor and up to 400,000 tons a year relative to four ovens. There are also such substances as mercury and arsenic, which are produced in this factory. In addition, many of these substances have a common role in causing respiratory irritation and subsequent respiratory distress, especially in those who are already ill. That's why I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister on her view of this assessment of environmental impact and the declaration of will. Does Ministers believe that a silicar's restarting can harmonize with the outlook and policy of the nation on climate? Is it consistent with the left-green climate policy? Is it compatible with the interests of the nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The divine Guðbrandur of Einarsson of this inquiry. Now I'm just going to say that I haven't studied the exact decision of the Organization for this, but, of course, I have full confidence in the institution that it works out of the best professional information and logic available. But as for this declaration of will, if I know it correctly, it's between the PCCs of Backka and Afron Bank, isn't it? So it is in itself difficult to get in there, since the community is likely to be there with its organizational authority, and it is likely that the community has much to say exactly what the future will be about this factory. So that I will not enter into this matter in every detail, as it were. Of course, a senator knows much better than I do from his former career in the township of Smokejanestown. I just want to say that in general, whether it's about this investment or something, we're of course, and that's what the government's been doing, e.g. by implementing specific indentations for investments that lead to reduction of emissions, not to increase emissions, trying to promote industry where we seek green solutions, green routes; reduce emissions and bind more carbon. That's the general policy. In this particular matter, however, I do not trust to evaluate the decision as a matter of course. A senator here mentioned specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for her answer. She refers to heretics and to the organization's organizational authority. Certainly, there is organizational authority at the community, but we are looking at the mistakes of the previous years that occurred at the time when the factory was actually given permission, not by the community, but a license that came, not from the local community, but from the Agency after the evaluation of environmental effects published by the Agency. At that time, investment agreements were made that helped to make these factories a reality. They were from the State as a desire for this company, so the rural society alone cannot be responsible for these problems, although it may have been a part of them. I'll say here, the General owes the Southnesy to wind this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u27	Mr. President. I think it's important that we rip this up a little bit. This factory was conducted from November 2016 to September 2017, so in reality it is. A senator describing the leading cause of its departure. That's the story, and it can't be changed. It seems to me, however, just as I've read about this case in the media, that the town government of Smokejanes is in strong solidarity and that the town government is willing to work this case differently, and I think it's important that the town government come forward if there is solidarity in the township and look for ways to do so. With what I heard, people are naturally concerned about polluting activities in the vicinity of the area just as they are, regardless of other influences, such as climate impacts. So I think, because this is the planning and because it concerns the environment, it's very important that the town government come forward in this case, although the prime minister is now not authorized to tell her what to do here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u28	A respectable president. About the middle of 2018, the head of travel, industrial, and innovation ordered a team of workers who had the intention of initiating a further inspection of the nuclear products of garden farmers. The service group was generally aimed at reviewing the development of electrical costs of gardening farmers and identifying opportunities for development and innovation within the industry. The service group returned their proposals to the Ministry in the middle of 2019, but it seems that there has been little further success. Farming plays an important and complex role in Icelandic society, but in many ways it is an unnew resource. The importance of agriculture, however, does not seem to be reflected in the support of the article or the work environment. This includes: magazines in gardening, but their heavy environments make it difficult for them. High electricity costs are inevitable cohesion of fruits and vegetables. Industrial farmers often struggle with high exchange costs for electricity, and it is important that we protect Iceland's food and food security with loyal support for Icelandic food production, no matter what it involves. Among the measures we have to take is to balance the status of garden farmers regardless of location. Clearly, then, we need to first contribute to greater awareness of electricity prices. This provides a protection for European gardeners and domestic food production. And so I believe we will provide fertile soil for an entire profession to grow and thrive. My request to the highest. Agricultural minister is: Is working on improving progress in electrical power prices to simplify the production and production of their products? What is the situation of the proposals submitted to the Minister after the work force? If jobs are not started, the question is: When can we expect a minister to start and even complete the proposed work group report?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As noted in the inquiry, the staff was appointed by tourism, industrial and innovation, and the work was carried out by that part of the Department of Employment and Development. However, there is the value of farmers'payments on electricity, which I agree with with. A senator being a very important part of the work conditions of this important agricultural growth mitigation, it is clear that the provision of the manufacturer's products depends on the domestic agreements, i.e. agreement on the working conditions of the manufacturers of the horticultural products. A contract of change was signed on May 14, 2020, but the agreement was first added to the garden contribution, 200 million per year, starting in 2020, to the duration of the contract, of which 70 million were added each year to pay especially for electricity. So, according to the contract, there's about 385 million. K., updated every year to pay for electrical energy and climatic sources were guaranteed outright due to lighting instead of subsidies, as per this agreement. Funds pay to the manufacturer according to the use of electricity for greenhouse descriptions. By references, these manufacturers are actually committed direct payments in order to help improve the work environment of the article. But on the ground, I agree with what. A senator that we need to do better than that. We need to set a high goal, in view of the better conditions for the production of vegetables in Iceland. They are the vast number of parishes available in that part of this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u30	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It is important that we protect Iceland's food and food security with the loyal support of Icelandic food production, as we both tithed, the highest. A minister came into it in his reply. Still, we must not lose our sense of urgency. The conditions of gardening farmers can be improved considerably, especially with regard to the cost of electricity costs. What a joy it is to hear a minister say that she plans to take further steps that will help improve the electrical value of garden farmers and to ensure the future of this profession! A gardener who promotes the security of his people in others is to be separated from us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u31	A respectable president. I'm so happy to hear it. A senator is taking the initiative here to put these matters on the program because I believe that it is important that in general about domestic agriculture that we put gardening and gardening into even more foreground than we have ever done. There are especially great conventions in this area that are consistent with both our aims for food security but also the emissions of greenhouse gases and many of the more and more of the 21st century activities and projects that are always ahead of us when faced with the challenges of the 21st century. I look forward to dealing with this aspect of my Ministry and just as much as cooperating with it. That's what a senator's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u32	President. We are here at the beginning of the spring council when a great degree of disease control restrictions have been imposed on the nation, as well as on the operators who run the tourism company, restaurants, cultural activities, etc. This is the highest case today. Secretary of finance to postpone pay days. We are here on huge issues relating to the economic situation of the nation in which there is a lot of uncertainty in these times. But the highest. There's no sign of a secretary of finance either on the steps of the House of Ministers or here at the council on the first day after Christmas break. I'd like to ask the highest. President, what would be the choice of absence? Secretary of finance now in this uncertainty period. It's the highest. For example, when it comes to government funds and economic consequences of the crown virus, is the minister of finance really unnecessary? Doesn't he think he has to stay here?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u33	V.E.G. Secretary of finance is abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u34	V.E.G. President. The president has now informed the highest level. Secretary of the budget is foreign. I'd like to recall that 54 minutes ago, the President reminded us that an alibi was held, as is always done at the beginning of a council meeting. I printed it out. There's one name on it. That is not the name of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson, the highest. Secretary of finance. How is it, Mr. President, that there is a list of non-reflectable alibis that do not reflect reality, which does not even reflect the highest knowledge. A president who suggests the alibi? I think in view of the urgency of the situation, and in view of the fact that since the end of December, we would meet for a meeting that day in January that we have an appointment to find out what the minister is. If the Minister's private business, if the Minister's on vacation, it's an insult.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u35	The President would like to inform us that we have a substitute for the minister of finance, the Supreme Minister. Minister of Foreign Affairs, who will represent the case established by the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u36	President. I realize there's a substitute minister here. But here it is being asked again to resolve matters in such a hurry, in such a narrow time frame that it is to be submitted, measured, introduced, taken into committees, taken for 2 and 3rd. and vote on it on the same day. And the secretary of finance is not even there to answer the questions of the senator's hall and to have a conversation on this matter that is about to be rushed through. I think it's disrespectful to us at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u37	A respectable president. I thank the President that I have kindly informed the council of the Supreme Court. There is not even a financial minister in the country where as important a matter is being discussed as we are here, nor in our country when dealing with huge issues involving the economy of the public and the business. But I'm wondering if it's the highest. The minister of finance is in foreign government or is he on vacation, whether we too can have the highest. To inform the council. Because we have, I think, the right to know if it can be at the highest level. The secretary of finance, who was very limited in the discussion of budgets here for Christmas and between Christmas and New Year, because he was Covid infected, is just considered the National Council of Iceland to be such an insignificant place that he does not have to come here to discuss with the members of the nation and representatives of the public from within the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u38	A respectable president. By Thursday or Friday, when the introductions were received, there were four cabinet ministers away from a government meeting. A third of the government is absent when presenting burdensome measures for a pandemic. Now, the biggest bite. The secretary of the head of shame by being absent when discussing the economic actions of these same limits of infection and the general development of the virus. I feel that we have an obligation to know if it's the highest level. A minister is on private business, whether he is on vacation to relax somewhere in foreign lands during this wave, while a large number of operators are coming in back, or whether he is in some foreign business.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u39	The President is not aware of the urgency of the journey. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u40	Mr. President. I'd like to direct it to the highest. The secretary of state, here on behalf of the secretary of finance, who is absent, as reported, that there will be some connection to the Ministry of finance during this discussion. With all due respect to our powerful minister of foreign affairs, I find it unlikely that the minister could answer questions that concern every detail and go to the depth of the current matter. Of course, it is a great injury that the Minister himself is not here to measure the case, but it indicates that it is considered to be a sort of automate because we are here on January 17 to measure a date due to pay date in January 15. That, by permission of the President, says: It is not expected that pay already provided on due date on January 1, 2022, will be reimbursed. This is an extremely high system view in this case, and it is clearly believed that attendance of the plunger is primarily, not a material discussion. [[Taken out on: right.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u41	A respectable president. I only wanted to get involved in this discussion because I can accept the basics of the views presented here. We senators have called a lot of attention to the general effectiveness of the council when we are talking about this case of Covid. It is not only the economic arrangements or the government's expenses that have to be approved here in this hall but also the preventative measures, and all of that, and I agree with them. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson pointed out earlier about the absence of ministers, e.g. in this large government meeting that was being introduced as highly preventative measures, and so that the financial secretary himself is not here to listen to our indications in the government resistance when it comes to this matter to support the members of the world's worst outages in the epidemic, in the current limitations. I find it shocking that the Ministers in general do not show more respect for the council when it comes to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u42	V.E.G. President. I thought the country was about to rise, and the Senate business was getting better, but this is the beginning of the new year. I think it's very important that we all keep it in mind that we're in service to the public and that we're to share the terms of those who live in the country. We can see that clearly, for example. in Britain, what effect does it have when politicians do not carry it out the way the public does. Now I'm not saying it's the incident right now, but I think we should still look beyond the shores of this country as a warning example. It is quite simply this way, although the minister has a replacement, that if he is in a long distance, he must recall a deputy. It must be a matter of long or short distances - apart from the highest. Financial and economic ministers are not present when the bill is required to be given within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u43	President. Like what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason mentioned them as the first day of pay. I would have understood if the council had been gathered earlier than expected to be here as a replacement minister to answer for the bill, to be organized. But now that we're done, I don't understand. It had been arranged for meetings to fit on January 17th. That's long known. It is so long known, too, that the date of pay was January 15th. If it's so important to finish this bill in one day, why wasn't it important to finish it before January 15? What does that say about the companies who have scraped together funds to pay their dues, even take a loan, who knows? They will not be reimbursed in this regard. I cannot understand this lack of custody of the government. [[The president calls.]] It appears to us repeatedly, over and over again, this shortsighted attitude not to assume that it is a longer epidemic than they have always expected. [[The president calls.]] This bill is an example of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u44	A respectable president. I come up here and take my heart to what has been presented in these subjects. This isn't working. A minister who has these classes to do is too late to bring the case into the council - as has been said on pay day 15 and now it is 17. At the same time that 22,000 people are in isolation and in a suffocation, talking virus, it doesn't even show up. Still, he is offering a bill to improve companies'need to close. It's sometimes so amazing that you always think, " It's the worst thing you can do, but it always gets worse. ' It seems that there is no will for this government to try to change the process so that we can see something ahead, what's going on at any given time. If this bill had so much to do, why didn't the council just come together for the weekend? Maybe then a financial minister could have been here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to recall what the situation was like here a decade ago when government business was in an emergency phase almost all the terms of 2009-2013. Then, just within 24 hours, as required by the council today, we often looked up to the basics of the law, but the ministers were also allowed to do the same. It wasn't because they didn't want to sun up on a pool tray at a lower order or to participate in some international conferences. No, it was simply because they were still. They were told to come. They were told to stay in the hall and to present the issues for which they themselves bear responsibility. Now I can't remember what the political call was, which in his self - discipline, wrote a description of when he came halfway to Cheflavík in the minister car and got the call from Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and was told to get back in the house, that would be a vote. [[The president calls.]] No human could get away with such a thing when an emergency was taken seriously. Away from the highest. A financial minister suggests that the government is not serious with the emergency that we are assigned to the council. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u46	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in public pay standards, insurance laws and requisition laws. I will now review the subject of the bill. The bill contains suggestions aimed at helping companies with a major class II or III activity. Section 4. reviewing restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment, as well as strengthening their area bases. It is suggested to allow the reimbursement of pay and insurance fees on up to two days between January 1 and June 1, 2022. The delay payments should be divided into four pay days from September 15 to December 15, 2022, to meet the criteria of the bill for restaurants that have been restricted during the opening season following a pandemic crown virus. Then the bill suggests that the application deadline for the interviewing procedure before November 2021 is extended to March 1, 2022, and the deadline for applying for requisition for November 2021 was only one month in which the general application deadline, according to the granting of the grant, was published on December 31rd. This delay was explained by the temporary framework of government support in the establishment of a law on resistance grant, which has now been extended to June 30 of this year. Several operators who wanted to apply for the scholarship contacted the Ministry, and, in fact, the existing financial minister, who is fine in these matters, so that it is said here, requesting that the application deadline be extended because an application could not be completed before the deadline came out. You should meet these parties and extend your application deadline, and it is appropriate to be extended to March 1, 2022. A respectable president. This bill is part of government operations that continue to support people and businesses and provide the basis for a powerful resistance after the pandemic crown virus is over. During the past week and weeks, as well as those currently in force, there have been significant improvements in the income of many companies in the catering business, while delaying the pay and insurance fees is aimed at improving the financial status of the operators used in the early 2022. The source covers a period of deadlines within the year, allowing the operators to postpone expenses until later in the year. Estimated extent of off payment during the first six months of the year to the latter part of it, except for about half a billion to 1 billion dollars. and this assessment is based on the extent of comparable schemes between 2020 and 2021 and the share of enterprises in the commercial use of food. The extension of an application period due to an interviewing procedure for November 2021 will have a positive effect on the operators who did not achieve a scholarship application prior to the completion of the current application deadline. Then I'll be working on the bill's impact on the state funds. Substitution of pay and insurance bills results in a delay in the income of the state budget within the year. Remuneration also includes rural remuneration and government funds will finance the segments of the rural community so that remuneration will be transmitted to them at the right time. This means an increase in the financial cost of the state's funds, but the increased resistance of the companies using resources is also expected to increase progress and tax pay later in the year. Thus, the effects on government funds are not fully known, but they are by no means insignificant. The overall effect of the extension of application duration may be expected to be due to at least 40% takeout in November 2021 will not exceed 150 million. K. A respectable president. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u47	A respectable president. A payday for the off payment of pay and insurance fees is today, January 17, and that is today that we are beginning to discuss this bill about another deadline on paydays. In the United States, we support the situation and will pay for the quick but careful treatment of the council. But let's be absolutely clear that this is not a normal economy. This is not the case at the Council. It's not the government, either. We've known for weeks, long before Christmas, that in certain sectors there is a total crisis due to the outbreak and the SEC. A number of companies in the food trade sector have difficulty paying back. We knew this a long time ago. V.E.G. On December 10, the secretary of finance said that there would be a hurrying of the hands to support the restaurant sector, and there would be some specific procedures. What happened next? Yes, the General went to Christmas holiday without presenting any proposed operations, and at the same time, previous treatments were eliminated. This is January 17, and this is all there is, just another delay in paydays. I ask: May we not be sure that it will enter the council, preferably tomorrow or the other, bills about some real support - this is just a postponement - some real support for the operators who fight in the backs of the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u48	Madam President. There are further actions with comparable methodologies but with the changes we consider important to consider and consider where we are now after this time. I expect to give a bill in the government tomorrow, and I hope, therefore, that bill will be published, organized into Congress, and then assigned to the council. But like a dog. A senator's motive is that we have this bill now because it is a one - day day day, and the first day of Congress, which takes further action in the final meters and enter the council in the week for us to discuss and apply to the council. These issues will not be dated the same way this bill did.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u49	Madam President. Thank you very much. For this answer, of course, there are more articles that are dealing with serious business problems, both due to the virus itself and to the limitations that have had to be used for it, e.g. The culture and art, but let's just stick to the restaurant sector when we talk about this bill. Of course, the past few weeks have been very heavy, both now in January and December, and up ahead are the months, all of which are the most difficult to deal with in the restaurant, and we know that people who are involved in this business want to in the longest law, not give up workers. So I want to ask the highest. A minister may not feel that it can be wise now when there are certain articles that are so violent in which the demand is so tight, to restore some form of the partial improvement, though it was only for these unique sectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u50	Madam President. That is true, there are more sectors that are limited to both viral and behavior but also due to the limitations used, often on very short notice. However, the point is that they are aggressive part of the world. A senator mentions, the culture, and so is the event field. What we're looking at is the closing strength and the usefulness in a particular form and a special support for cultural branches. They certainly look to see if there is a basis for extension of the partial improvement, but that may not be the case. Thehelish group of the Board of Directors who have been on the watch for a very long time, and all of this work is going over it now, and we'll take it when it's all taken care of. It's an opinion like what I mentioned before, and we're expecting this week, as it was announced before the weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u51	Madam President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I'd like to introduce to you a few things that are on the bill. It's already in pars. discussed who does not agree with the umbrella to take advantage of this solution, as follows, by permission of the president: ▪ If money is distributed or bought in 2022 or to personal items - and that is what I would like to ask about - within 2022, the assigned owners will exceed their calculated remuneration - they will not agree with the deferral of payment in the sense of this law. Does it mean, then, that those who calculate a price must not exceed the price specified on the tax website? Just as an example, new business is now the highest. Minister of former innovation, under Class B9, who are less than 12 years old, with one or two employees, the criteria are 498,000. If this is the criterion, everyone stops working, so that no more than 498,000 per month can be paid. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of how growth bill will be conducted as regards these deferrals. Will they grow or become fruitless? Then I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is there a company that has a postponement for other solutions offered early? This is what I wanted to ask in my previous questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u52	If I understood why. A senator right - if not, he will repeat it in a second answer - if you are already using a form of resources, you are not included in divorces, it is just the general mischievement that applies, but not even if you are using certain support. In terms of growth, that's what this takes, that postponement is, in fact, fruitless. In terms of the calculated price, there is something I would need to have an opportunity to ask about, the technical aspect, and would like an opportunity to do it and to come up and review the output in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u53	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Been a minister of tourism during the early term and identified the impact of the activities introduced last Friday. Food business, culture and so forth, I'd like to ask, "How long does it count? The Minister justified leaving the local caterers, e.g. is the cost of the government's failure to use the last two years to ensure that the Landspians are in charge of the current project? Don't think it's time we quit this nonsense, chief. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u54	Madam President. This is the subject for a considerably longer answer than the minute I have here. As for when we're in a place where we're supposed to have fewer restrictions and that people can go to a restaurant if they choose to sit there for longer than 9 in the evening, it's certainly a major blow for this part of a job, and he's had to take a lot of action. But with support, we too have responded greatly. Of course, as soon as we get it all together, we want to get back to normal. About the first question why. The senator is the calculated amount of money that you personally give, so that the question is answered here in the Sermon on the Mount.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u55	President. That's exactly what I'd like to ask about the same paragraph. If money is distributed and own items are bought during the year or the assessment of owner within the year goes beyond the calculated price, is it equal to 99% of the calculated price? Let go of it? Half? I can't figure out why it's necessary if it goes beyond that. It wouldn't be more efficient if it wasn't. How does it work? Is there other means of making any other move that would somehow fail our expectations, the government's expectations with this bill? I'm scratching my head at how we're doing this. It's like the highest. A minister mentioned earlier wanted to consult for more accurate answers. Are we talking to ministers in the country over the phone, or are we making a reply? I feel very uncomfortable dealing with matters like this that will be handled by the council in such a short time. There's talk of consultations with the Directorates Department and the Department of Transport and Department of Transport as well, expected on the response and the like, I don't quite know what the Ministry of Prime Ministers was having to do with this. Perhaps it would be normal for them to explain this in some way during the discussion here. But, for example, if it goes beyond the calculated price, why is it some particular reference rather than 99% of that, 50% of that? I don't understand, and that doesn't explain in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u56	Madam President. If I understood why. A senator was just wondering if there was a need for more ministers to answer for the bill because they were consulted. In any case, consultations are made with a variety of departments where the prosthetics are being carried out without their ministers being here. What has to do with rural society is likely to refer to the fact that when pay is postponed, it can affect the response of rural society, and we say here that we are going to take that cost for our rural communities as well and not let their communities get involved with it. In terms of the given fee of the concerned operator, this is all about it, given the calculated pay of the operator, but not the given on the tax website. The guide in this bill is simply what in my mind is quite reasonable and normal, which is just this; the idea that you are not making money and taking strength from a government fund. They are trying to direct these inquisitors and assistance to companies by improving their financial status and preventing them from quitting employees for the position that exists and because of the decisions made by the government and trying to see if companies that do not need such assistance are within the rights. That's why these special things are on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u57	President. What happened at the highest. The minister is that money is not to be paid for, but the wording there is ◯fer in excess of the figure. When we look at companies that have already paid their dues, may we have a delay in the next pay period, if we talk about two days here, can they really pay less in interest than a company that postpones both pay days? Because they may be able to pay off cash at 90% of this calculated price. But the companies who paid their dues now but not at the next time, that's probably a smaller amount, and if they're going to pay 90% of that amount, that's a lot lower. Why is this standard, goes beyond that, instead of just not? It's this interaction where I can't quite figure it out. Why is there a hole in these possibilities rather than nothing?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u58	Madam President. The bill is, in effect, trying to catch the operator who needs this support at best in order to reimburse their cash status and prevent them from quitting staff for this temporary condition. It tries to do so, so those enterprises which are not then the key is not the option. That is why there is an effort to find some reasonable balance between it and technical development so that we are directing the support to where it is most needed. If there is something in this process that could be improved during a judicial committee, it is likely to be something that the committee will consider. But this is the proposal that is born not only from diagnosis but also from work that has taken place until the bill is written by the staff and the Ministry Experts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u59	A respectable president. We'll discuss measures to extend the financial loan line to enterprises that are developing into yet another of the problems of natural disasters and their official disease prevention measures related to them. Keep in mind that a part of the community has not been able to feel this virus. While some have got the virus right in their arms, right in the face, others have been able to work much better around it. Of course, there is a front line in health care, and if we view the economy, it is a business that under no circumstances would have been able to prepare for such a situation. Then I'm not talking about big banks that have valuable bank relationships, loan lines that were easily replaced, or big investors who can raise their own money in the business. I'm talking about a small and medium-sized company, a company run by families in the country, a company where people are usually in personal obligations for debts and businesses in general, people who are losing their food. They are also people who have other jobs, people who have done everything in their power to keep their employees employed but who are now faced in an even further phase of disease prevention that simply no longer may offer such work or by very limited means, so that the rest of us are safer from the process and to defend the progress. A respectable president. The context of these days is as follows: We are now in intensive health care measures primarily because of the health - care system, because of the hospital's situation. Today, two years have passed since the epidemic began, two years in the hospital war effort, and ministers are very diligent in counting the amount of money that flows to the hospital stage in connection with Covid. The financial debate is being heard quickly, and this was also the very thing heard correctly in reply to the highest degree. Prime Minister. However, this is a list of real-time increases from 2017 to 2021 without taking into account population growth, historical funding, or temporary financial resources from Covid. The CDC will finally be paid off, and it's finally been scheduled, after two years, but it hasn't started yet. There are several hundred million. This scan is financed, protective defects and additional expenses for Covid work. People are certainly paid to be on the extra shift. But not what? It's a perfectly self-denial cost. Let's be clear. There is no boasting about living up to the cost of war. Not doing so would make it foolish to do so. The fact is, despite all that the government has to offer, 2 billion dollars is missing. In hospital service, compared with the plans of the Land Hospital to maintain a stable service, according to the financial committee's trust to approve before Christmas. These are not additional projects, this is the cost of aging, as a result of growing. This is the cost taken from the New U.S. Hospital, a pandemic, after years of neglect. Prior to Christmas, a change in the smaller part of a budget bill was proposed to correct this so that the Landsaholic would not be funded with his basic operating into another year's pandemic but was denied. We must all be concerned about this right now. The other point for the context of the items we are discussing here today in this bill is this: We've had a thorough operation since November 12 and we're standing here over two months later, on a set due date, to advance the snare. It is what this is, to extend the snare of public fees for an enterprise that has a close-up service. What's going on? The difficult situation of these enterprises has existed since the beginning of December, in fact, since mid - November. It is then presented with old resources, which may have been submitted this week, and are being considered, as many of them may not work anymore, as if nothing has changed since April 2020, despite the failure of many new companies, restaurants, and so forth, during the outbreak. So in the 2019 year for income loss, exactly nothing means anything. I'm just hoping that's the best thing. The minister of State and the secretary of finance earlier said that it is taken into consideration by team experts at the Ministry of finance. We're somewhere else than two years ago. Will new companies, new restaurants, new tourism companies, modern pandemics, be punished if they have tried to keep seawater ahead? They do not fall under any strength these days or, in effect, in terms of damages. In particular, this is interesting in view of little that has been heard about the partial improvement process. And the highest. Although we have had two months of intensive action, a minister of finance is not confident that he will say so at this point. And although they know exactly what the balance balance status and account status of these enterprises are, they do not trust themselves to claim this now. A respectable president. It is desperate to grab in many small companies. People are losing everything. And it is almost two months later, after a heavy operation, with one bill involved in the continuation of pay. Many of us hoped this would be over; the common people, we in the opposition. But neither do we have all the information. They're on the government board. The government's highest perspective was to know that this situation would be possible and would be ready. We have a powerful P.R. team that examines every possible stage of the disease prevention. But where is the stratospheric analysis of the economic measures for disease prevention? It is considered that this is being examined by a team at the Ministry of finance. Why are we responding later? Why are there no planned plans for this situation after two years? Why is this taking so long? Was the government not simply prepared for continued disease prevention? It may be wishful thinking among us, but it is irresponsible among those who know most of what they do. We've just approved the funding right here in this hall right before the end of the year, where nearly all Covid arrangements were canceled. The budget is shown above, despite the obvious information that repeatedly introduces a meeting of 2 billion dollars. It could be discussed in the business of the Land Hospital. In our smaller parts, we made a special report about this before the end of the year because we realized that this would be an indiscretion under the present circumstances. Now we're back to the same place. It also contained a recession on cultural funds, an additional treasure set up by Covid, which was lost and found to be normal. It wasn't taken out of the way when we suggested that we make some adjustments that it might be too soon. It's been three weeks. In such a situation, there is a real danger that they will be shocked by solidarities and groups, people and businesses in desperation, health, schools, food trade, travel sector, because the resources are too late. People are worried about themselves and about what others are getting because they are not enough to eat. The cost ends by becoming greater as a result of my association. This is the last thing we need right now. I also call attention to it right here at the end of my words that there was an amazing deal here at Christmas to approve 7 billion dollars. injection into the human working sector in the form of taxes discounts, as it may be possible to reduce expansion in the sector later, despite the fact that these restaurants were half closed and many other nearby services were available. We have not been given any answers to what causes this priority. That's a lot of money. A respectable president. It is the responsibility of the government to be prepared for this condition, to be in the right places, to show the right solutions at the right time. You can't have excuses now that people simply don't know what's going on or what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u60	Madam President. Yeah, it's like a snooze. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir said, it's a little late to come with action. For us who watch this, these actions, except for the power of resistance, which are too low, look like a postponement. This is a postponement of the bad things to come. We're actually making a big snowball that we've been pushing before us for two years, and unfortunately, if the wishful thinking that 1.4 million tourists come to this country this year, this snowball will roll over us and be an avalanche. It is essential to address the problems of these people, not just in this sector, but in all the sectors that have had problems with business problems with Covid. But just like what? paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir pointed out to them why we're going to all these finals and all these measures to evict the ziti. Yes, that's because we're not attacking the real problem, which is a designer at the Land Hospital. Why does there have to be a designer there? This is because there have been flights from the health professions, flights to other classes, and flights from abroad. It was noted last year that four of the five nurses quit as nurses within five years of graduation. It was also noted that in the past ten years, some 2,000 health - care professionals had left the country because there are pay and conditions that are not quite good enough. The situation in which people are fleeing is the extreme pressures they face because of the small number of people in the hospitals. And why aren't people ready to come and work there? Yes, it is because the pay is clean and does not qualify for the work being done. The last two times, e.g. Nurses should have had a contract if it had to be done. Also, much has now been said about stress payments. It has become familiar with the fact that I have been working in many parts of the world that we always pay special stress payments in difficult circumstances. In fact, it is standardized by the United Nations which countries are defined as being bad that stress paid for staff going there. However, the salary of nurses or other healthcare professionals should not be corrected. Instead, rather than attack the bleeding, we are ready to put endless money on patches to fix the consequences, stopping the flow from the medical profession. We must stop being politicians and political women just looking at what we know well. We need to look at the real reasons and deal with them even though they are difficult to deal with, even if that means that we need to tackle things like those that really need to be raised. And pointing out what's at the highest is not enough. Ministers did in their reply this morning: We've done this, we've done this and we've done this. - No, you haven't done what you have to do. You've done all sorts of other things, e.g. spend money in private hands to get people from them to work in the hospital, not to pay the people a better salary already in the hospital. We have to stop this wishful thinking. We need to stop these patches and start dealing with the real problems, pay the health - class salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u61	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u62	Madam President. I want here at 1st. on this matter, intended to be completed by Congress, three discussions today, to establish a few things that I think are necessary. A committee that discusses the subject between discussions has special attention. In answer to the highest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs came up with something about 3 mg. 1st g., which says, by permission of the President: If money is distributed or bought in 2022 or the assessment of owners within 2022 goes beyond their calculated return, the continuation of payment will not be accepted in the sense of this law. What I think would be a good idea for a member of a committee party, if not more, is that it's not being attached to the standards given by the tax, which are part of this b-class where restaurant activity falls. There is the calculated payment for a member of his own enterprise with 15 employees or more at a maximum of 1,475,000 k, with up to 15 employees of 1,104,000k, 2576 employees 858,000, 1553 employees, 683,000 and new companies less than 12 months of age, with a total of 1,2 workers of 498,000. At any rate, I think most people are likely to fall off the train if that condition holds that those who run a recent business and call for all the attention the person has to offer should not pay more than 498,000 dollars. There'd be a lot of trouble. But I've had that information from the highest level. Ministers after my answer to this earlier that it is permitted to pay themselves a higher amount, provided that everything will be given as payback. But I think it would be wise for the committee to take a specific look at this issue, and there must be some evidence of how this has been done in previous comparable measures. The following article continues in paragraph 1. The law in the bill, by permission of the President: I don't know what to do, but I don't know what to do with it. 1.mg. they are that pay-payers are not misdeserved by public fees, taxes and tax fines made on one day on August 1, 2021... The report has established that a debt status should be determined as it was at the end of July 2021. It is particularly important that companies who may have been in trouble at that point but who get out of it do not get into trouble on the basis of having had a bad point position by the end of July 2021. But the text of the bill, as it seems to be, is merely a date taken. There's something I think would be wise to do. The committee examined. Then, at the end of the last paragraph, verse 1. ... withauthority of the President's permission: If a subsequent examination reveals that the conditions of a remuneration have not been available, the payer should be put under stress in addition to the amount of cash... In this light, of course, it is necessary that the rules are as clear as possible and that I refer them to the two things I have already mentioned. If those enterprises which will be in late stages evaluated outside the framework of a special fine so that they are under stress, the rules need to be very clear in this respect. Then I'd like to draw attention to 2 st. where it says, it appeared in the history of the highest. Minister, that companies are allowed to apply for a continuation of dues on up to two fees of the market insurance fees on pay days 1, 2022 to and on June 1, 2022. So this is a postponement of payment, not a delinquency in any context. To consider this in some context, there would have been a great improvement because of the highest. The minister of foreign affairs earlier mentioned that more cases were being expected in the coming days, that to some extent, we members of the council were made aware of what was to be expected, on the other hand, of the obvious itself, that there were some effective measures to identify patches on the wounds of certain parts of the industry. I'd like to criticize in what way this is supposed to be. We're high for two years into this epidemic and the highest. A minister was criticized yesterday for a doctor who likes to be in the media for asking questions in the middle of a pandemic. I'm just hoping that God promises we're not in the middle of the epidemic, because it's been two years. Of course, it is a negative view that ministers could not ask questions. I don't know where we've come from if there's a situation, but that doctor's got to have it with him. But it was an outcast. But I would like to criticize that we are here two years into this epidemic, having just decided not to postpone the beginning of a school year in the country, and just a few minutes later the decision is to lock up the whole area, ten people meeting limits. Have they gotten harder at some point? I don't think so. I think this is the hardest thing we've ever seen. At the same time, we watch e.g. That in Spain, the prime minister and health minister of the nation, who are in a much worse position than we are, began calling for the European Union to hand the crown virus, after the ultrasound variant became predominantly flu. V.E.G. A health minister in question earlier said that we were in a very different place in this epidemic that turns toward the ultrasound abnormality rather than to e.g. Spain. It's just that the first analysis of the ultrasound phenomenon met on the same day in Spain and Iceland. If we are not going to learn a lesson from what is happening in the countries around us, we are in a very bad place. We look to that, for example. that at interview today, a psychiatrist stated that it is still at first that we are deciding whether ultrasound is weaker than other forms. Of course, that is not an acceptable presentation. We're making decisions here that lead to the life and death of a lot of companies. I think the government ran into it last Friday, or by the actions that were announced last Friday, whether they were nervous, or whether the record of a desist was presented in a way that was somewhat like in the Icesave case - the only thing that made Iczave two bearable to consider was the comparison with Icesave alone. Of course, if the procedure that was new from the needle, as it has been described, was designed to be protected by the most insane proposal that has been made since this epidemic broke down two years ago, the most insane proposal that has been made when there is not much going on - we see that the number of people in ICU is completely constant, those that are more successful in respiration. No, they lock it all up. Then we're here in some emergency operation to react afterwards to allow companies to, most kindly, to meet up with quite extraordinary number of conditions, to postpone two pay days. For those who were so unfortunate that they had already paid for it on the usual deadlines of every 15 months, this article is specifically listed here by the President: It is not expected that pay already provided on due date on January 1, 2022, will be reimbursed. So it is the day of hire that is being discussed here today and that is for today on the basis of what is traditional for January 15 of our Common Era. The current payment on due days is not expected to be due for reimbursement. It's an overexhaustible system thought, completely overexcited. How are those who wrote this bill - because I trust it to the highest. The secretary of finance has not done so during the holiday period abroad, so it must have been the employees of the Ministry of finance who wrote this text - to know in what way their business capital flow is paying on due wages in the belief that they were required to do this in a traditional way and to deliver their money? These may be companies that would be needed most because in all this rule of work there is such a great deal as not to be dropped or that an agreement made to the tax authorities is held up by ten. Although time is running out and it should be completed today, it would be desirable if it were. A financial committee would agree to think of some understanding of how these things actually work in business in such a difficult and unpredictable environment as the government is offering them today. Because the action taken on Friday afternoon - I'm afraid it's only a few days before the government realized that they're completely out of their way and back, changing the subject. In this light, of course, all related actions will be examined. But I wish. A committee of good results in trying to present views in this committee party that explain the points that are unclear, for it really matters in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u63	President. I think this bill is a crystal clear example of the self-imposed hell that the government has committed in recent times and much longer than this epidemic has been going on but definitely during its time period. It is described in an endless state of uncertainty. At the beginning of a epidemic, the government delayed the development of its financial plans, which should provide just the security of a government. At the beginning of the epidemic, we spoke of responding equally. Everyone expected this to be a short epidemic, this one wave, but not that it would be the two years and more, even as there is a possibility. Good-bye. But we're supposed to put our safety first in this regard and expect a pessimistic stage, but that's not done. It was not expected that if it got worse, there would be some kind of operation plan. It's always being dealt with as soon and too late as this bill. It is predictable that once government is limited, it will create a problem in the partners that are affected by restrictions. It is predictable, and there has obviously been wishful thinking throughout this period that the effect would be small that nothing had to be done. It is obvious in this bill that once again they are expecting and that wishful thinking is not going to come true. That characteristic of this bill we are dealing with today is another factor that really causes all the problems we now face. The systems that should be able to cope with this condition have been undermined. Of course, not at the beginning of the epidemic when vaccines and the virus were more severe, but now there are very large questions as to whether severity is high enough to justify their expectations if the health system could deal with the consequences. That is exactly what we learned about whether the health system could have dealt with the consequences of the present wave if these systems had not been undermined for many years. That's a big question we have to ask ourselves, because it's going through all the career I've been on a budget that's repeated financial resources. It repeatedly identifies the very flaws that cause this inadequacy. But no, it's a flat retreat. Let's not worry about it because it's somehow such a responsible financial policy to be careful to keep our security systems just right, so that they crawl, even painfully, as we are familiar with an old discussion about people lying on the streets and the likes of the clinics. Naucoma means that we cannot cope with stress. There are examples of this in many parts of the world. The energy system in the United States was e.g. It was designed so that they could deal with it when one and one part of the distribution system fell down. The rest of the distribution system was then able to handle the rest, to receive the pressure. But as soon as two pieces fell down, everything collapsed. What we're dealing with now is that because of this mental attitude, we don't have enough time to cope with the pressures we now face, so we have to suffer the limitations that I think the health system should be able to deal with, but we cannot because of our ability to deal with our problems. Here we have a government available to finance corporate rescue measures rather than health prevention. There's nothing new about this. It is shown that nurses are unable to get a collective contract, have now had to undergo two consecutive procedures. The midwives had trouble dealing with their collective agreements, and this is an escape from the ranks of the orderly. It's just an encore. The only class that may have managed from collective agreements ended up with a powerful propaganda machine behind it, not necessarily in the negative sense of that word, not at all. We need to think about how we want to use the safety nets we have so that we can deal with an emergency. We expect emergency measures to be taken from time to time. And what does that mean? This does not mean that we expect that there will be need, of course not. That means when an emergency occurs, we know what to do. We know we're supposed to make stage shots about, for example. positive results are not yet expected. The government expected a certain development of this epidemic and intended to react equally. In fact, plans failed, and the same routine was always being used. It was not based on any basis or basis for a pandemic activity, normal epidemic life as normal as it can be, but it is constantly taking some pendulum game back and forth with limitations, relaxation, limitations, and relaxation. One of the most severe restrictions in this epidemic has just been established and has already begun to talk about compromise. It is being put on tremendous restrictions from certain members of society where infection is not necessarily a problem while there is no restraint in areas where it seems to be spread, in schools and play schools. This may not be serious because children are less likely to be affected if there are serious cases in their case, but then everything is open and the government does not explain to us in sufficient detail why this priority is going on. Why do bars and clubs need to be closed? Is the problem really there? Is it really going to solve this spread problem and the number of infections that can help the health system in the present state? I have no idea. I don't see any particular reason for that. I can only see the appearance of taking some action, that there are such sedatives: we are doing something. But when you ask and push: Wait, forgive, why are you doing exactly this? In that case, the answers have not been exactly any of these two years. We keep asking, "I'm sorry, why do you choose these actions instead of anyone else? " And the answers have never been on hand. Never. This is the core of this bill we deal with here, the result of all that is systematically undermined by the security institutions that are supposed to take care of our health. There is a lack of forethought, a lack of organization that makes us need a bill that somehow saves everything, or doesn't save, it postpones the problem until the latter part of this year with the hope that it will work so well in the early part of the year that the companies may be able to pay all of this, hopefully without more problems. I don't know. This may not be enough, and perhaps this delay will simply become an enormous headache under normal circumstances in the latter part of the year, and it will have to be solved somehow differently than by distribution on four due days. We have no idea if that would do us any good, what the analysis is behind that. Is it me to assume that four paydays are enough? Is this based on past experience with the use of this strategy? Was that enough then? We're probably not, because we're still having an epidemic, and it's still the same thing. I don't know how governments operate. I just don't get it. After two years of this shortsighted shit, we're still in it. We're still in: Let's group up against the bill in one day. This can be done for companies who have due taxes, but it is not possible to round up the council in an effort to provide care for the management problem at medical institutions, such as the National Institutes of Health. with a proposal earlier today to simply pay a higher salary for a little while, in an effort to bring in all these people in other health systems, try to call it back in a short time. There are some back patrols and such, but the pressure is so intense that we need just one part of the system to fall and the rest of the working. We need two, three, four parts to fall out, and the system is not under pressure. That is how we need to think about how we are dealing with a crisis, how to distribute enough stress so that it won't burn out and leave us in some ruin when this epidemic finally ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-01-17-20.u64	A respectable president. It is our stand on the council that we will support the progress of this matter in a rapid, successful, and reliable way. But I would like to understand some of the viewpoints that are needed here. You had that feeling when they were reporting the hard preventative measures now during the days following the weekend, i.e. Now, it would be time to introduce some slightly more recent financial and economic packages to those who are in a state of pain than is true today, for what we are doing today in this case is no other than to postpone a particular problem. We're not dealing with any problem. We're not making up companies, we're postponing pay, and everybody knows what that means. That means that it will come later on on days of debt. This in itself is an excellent option if there is something more involved, which now seems to be a rather long way to be introduced compared to all the opportunities the government has had for it. I'm just saying this with a reference to what is presented in the report itself on this matter. It says: ▪ Since mid - November has been in force in terms of extensive restrictions on the activities of restaurants allowing alcohol companies, shorter opening times, and severely limited maximum number of guests in space. In other words, this has been going on in one way or another for more weeks, for some month. As a result, it must be possible to ask that only a more long - term approach follows that. Government goes every time. Now, I have no doubt that in the government, people in general are well pleased, since restaurants and restaurants and things like that are going well. Well, it's only the benefit of society that it is. There are a number of people who live their lives up to the fact that these places are going well apart from the fact that this is, of course, a way for us to enjoy the company of friends and acquaintances and to make us happy. Since all of this is limited today in a great way as we know it, surely action is necessary. But like the words that I quoted in my report, there has been room for room to create some kind of plan for long periods of time so that such persons can work with a degree of prejudicialness, at least ... moreforeignity than is now, and more forethought than the government has ever offered. You feel like you're always getting close, so the next week must be the last week of the epidemic, that we're getting away from an angle. However, it is only a few days ago that a psychiatrist made it one of the cases that the government had to evaluate for a government meeting to provide a curfew. This tells us quite a story about where we are in this epidemic, and it is not advisable to be always looking to one week or two weeks at a time, waiting for action in hopes that a better time will soon come, for that has not been the case. Although all of us allow ourselves to be hopeful, we do not know how long this situation will last. I'd like to quote the words of Bragi son of Skaftason, who runs three restaurants in Reykjavík, on the news of the days. He was talking about a postponement of two days' pay, but he's a very small part of the whole. He is quoted in a report that after two years of limitation, the pay to drag down the restaurants refers to what was done at the beginning of the epidemic. I here quote his words directly, by permission of the president: Then came a very good path, which I just want to see the state repeat. There was a part-time improvement for a company that's going to get so fucked up in it. I've got a lot of employees who have my full salary and have nothing to do. I haven't had to give up staff yet. When I don't say I've just wanted to. I'm on my side, I'm looking at this as a team of co-workers who are experts in their profession. But if the situation continues to be as bad as it is now, and the State is not going to meet us more than is being proclaimed, if the pay force is not somehow darker, then we just need to start looking at the situation. This is the most serious situation in companies that have to be restricted, and there are a lot of them, not just the sector we are considering right now, but, of course, more businesses and households for the epidemic. I miss the fact that the government doesn't keep some of these measures going, as long as there's some limitations to be taken into account. Suppose this situation continues for another month. Suppose there is a new variation, or that the epidemic will continue in some way that it did not exist after any month or other, that people, homes, businesses, and all directors know that the government is at least Ready, because you can, of course, pick up the rock package tested here at the earlier stage of the epidemic. There's a lot of paths out there that the Council accepted and proved successful. These measures can be continued. It is possible, and I'm going to allow myself to think aloud because I think that those who work in the restaurant, for example, deserve that we have all the possibilities, to have some regular work to do, saying that if the epidemic goes to a certain stage and it has to harden the limits in a certain way, and they know in advance, certain measures on an offer available for those who are in business. It may get us out of the position we are in here today, i.e. that we've been waiting for the last government meeting, for a few days, after the government introduces some resources, and then it's just a certain delay of paydays, but it's not gone any further, what the restaurants are, so we take them as an example, have been calling them after months. That is the way it has been, and that will no longer be the case for some time. So I'd also like to make it a subject, because we're talking about this in a broad context, that the barkeepers have been pointing out that these narrower restrictions that close the most or the most of their activities really does nothing but move a certain behavior, i.e. Those who had made a happy day in a saloon simply move to another place that may be open because there is only another kind of business there, but it is possible to sit down and enjoy association with friends, acquaintances, and family. There are all kinds of paradoxs based on the information that can be held here and at the same time. I just want to say, we no longer have, almost two years into the epidemic, thinking about this wave as the last or the last week, even as the last one, or when the current human meeting limit and trials expire, we must relax. We'll simply be at least to expect and send out a message to people who are currently in business and are being busied because there is some kind of delay in action waiting if this week is not the last, if these actions are due to a longer period of time. Then the government can be encouraged and directed to her that she too is more concerned with the culture that is a different sector that has become very heavy in all the horrors that have been going on over us in this situation. I would then very strongly agree with what has been going on in this discussion, and, of course, we have to support ourselves and it is that we are in these measures, we are discussing this issue here today, simply because humans have not been able to do it, despite many challenges, despite the fact that funds have been injected into the hospital to some extent by specific measures, thus providing the hospital with more access to the epidemic so that we can eliminate these limitations. Of course, there is a big problem here, and there is good reason to review it every time we discuss something related to the epidemic in this room. The inability of the government to ensure that the hospital can carry out its role even if there is increasing stress because of an epidemic is why we are pressing on to the rights of people. That's why we're limited to meeting freedom, meeting freedom, meeting freedom, employment freedom, and all the things we're talking about here, but I don't think there's any sense at the council that we can talk about except for being polite when things get in here. I'd like to finally say that we back up here support the outcome of this situation. However, this must be part of much more extensive support measures to the groups we are dealing with, the companies and the operators underneath. It takes much more than that. We're just pushing the problem to the second half of the year. We're not dealing with him. We're not throwing him out of the table. We're just a little bit, like I think one of them. A senator has discussed it earlier, extending it to the hanging chair. In due time, the companies here will be prepared to obtain a much more efficient and more realistic way of dealing with the current business problem because the government has said: "You need to shut down. You're going to have to get paid. You'll have to set sails while we're on this. This company and these operators deserve to be gone beyond what is being done in this case. I'mlanding that while we stand here for this matter to be accomplished, of course we call for greater support to these companies.
