ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u1	Borist has a letter from Ardíi Anna Kristínardóttir Gunnarsdóttir, 11th of them. Smoke. So, that she can't do any Senate work in the near future. Thus, Elísa Þórðardóttir, Thordddddddóttir of the Council, 3rd of the party's list in the district, but 1st and 2 strategist on list has announced an understatement.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u2	At the request of the president, the national government has issued an announcement based on 1 mg. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! An election to Sara, Þórðardóttir Thordd's daughter. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been called upon to discuss the vote and the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u3	V.E.G. President. The European Commission has received a report on the election of Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir as the 3rd district member of Porrata, in the south of Reykjavík. The committee has been meeting to discuss the election and its votes, and the committee recommends unanimously with the confirmation of the election by Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u4	The board of directors recommends a unanimous vote against Þórðardóttir Elísa Thordddddótttir and considered it acceptable without a vote if no objections are made. Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir, who has once taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u5	The President has received a letter from the Minister of Justice asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a request for this request. 939, on prevention and response to vegetation, from Gísli Ólafsson. A letter has also been received from a social and workforce minister where you request every time to provide written answers to the requested questions. 868, about the switch between the service candidates by professions, from the Oddný G. Harðardóttir, to the river. 636, on the decrease in pension incomes due to the payment of special savings, and covering. 469 of measures to facilitate access of foreign specialists outside the EEA, both from Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson. Social and workforce minister has also requested deadlines to provide written answers to the following questions from Andrés Ingi Jónsson; i.e. 337, on the recognition of cross-border diagnosis, on the basis of thaw. 543, the Ministry's responsibility for violence and its consequences, and finally, on the threshing floor. 874, on validation of the approved International Work Programme No. 190 on action against violence and harassment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u6	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, over the length of a conference, suggests that a conference can last longer than what the Senate puts out of it. A vote for the proposal is requested and will be applied as soon as a vote for a variant will be elected here after the unsubstantiated queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u7	To answer, Prime Minister, Food Minister, Minister of Culture and Business, Social and Employment Ministers, University, Industrial Ministers, Ministers of Justice and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u8	Mr. President. The chairman of the Red Cross says that we are here taking up a foreign policy that becomes more severe in Europe, pointing out that refugees are discriminated against according to their background. We saw this course in the last week when it came to the highest level. Minister of Justice to stand to speak to 300 people in Greece. This happens at the same time as the need for hard hands has increased here in the country because of increasing tourist currents. We need people, and the government intends to send over 300 people. There is a 22 - year - old somber girl who serves as a volunteer at the Red Cross, whose fate awaits a terrible one in Greece. There's also a Palestinian who's been here for two years working for travel services and his employer doesn't understand why the government intends to send him out of the country. Each member of this group has his own unique history but the highest. The Minister of Justice spoke only of an illegal stay, such as being on the road of criminals, not of refugees, those who have done nothing but try to break out of inhuman circumstances. When asked, it's at the top. Prime Minister on an interview at visi.is that we need to look at the big picture in this and then blame the lack of a full conference in the seminary. These 300 people now facing deportation are in trouble now, at the highest level. Prime Minister, and they are not benefiting from an overall conference that no one knows what is and that no one is doing. The question is simple: Will the highest. ▪ Prime Ministers to make it necessary for the people who have stayed, worked, and settled for a considerable period of time, but are they now going to be assigned to Greece to have a permit?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for recording these cases. There are three things I would like to mention because there were three points he entered in his inquiry. First of all, Iceland is claimed to be heading for the fiercest immigrant and refugee policy in Europe. I cannot help but strongly protest it when we just consider developments in recent years, in which more than ever have just been received, more than ever, more than relatively more also of those who have applied. If we compare ourselves to film in the North, Iceland has had a much more liberal policy where members of this facility, which is still so strong. A senator makes publicity, stored in closed camps before being sent abroad. We now hear reports from Denmark, where Denmark has in mind helping people with international protection for Rwanda, the same arrangement that the British have introduced. So I must say against it in the first place. A senator claims this in his inquiry. Second, the question is: Do some have special rules? Likely, then, it is witnessing to people who are looking for people from Ukraine, whether or not they are in value for other rules about them and other refugees. Of course, in view of the fact that now more than 1,000 people have requested international protection from Ukraine, and the circumstances in Europe are very special, that special measures have been taken, and I would like to mention a special welcome station in Domus Medical, temporary action due to the acceptance of children at school. There are no special rules for rights and service to individuals of one nationality or nationality, but it took action to deal with unprecedented numbers. Then for this group now. I emphasize, of course, that these are individuals. This is not a uniform group. There are different circumstances. I do know, however, that they are supposed to have been waiting here for Covid. I haven't heard that yet, but I know that the Ministry of Justice is getting some information about whether they're sending people to Greece at the moment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I haven't had it confirmed. But I feel that it is very important that we look to the circumstances before such decisions are made. [[The president calls.]] I'll find out in later on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u10	Mr. President. Of course there is. Here, for example. Being supporting children of one ethnic background, they were much more supportive than others. It just needs a special explanation. But I'd like to ask the highest. In her comments on the bigger picture, prime minister put it better. Is the big picture of accepting a foreign bill. Minister of Justice who still has the resources of refugees? Is it possible to put 300 people out of the country to Greece in a situation that is considered uncertain by humanitarian and human rights groups? V.E.G. Prime Minister did not answer the first question. Will it take special advantage of this 300 - man group that has taken root here? And if it's the highest. The prime minister has time for them, too, to ask if she supports a foreign bill. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u11	Mr. President. Because of what? According to the information I have received from the highest level, a member of the body of elders specifically asks for this imminent disfellowshipping. Minister of Justice, a greater proportion of those involved in the protection of other European countries, including 80 in Greece. I have requested information as to whether any other European country is sending to Greece under the circumstances, because it is one of the points that the situation there is insufficient, and I have not been able to answer it. I think it is important that we carefully examine such matters before such decisions are made. But because of him. A senator asks me about my overall policy development then I just want to point out that I have been lacking, and I think, still, that we - after agreeing on the laws on the affairs of foreigners that were approved in great agreement, have regularly been responding to various criticisms that have come up, including, in the past. with an alteration in the treatment period, etc. - take action to shape us up a course based on these laws. [[The president calls.]] I know it's the highest. A social and workforce minister is preparing such policies and it is clear that the implementation of these laws has not been fully satisfied. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u12	Mr. President. V.E.G. The prime minister has now formally declared support for Finland and Sweden's membership at the Atlantic Community, NATO. But he's got the highest support. So the prime minister is in Iceland in NATO?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a question, hoping to give a explicit answer. I support the democratic conclusions established by the National Assembly of Finland and Sweden on applying for involvement in the Atlantic Community and as prime minister, I work under the approved national security policy of Iceland's membership in NATO. But my movement, and including me, has not changed my opinion of that segment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u14	Mr. President. That's right, the highest. According to a minister, there is now much to share in the Councils of Sweden and Finland, but it is also, and has long been, much more for membership here at the General Assembly. So it's something special, in the highest opinion. A minister who is different in those countries now wanting to enter there after spending decades outside of NATO? Here is a democratic will to be in NATO, and it matters what the government, and especially the government, says of its involvement, whether he supports it. It would be strange in Finland or Sweden if the prime minister of these countries were opposed to being a member but would still be inclined to apply. Tells you the highest. The prime minister of Iceland has no time to wonder whether circumstances now simply do not call for the highest. Minister of Ministers is supporting Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Union?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u15	Mr. President. When I took up my current office, in 2017, it became clear that I would work under the approved national security policy at the General Assembly, which was adopted by a large percentage of the votes. I believe I have been faithful ever since. Of course, I have been asked about it internationally, especially at the scene of the Atlantic Community, and I allow myself to say that I have not been given any comment on how I have walked there faithfully, with the approval of the greater part of the General Assembly on a approved national security policy. So I don't think that there is a special call for changes in the internal work of the left green, but the movement's platoon agreed, and repeated it when we went back into government society, that they supported me in the policy of working according to an approved national security policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u16	A respectable president. A few weeks ago, the Supreme Court finally confirmed that the severe housing impairments that had long been common to pensioners were nonsurrectionable. Naturally, many expect to be reimbursed because of these poorly damaged farms. Unfortunately, the state is not going to pay it all back. The government intends to hang themselves to the point that despite the results of testing, those who were not courting are not entitled. It is only possible to pay compensation to pension recipients due to minor housing failures during the past four years, but not to the overall period. Refer to the expiry layer, for no longer can be carried out. The one who appealed to the matter is able to pay more in time than others. The importance of the test here is reduced. From now on, it will be necessary for everyone to sue together even if a test case is sufficient to break the expiration date. Is that really better? In effect, the government is saying to the victims that each member of them would have had to file a case a decade ago to protect his rights and tests. There is a significant decrease in human rights, as judicial cases are costly, and it is important for less income groups to have the same standards by making sure that a test case is followed. Let me remind you that the case was originally appealed to 2016. In the summer of 2020, a court of law condemned an illegal setting of habitats, and that conclusion has not been unsettled. It is therefore a spontaneous and normal requirement to refer to the expiration of all required pensioners in this respect, to break when the test case was appealed and not to come back until the Supreme Court judgment fell. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister. This is the worst set people in the country that hardly has before food. That's 13 years off. I can't see that the government can defend itself on a four-year rule because if it lasts 13 years, it's time to pay 13 years. There is nothing else that can stand. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will she see to it that she is fully paying these people?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. The sentence given was about permission to calculate pay for microenergy pensioners because of a special pension process at the length of the country's population. The sentence fell like a dog. A candidate described, and in short, it was the highest. A social and employment minister who takes this party changed the Regulation two days after the conviction struck, and the immediate action was taken. All will be paid on the new Regulation and without these limitations. Then, in the government, a social and workforce minister introduced that it would be reimbursed to a period of four years which is the standard expiration date, i.e. Four years from the due judgment, and this work is being done in time. I see why. A senator may feel inadequate. However, there is an expiration date, as it is defined, and that is an example in other matters. This is an essential requirement for a social and workforcer to reach this conclusion. I think, if we're just looking at this case, this decision was given that was important, the trial period is relatively short for the Supreme Court, as I am told, and will respond immediately after the fall of the sentence, which may be the most important thing in all of this. I understand that we can debate how far we should go back, but there are rich grammatical reasons for this decision. Social and employment secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answers, but I don't believe my ears. I don't believe it. I can't believe we're really going -- what's a government fund to say? Doesn't he have a problem with this? Is it too expensive? Is it too costly? It's the worst set people in Iceland who's been robbing for 13 years. The treasure of the Kingdom says, "No, listen, we only pay four years. Let's go in the penitentiary. Reasonable compensation is being paid far back because of bad treatment of people. It's fair money, and I'll never believe that the government's fund and this government is going to go down so low that they won't pay the full price. These are not large amounts. Maybe it's something like what? The sales of Iceland Bank. I don't know how much this is. But if the treasure of the kingdom thinks it is his need to depart from this people, the worst of the people in the land, that it is the widest banks, I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u19	Mr. President. In order for me to be specific, I feel that it is important that the matter is actually reversed, not that it has been broken, but that there is a need for correction on the part of the Regulation. Hv. A senator here talks about the cost and according to the information I have from a social and employment minister it costs 2.5 billion to pay back four years. It is important that they speak well. It is important in this case to the highest degree. The minister responded immediately, the Regulation was changed immediately, it was published that the time would be returned, but I don't think we should lose sight of the fact that the big task now, and I think we should do so. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson agree on this, that is to achieve a change in the system itself to the future. Of course, it's the task we should be looking at now because it is so long time to achieve a more just and more beneficial system for this group that I think the government has shown by which it was. A senator mentions this, both during the last term, by reducing the declines, the plans that have been published in the financial program now to provide additional opportunities for flexible jobs, as well as by the latest measures aimed at improving the situation of inflation. [[The president calls.]] We have truly shared this group, but I believe that there is a critical argument for the four years as the highest. Minister has introduced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u20	Mr. President. The government is in a campaign against certain refugee groups. They regularly show this by means of a foreign bill specifically directed against those who have received a approved application for international protection in other countries, such as the people who are fleeing the broken defense system of Greece. But there is absolutely no guarantee of international protection in Greece. We know that people in that position live on the street, they're at the end of the line when it comes to housing, employment, education for their children. They are exposed to discrimination and violence every day. This is the responsibility of the Icelandic government whenever they return people to Greece. This is no new news, but it has been pointed out for years by experts and human rights groups. Now they plan to keep busy by directing nearly 300 refugees to this position from Iceland. Asking about this Iceland record in deportation has been said to the minister that the law is being carried out. However, laws are the work of members of Congress. What can we do? A general council could, e.g. changes in law to allow special treatment for the refugees who have been trapped for two years because of a crown virus epidemic. In fact, there we have an example in a bill set by Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the senator, for the 2017 election. In fact, a minister could put only a Regulation which defines the situation for a pandemic crown virus as a special situation and thus may be permitted to provide asylum to all those whose situation in this country has extended. You see, just one piece of pen is needed to intervene. You don't need more than one piece of pen to get greater human sensitivity. Now, as the Minister of Justice prepares to fill some aircraft with refugees, starting the largest and most unpleasant mass violations of Iceland's history is bent on asking why. Rules can be changed to control this group. [[The president calls.]] All it takes is one dash of pen, all it takes is political will. [[The president calls.]] Why is this not done? Is this what the government all wants to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u21	A respectable president. It is important to bear in mind that the protection system is entering an agreement between countries on the definition of refugees who are in grave danger for some reason. It is a rule between us and most other European countries that if people have been protected in another country, they are not applying for protection elsewhere. So we are not in general separating ourselves from other countries that we compare with when we send people out of the country. The treatment given here is more extensive and more extensive and occurs in many countries around us, where people have concluded that they will withhold protection from others. On these grounds. It must be kept in mind that the first thing that happens is at the administrative level by law, through the Foreign Institute. People can then appeal to the decision - making committee of foreigners. It is after such a procedure that the people have both a progressive and a law - trained speaker at their side in the whole process that people have stayed here if they don't leave the country. It's true that there's been a good one for a third hundred people. I guess it's just 270 people. In general, because of the refusal to perform a so-called PCR test, deportation has not been possible. That is when this group has been gathering up, and now the state is dropping this check on its borders. A general body can certainly change this. The General gave us rules, and according to them, we are working in the whole process. It is then Generalis to change them if they wish to perform other procedures.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u22	Mr. President. Listening to the highest is always the same. A minister may speak as if there was something different about refugees not underconceiving a medical examination to be turned out to the god and sea. Here it comes again. Of course, people refused to do PCR tests as they have the right to the law, the law that the Minister urges us to change. The protection system is set up to make sure that candidates for international protection get somewhere in their material treatment of applications rather than between applications. It was not set up to be abused, as is done by the Icelandic government, to send people to the first part of the country and to say: Greece, you deal with it. So we don't know what we're talking about. Greece has been sending out a distress call for years because it cannot handle the project. Where is the arrangement with the Greek government at Ministers? The law also speaks of the need for effective international protection when referred to another State. [[The president calls.]] Will the minister really want to stand here and tell us that the defense system in Greece can offer effective international protection? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then he contradicts all experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u23	A respectable president. That there is some different viewpoint to ask people to have a PCR test - we don't have a forced resource in our law today, as many other countries do where this is being done under conditions. In fact, experience in countries where this requirement exists is particularly challenging. Yeah, you're right about what you're doing. A senator, a respectable president, is that the reservation is designed to bring escapes to court, and that is exactly what happens in Greece. Regarding the fact that Greece sent out a distress call and failed to cope with the problem, it is not the Greek government's assessment because the Greek government is accepting these people and is working well to resolve the problems of those who are looking for them. At least that's according to the information I got. It's just going quite well and fast in Greece to resolve the cases of those who go there for protection when appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u24	Mr. President. It's been interesting to observe the discussion here today, especially answers to the highest. Prime Ministers who excuse bad flight policies by making the policy even worse in other lands. This lack of ambition is sad, and that is not appropriate for us. They're missing a whole set-of-the-art policy in the seminary, they're told. However, it lies in the nobility laid before the council by the government. It could hardly be that they should be accepted and tightened with the policy just to take a U-turn later and then move on into human paths first. These three groups have served together for almost five years. The result of that cooperation is ever more severe and inhumanity toward children and families in flight, as we see repeated in the media, over and over again. It stands to throw nearly 300 people out of the country, and much of this group ends on the streets in Greece in circumstances that are completely unacceptable, as we know. This image can be mixed up and put into a variety of trapezes in the damp, but on the ground it's very simple. Most of us are family members, children, siblings, and parents. The questions we need to ask ourselves are simply: Would we like to be sent out to a god and full of help in Greece? Would we personally want our children to be torn out of a safe environment and sent to situations where insecurity is absolute and hardly sheltered? No, we wouldn't accept it. Why, then, are we willing to send other people's children and other families into situations that we would never personally do? We have no obligation to do so. It just takes a political will not to do that. That's why I want to ask the highest. Social and workforce minister and backup model VG how can he justify it to himself to send other people into situations that he would never bring on himself and his?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u25	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Today's debate has come to the conclusion that this is one of the harshest foreign policies in the North countries and even in other lands. Then I ask myself, " Why is what the Icelanders have now done since 2018?'Then I remind myself of the fact that Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the daughter, succeeded as prime minister in 2017, over the years, received more and more people, so much more than hundreds. That's a good thing. Still, you have to rely on the fact that this is being done less than any other country or country. The numbers speak for themselves. Senator. We can also go to the stitches to see if this is a more aggressive foreign policy or becoming as hard as it is going on in the North countries, as it is. correspondent in Denmark As the prime minister did well earlier, that does not hold any conclusions. We can also see what changes the Icelandic government is making now by moving to services to people who are looking for international protection from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs. That's a positive change. Senator. That is a very positive change because we can cooperate with the ministry and can be welcomed more fully. And what have we been doing, this government? What have I put before myself as a social and employment minister, this few months I've been in that office? Yes, getting more people from Afghanistan, for example, as we're putting our arms around women who are unique, who live in a reality that we can't even imagine. It's also policy, huh? Senator. I could mention here to receive especially sensitive groups within the Ukraine group, such as disabled people and sick people. I can't sit here under those words of the senator. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u26	A respectable president. V.E.G. Only a minister needs to be subject to what is said here in the General Court of Staff. You can quote the reviews of the Red Cross and humanitarian organizations regarding the policy of the government of this case. It can be done repeatedly, over and over again. You can quote the words of the highest. The prime minister who recently said that we should always listen to what the Red Cross says and to a humanitarian organization. Then when these sources come to pass on matters that the government is putting before the council, it's an endless dropout. V.E.G. A minister did not answer the question about the nearly 300 people who were standing to send away insecurity, from safety to harshness, how he can justify himself offering these people a situation and a choice that he would never offer himself and his people. How could he, as Minister of VG, sign that policy should be the highest priority? Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u27	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again resists. I have a good relationship with a group of members, including the Red Cross. I haven't heard from them that it is a function of offering special groups from Afghanistan to this country or special groups from Ukraine that I mentioned here in my case here. I'm not going to argue that the situation in Greece is bad. I will not. Do the circumstances of those present need to be checked to send away? We may need to, but we must not forget that we have some rules, and these people have gone through those rules, and that was the result. But if there's anything in these matters that needs to be considered better, I'm not going to rule it out. However, the case is the custody of the Minister of Justice, and I refer to him for any further inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u28	A respectable president. A study at Hallorm Standards School is based on theoretical practical and methodical knowledge about resource and raw potentials, guided by sustainable development and innovation. A study of sustainability and creation is a study of 60 Units at a fourth stage and is taught as an additional high school education, which corresponds to the first year of college. The study is accepted by the Ministry and published in Government News. The school strives to get a doctor - trained professional director who directs the school, along with a number of experts who visit the school that comes from employment, connects innovation and sustainability, other universities and pioneers. The school is on the move and has added summer work to secondary secondary secondary education in high school schools as well as to get students of university research and development projects made up of students of the New World Translation Fund. It is important to be able to provide high school teachers with the opportunity to take full - wounds into sustainable development and creation as part of their master - level reeducation by providing them with the theoretical and practical knowledge of resources and raw materials in sustainable and creative ways of teaching. A number of students showing interest in Hallorm High School have already completed basic education in college and want to take the study as part of a master's course; foreign individuals and pioneers with certain business ideas; as the study has already received a lot of attention abroad; and now last through a Erasmus project on ◯Post Human Architeography in Álaborg, a university university in Slovakia, Italy, and in Sicily. At the same time that the Hallorm Park School is moving forward and shows both the will and ambition to become a university, a management contract with the school remains unchanged since 2017, a decrease in budget compared to the pay raise in recent years, and a general increase in raw materials and services. So the question is, Who and how can be decided that Hallorm School could teach at a university? [[The president calls.]] What's the process? How is the assessment made, and where is the decision made?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. This is a very important study of subjects with great interest in many countries. The Hallorm School was recognized as a private school in high school of 2021 and taught, like a boy. A senator refers to a fourth stage of prowess defined as secondary high school education. Such an end to study is not considered to be a university degree. An example of the end of this fourth stage of learning is e.g. The master of industry and other parties. How is the decision that a high - school school student may be moving to a college - or - the - course course? Of course, in the school system there are cases of learning from high school to a college degree. We can mention the police study that many people know, the study of dentists, and others. It says, for example. an analysis of whether to transfer fireists and emergency equipment at university. The evidence for such changes has generally been that the work has progressed to be more complex and requiring of increased preparation. If the same evidence applies to the study offered at Hallorms School, it might be possible. It is also easier to work together with an accepted university degree on the acceptance of the school to further university studies. Some of these cooperations have been successful. I'll give you an example of an offer for medical staff at the University of Akureyri. At first, sharing in such activities can be a very good start. Then there is a minister's rules that can give recognition to institutions to pursue a university level after the recent assessment of independent foreign experts. [[The president calls.]] I kind of have to go over the conditions the school will have to meet if he intends to be an independent university in a later answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u30	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I think it's important to think that I think we're all becoming a little aware that our time's biggest challenges are the environment and climate security, so sustainable thinking and development and education in this area are extremely important. This is where Hallorm University has a special place. It is worth pointing out that this way, one of some at the highest level. Ministers mention, in cooperation with other schools, fine but I think it will delay the growth and development of Hallorm School. When you work together, you are only given each student, and there are not any schools ready to share with one another so that such cooperation often becomes a conflict. [[The president calls.]] I think the school is moving further, so I would like to finally ask, " Will the minister take advantage of the school's benefits and get it up to the university? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u31	A respectable president. School is now under the Minister of Education and Children. But as for university recognition, if the school wishes to become a university school that hasn't come to my table, I need to know that they wish to attend the reviews in Article 3. law on university, which is that independent foreign experts are reporting. There are many factors: there is, of course, academic knowledge and ability, the research network for educational community, the Agency's strengths and the status of educational fields in the foreign context, the management ship, the appropriate conditions of employees, the Agency's quality systems, and so on. One of the conditions is also that he is controlled by a headmaster who has completed a doctor's test, but I and my Ministry publish a manual and a table frame for the acceptance of university in order to increase the transparency of thought-to-be institutions. One senator says that the school might have, to work as university students, to see the requirements for it. So the manual will benefit from this assessment, and it will need to be checked to see if the school itself is interested in meeting all these requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u32	Mr. President. I may sound like a scratched trick to come up here and complain that the Ministers will not respond to anything in an unsupervised question period. But here I am again calling attention to the Supreme One. A social minister gave way to direct questions. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson's son regarding the status and well - being of a child fleeing, who is directly under the minister. He refused to do so by pointing out that a question about this party should be referred only to Jón, the son of Gunnarsson, because the keys have been given him to this class. And now that I have some time to run, I can only point out that three ministers were asked about the status of the defense system in Greece. Two expressed concern, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, and Ingi In Guðbrandsson, felt that it was important to look into circumstances and would not protest the bad conditions there. However, the minister responsible for hailing people in this system said that they were doing just fine in Greece, the Greek government, just doing pretty well. [[The president calls.]] President. I am concerned about this class, especially now when the re-entry ring is an anointed one who is never before due to the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u33	Mr. President. It is a very important part of the meeting program. I'm not bringing any news here when I say that it's just really hard to say that Ministers don't make the slightest attempt to answer questions, even if we repeatedly seek to make them very clear. They are very specific. I think a prime committee should start to consider whether we should not only change these teams so that at least a candidate receives at least one of the prosecuting factors. the final words, and may somehow have an opinion on how this exchange should take place because this game is not answered in the first round, and then somehow there is a bit of force at the end, knowing that a senator has no chance to arise, of course, is a failure of course. If we want to promote the council, maybe we should change it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u34	President. This is an interesting tip that's going on here, because our arrangement is here. In some other places, this is more likely to be a conversational practice, since a minister and a proselytism are even in a certain conversation rather than in a seismic conversation that is being exchanged by clocking. It may be worth considering whether we are reaching the goal of the arrangement we have here for a democratic discussion. In the process of causing these wrongdoers to answer questions, this point, the President's conference board, is then used to point out the defects, natural. Therefore, I feel that we should start to think a little seriously about how this age - old arrangement is about to end because it is simply a misuse of abuse to avoid answering.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u35	A respectable president. Regarding this team, unprepared inquiries, it's very nice to guess what the minister's gonna answer will be. I did well today regarding national security policy when the question of NATO was asked, so the national security policy answered. But I think it's a little special and rigid. I've followed up for discussions at the Norwegian Parliament, the Grand Parliament, and in the question period, they have two pupes; on the one hand, for the head of the council and for the minister. It's going very well there to have more agreement between, such as a log between, and I wonder if we should try a similar arrangement. But I think our manners here are just as good as in Norway. At least there would be more life in those discussions. And I have no doubt about it. Senators could participate in such a discussion, where there would be two pieces in the area, and that would be answered and asked. There'd be a lot more open and demanding question dates, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u36	Mr. President. I have to say that I find this interesting conversation actually more interesting than asking and answering here in unsubstantiated inquiries because the Ministers have basically achieved perfection in the use of autism, and even using the puzzle here, and the inquirys for the occasional misbehaviour of a well-known case. So I'd like the president to take up this matter at the scene of the council groups, if there's anything he can do to do these inquiries, this question period, a more political one, so they can do their purpose. Perhaps if we can manage to change this so well, members of Congress might not have to use the fine team, the President's conference manager, as much in political discussions if we could somehow get the Minister back to use unprepared inquiries to answer political inquiries instead of having a general dulling effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u37	A respectable president. I think there are many things that have to be done to change the shape of the council and really make the work much more efficient than we are today. Of course, living under the circumstances that have been in the council for a long time is intolerable for both the council and the nation. I have witnessed this arrangement, which is spoken of here, that there is more political debate in other institutions where people will be able to handle it, e.g. in two points as shown here, and I think this is just a good idea to look at this, that there can be an interesting political debate over cases where people can handle it. I think this may lead to interest in the work of the Parliament in the public. But at the same time, a respectable president, of course, we have to set some time limit on such matters as those used in other councils. We have to stop this bullshit and respect the democratic part of this council after such a discussion. But I think this might be a good step for a change and a certain compromise in which people present their views, we come to some conclusion, and we vote on a democratic matter, and we finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u38	The president wants to mention that there are unprepared inquiries and their arrangements in the assembly and that they will probably not be completely changed, except by changes in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u39	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a temporary reimbursement of the law for filmmaking in Iceland. The bill suggests changes in temporary reimbursement laws for filmmaking in Iceland, No. 43/1999. Hides the changes suggested that for a limited size of projects, the ratio of reimbursed production costs is 35%, while for other projects that meet the requirements of the law, the ratio remains at 25% as it has been. These suggestions are in line with the emphasis stated in the Government Treaty to promote a global competitive support system in the production of films and TV programs. At the same time, the bill complies with the focus of a film policy for Iceland to the year 2030, published in October 2020. To be precise, the government's government contract states under the permission of a president: In recent years, filmmaking has become an ever more important part of Icelandic employment and culture. The opportunities in this article are great, affecting jobs around the country. International competitive support systems for production of movie and TV will be enhanced. We will further support the article with higher reimbursements on clear, specific factors to help achieve more major projects in Iceland and ensure increased visibility in the financing of the system. A respectable president. The main purpose of law No. 43/1999 is promoting the growth of national culture and presentations on the history of the country and nature and to promote the knowledge of national filmmaking through cooperation with foreign professionals and the building of a powerful film industry in Iceland, where creative articles can be enjoyed. By attracting foreign filmmakers, Icelandic professionals can be trained to develop more independent tasks in this area, to improve the infrastructure of the film industry here, and, above all, to promote Iceland, nature of the country, and Icelandic culture. A respectable president. The figures of competition are between countries, regions, and cities around the world to get foreign producers to film, TV, and other footage. For this, there are a number of reasons, but the main factors are that are professional, currency - oriented, and intensive land presentation, which, if successful, can turn into a positive image and increase the income of tourists. The number of countries is growing to offer special reimbursement for film making and has increased in recent years in the major competitive countries of Iceland. That's how it's been so far into 35%, e.g. In Ireland and Malta. Scotland, Britain, and Canada have also been identified as countries with fierce competition in this area. In view of the scope and translation of films for the Icelandic economy, the bill suggests a reimbursement rate due to special larger projects and longer-term projects in the fields of film and television production will be increased from 25% to 35% of the defined production costs dropped on the country. Closer to this, there is a well-defined cohort of projects that include larger projects and are here for the minimum duration of production. This highlights the above expression in the government covenant, i.e. ▪ Helps that more large projects are being carried out in Iceland to be carried out. The main reasons for suggesting an increase in the share of these projects are to ensure that Iceland will continue to be competitive as the film and TV film location, thus promoting national culture and presentation of the history of the country and nature, and to continue to promote and strengthen this particular industry in Iceland and its creative articles. According to the above, the bill aims to achieve, in an efficient and simple way, with the emphasis of a government contract, on film policy, on a higher remuneration rate that will contribute to the longer-term implementation of more major projects in Iceland. The bill was employed in collaboration with a group of the leading economists who were assigned to reimburse the legal remuneration rate in which representatives from the European Filmmakers, Movie Center, Iceland, the Department of Economics and Economics, and the Ministry of Culture and Business were represented. There is great interest in these plans of the government, both at home and even abroad. Thus there are several large and interesting jobs to perform, and people are ready to begin this year, for formal government decision making, and for the state of law - making. It can be said that with such large long - term tasks, we are going to the next level with the reimbursement system we've been developing since 1999. In view of this, the above work on a bill was rushed and put in place a priority in the work being done. I would like to make it necessary that all guidelines are clear and clear in the legislation where one of the greatest strengths of the Icelandic remuneration system on a global scale has been simple and clear, taking it into account. The percentage of reimbursed production costs in this country is in accordance with the current law of 25%. In many countries, this is the 35% ratio. Is Iceland's country the most competitive place to attract bigger movie and television programs for long periods of time. By bill this, it is suggested that specific tasks that meet specific clearly defined conditions as stated in the law have the right to reimburse a 35% reimburse the cost of manufacturing that falls to this land. Using the emphasis on the Treaty, the bill suggests that three clear criteria between the right of a project of 25% or 35% reimbursement. To have the right to a 35% remuneration rate, all three conditions need to be met. The requirements are as follows: Minimum cost of production: The first reference target will be linked to the defined production costs available in this country and will be allowed to reduce revenues according to the legal requirements for income taxes. Setting minimum cost of production is between ◯Birriður and ◯ smaller projects, as shown by the Constitutional Treaty. It is suggested that the production cost of the film or TV in this country be at least 200 billion. K. Long-term project in Iceland: Secondly, it is proposed to have the right of 35% reimbursement required to allow long-term production projects to be carried out here in a country where take days in Iceland will be at least 30. It is considered acceptable to include the postproduction of a project in Iceland. The day of filming refers to the days when a real film for a project takes place on the set. Postproduction refers to the work taking place on film or television projects after completing the process of processing and disposal of the occupied material, e.g. A haircut, audio processing, technical improvements, and imaging work. Number of workers working on a project: There is a third requirement for a 35% reimbursement that the number of workers directly working on the project should be at least 50. This includes a range of global economic and national impacts of projects. These include tax-able employees in Iceland, who are considered by the law to be paid and contractors solely for manufacturing costs if they are taxed in this country. It is difficult to evaluate how many projects will be assigned to a group of 35% of reimbursement to the law, however it is clear that a great deal of interest is being made in a number of people who have a view of larger projects and longer periods of time, e.g. TV party. The budget of the 20231⁄2027 expects reimbursement to increase by 300 million film makings. K. and will to some extent cope with this change of law. An article with the bill will further refer to reports that have been made to the analysis of the economic effects of the reimbursement system. A respectable president. The original plan expected that the bill of this material would be submitted to the Fall Council of 2022. In view of the interest of foreign parties in this adjustment and major waiting projects, there is much to do to ensure that the bill will be passed on as a law at the General Assembly now before the end of the Council, at the spring Summit. I believe that this is a major progress and that by changing our system, we are moving to the next level that allows us to seize the opportunities to create international competitive film industry in Iceland with the many positive effects that follow. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u40	Madam President. I'm so glad we're promoting an important profession and I'd like to discuss some aspects of filmmaking here today. Although they are many and varied jobs that are created by powerful filmmaking, they are just as important to the many secondary jobs that are not least of the country's most important importance. As VG's senator, I repeatedly get the question, "What is this anywhere else we're supposed to be doing? As we look at industry, fishing, and agriculture, it is clear that these findings are important, but with the changed world picture and emphasis today, it is just something else that is so important. The variety of jobs, innovations, and jobs based on technology and ideas are just this ◯ something else, and filmmaking is strong. Although we at the VG convention support this matter and want to see it flourish, it is important to maintain a certain focus and especially want to mention sex palaces that have been marked for decades. Although this is going in the right direction, there is a special protection for women in moviemaking. One report with the bill shows that the proportion of women who are active in filmmaking is 30%, with 70% of them being men. Of course, this need to be corrected. Another thing I'd like to mention is that as important as filmmaking is - as it is to protect Icelandic filmmaking and also to pay the streets of foreign film companies to come into the country, to create jobs here and take pictures and advertisements - there's a pot all over the business. I'd especially like to mention two shows. As we have seen in articles that are growing rapidly and that are becoming strong and very important to our job life, and I would like to mention travel services in particular, there is a high risk that something different may happen. That is why I want to emphasize open accounting and that everything is being followed in particular. It comes to the other point I wanted to discuss, and it's the rights of the moviemakers. I know quite well in these sectors and repeatedly, and I have seen that work rights are simply broken. Worktime is not fitd, and accidents are lacking. There are amazing things that we've built in Icelandic work legislation that don't fully fit into the movie industry. I thought it was important to come up here and mention this. When we're supporting the films and extra payments and covering the article financially, we also need to consider that it's not just the tops, not just the owners of the largest companies, who benefit from it, but it's a vast variety of staff. They're statins, tuxes, all kinds of people, people who care for refreshments. Everything is being done in these jobs. There have been a little class distinctions in this sector. We need to keep our fingers fixed on the security and employment rights of people. With the support we're giving here, we need to make sure that he can reach out to all who work in filmmaking and not just to a few sharks in the business. I'd like to finally read up a warning that VG took care of the case, with the permission of a president: ▪ The left movement team ▪ Green productions feel that the simultaneous structure of this important art and industry needs to ensure that the working conditions and working environment of moviemakers and other filmmakers are comparable to that of a general labour market. Then it is important that employees' rights in the film sector, such as insurance, sick rights, pay off holiday as well as security, be assured. That's what I wanted to say. I wanted to reiterate the importance of this matter and that we fully support the fact that it will succeed. However, I note that we need to be good at our work and that we are on the side of all who work in filmmaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u41	President. We're here to discuss a national administrative bill on temporary reimbursement from filmmaking in Iceland. I'm excited about this case, because it's this case that I talked a lot about in this sermon during the last term. This is absolutely my heart's affair, and this is a heart issue for many others who have fought for it in recent years. And, Madam President, it's as if the government listened, took part in this series, finally. For years Iceland has been called upon to become an international competitive filmmaker. Of course, this should have been done during the pandemic, and there were some countries who had the courage to do so then, such as. Canary Islands and Ireland Indeed, we lost countless projects during that period and, as a result, many billions who would otherwise have entered the country's nest and would not have been unnecessary during the pandemic. Some countries went even further. The Spaniards increased their ratio to 50%. I can also mention that Will Willur's Ferrells, Euroviation, which I think most people know - only 10% of it was recorded here in Iceland, even though the scene is Iceland in more than half of the film. It's a pleasure to see this happen. Like what? Skúladóttir I don't think most people can really see how amazing a professional film is. But when you watch the credit card at the end of a movie, you can see how violent a lot of people come to one 90 - minute movie. It's an actor's job and a director's job. I need you to smudge. You need electricians, plumbers, and people need to be fed. You need a driver. There are really few jobs that are not involved in filmmaking, technical work, etc. This is, as shown in the case of the highest. Minister, a powerful way to market the land in a positive way and without a direct cost. Some 40% of tourists claim to come to Iceland because they saw Iceland on TV or in a movie. Icelandic nature is unique on a global scale, and it is expected that an application to the unplaying nature of Iceland will only increase in the next few days. This statement has only disturbed the progress of the last miseries that this arrangement is not a defender because so much money goes from a government fund, tax money that leaves the country. This statement has been based on misunderstandings at the highest level. Clearly, the minister of culture has successfully corrected matters, both at the national level as well as in general discussions. This is not a direct cost. The coin must first enter the economy and stay here for nine months, close year, and flow into society. The funds are coming through society, and you can imagine how much it will help as long as there's money around here. Then one action will be taken from the other. The reimbursement system is a very risky arrangement. Money flows into the country, and the remunerations depend on very strict conditions of the agreement. It's, by the permission of the President, a total of 'no-brainer. The work and preparation of this case have been done carefully, and it is also a joy to see that it has been hurried, placed here at the spring Summit. We cannot afford to lose more than one large task in our neighboring countries. We haven't been internationally competitive in filmmaking in Iceland. It also sounds to me like a parapolitic agreement on this matter, and so it should be, in my opinion. You can't really find a fault with this. This is truly great for our small nation, for our upbuilding business, for our industry. This affects Iceland's reputation. These are secure jobs, some 9,000 can, for example. As far as it's concerned, I think I'll handle it right, Mr. President. In the long serium, up to 9,000 jobs are created and for each job there are secondary jobs about 9000. Two. President. I would have liked to see it done a lot earlier, and it could have been done in the last term, but I guess we don't go back in time. I'd like to wish for the highest. The minister of culture is truly happy with this matter, to have handled the road and the prowess of it, and the courage to follow through. It's national politics for Iceland. Congratulations to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u42	Madam President. I come up here to declare my support for this matter, very strongly. I've been thinking about these matters for a long time, working in an article that is closely related to the film industry, in the media. I know a well - known convergence between these two articles and from that point of view, this bill, this proposed song, will support the Icelandic media in this way to expand the pot. They are closely linked to companies that often work with one another. This generates a larger concept for both the media and the Icelandic filmmaking, and there is good reason to maintain it here, when we discuss this, that the secondary effects of this are far more extensive than we often talk about when talking about Icelandic film production and Icelandic filmmaking. This is a very professional, I'd think, and I'd be delighted very much if there's a possibility that so far a major project and the possibility as a direct result of these plans. That's a huge number of people working on these larger projects. As mentioned earlier, it's not just about filmmaking. It's, uh... it's... it's, uh... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's, uh... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... large support for travel services in the country. There is a great deal of support for smaller rural groups when a large set of crews need to move in for resources and services, which could continue to be counted and for a very long time. This, of course, goes far beyond the filmmaking, the positive effect, the side effect, and that, of course, is the thought behind it and the reason why the nations of the world have a system of things to try to attract themselves to such projects. There's been some pressure on the candidates for a while to go this way. I was always a little surprised during the last term when I was confronted with the revulsion of the former minister of the seminary that I felt at times, and I was often referred to as the reimbursement of 25% and perhaps as a full reason for the fact that the article was on my own. But that is exactly what this kind of spirit enables us to stand on our own feet. It is a competitive environment, and although we possess great nature, and we have all these infrastructures to receive such projects and professionals that can encourage and support, and all of that, the funds will naturally look to places where it is most practical. It's going to be a hell of a lot about 25% or 35% at the time. It's about getting a job that someone else wouldn't get in. So if you want to go into it, you can play with numbers about expenses and other financial resources in this regard or lose money. There's been some conditions to define the kind of project that goes on and I've seen it, after reviewing it, that they're most reasonable, at least their thoughts. If that's the case, then we're going to have to cut off some bait, and we're going to fix it. For example, the minimum cost of production is about 200 million. K. Of course, knowing what the article itself says about it does not mean to be holy. That's at least I think it's a good sign. The date of 30 filming is mentioned, and the follow-up is in that number, which, of course, is of utmost importance to how the article can apply its support here in the country, i.e. this will happen not only on the actual take days but also on the after - ups, which is an enormous part of this, costs of time, and cost. So it's professional for our people here in Iceland who work in post-recycling, and there are, of course, a lot of them. It refers to a number of employees, which is at least 50. I say the same thing about the cost, it's not my holy number, and it's nice to hear the article on it. But at least that makes sense. But as I say, I think there's good reason to listen to what the article itself says about this and if something needs to change to make it even more efficient and more effective, then, of course, I support it. There's one thing in this that's a little sensitive, and that's the equal sense. I think it is only natural that we always ask ourselves this question: Why do we take one article and have such appeals in it rather than in any other article? It's just part of the process we have to go through asking us that question. But I think we're answering this by pointing to the secondary effects of having these types of operations. We're getting in here a job that wouldn't otherwise come. We're getting through this support to a lot of different jobs, not just the filmmaking, but all the secondary jobs I mentioned earlier. I mentioned the tourism services, and this supports the development of employment opportunities all over the country. So there are a number of reasons why this article should enjoy this pleasure, even though it is probably a matter for me to discuss it in terms of equality and to keep it in mind. As I'm saying, it's like that movie and movie producers have eyes in Iceland, including By nature. It's the one that attracts people. There is one interesting thing to wonder about in that context, i.e. that, if it's expensive for these people to come to Iceland or more expensive, it can be taken into account by them to limit their activity here by recording nature but having all other activities elsewhere. As a result, less funding would be left in the Icelandic economy. I think this case's a little up to it. This means there are more people coming in here, more money, and of course it wouldn't if we weren't going after other countries that we're competing with in this area. Of course, it's beautiful nature beyond Iceland, but it's truly unique here. Still, we need to work on making conditions so that humans can see the benefit of coming here and enjoying nature and showing the results of movies and episodes. Then there is the geographing in connection with this. Of course, it is significant, as has been observed in the treatment of the matter, and it is repeated when we have been discussing these matters in the community. With my close attention, I also watched with all the publicity in the media from abroad and how much attention Icelandic nature and Icelandic culture were actually received through that series. Those were six or eight series. People came here year after year, tens of millions if not hundreds of people watching. It tells itself that this yields greater interest in land and nation, and hence, when we are inclined to attract people, we are in and also indirectly invest in land development without going directly into advertising the country at the appropriate cost. I don't have to have many words about this. This is something we all know, and, in my opinion, is a huge argument to support this matter. I'd like to correct what I said here in the beginning. Thus, traditional media and filmmaking are closely related to the phenomenon. There are a lot of small companies, medium-sized enterprises and large companies in this business that serve both conventional Icelandic media, even news processing, and then film makings, companies that care for both aspects. As a result, this language is indirect support to the Icelandic media, and I think we need to keep it up a little. We are always wondering that the situation of the Icelandic media could be better. That's at least one smells as a result of preparing a stronger field of service for them. This increases the depth of the mattress. This adds to the ideas discussed in this article. So there's more and more people working. The company is more powerful and then they're also doing the media service, so everybody works in that equation, I think. I agree with it. Skúladóttir It's probably to use this opportunity when discussing these topics to talk about the women's position in filmmaking. They have been very leaned upon as we know them. I hope there is yet another positive side to this issue that women's position is likely to grow within the sector. I also want to agree with these general words about the working environment, rights, terms, purchases, and all these things, that everything is all right. Of course, that is true when we are making decisions about the environment of every industry here. I'm going to be happy that this case has come to pass, and I'm gonna support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u43	Madam President. Just like the rest of us. I'm glad that this bill is out here, and that it's all up to you. I want to, just like the rest of us. Councilmen, requesting the highest order. How important it is that we continue to promote this important industry in our country! It is not only our country and nature that have created a good reputation for themselves but that of the people who work in this industry here. So, as noted, it is important that the environment in Iceland be competitive. There is a big misunderstanding that often seems to be on the side of people, that by means of the reimbursement given from the cost of success in this country, the State is somehow losing money. You see, that's how we get this coin multiplied. Not only do we receive it in the pay of people here or taxes, as well as in the form of a taxation tax from products that are being purchased or various other items. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson pointed out earlier, in increased tourism. Yes, it is so that people make special trips to see the places they have seen in movies or on television programs. Those of us who have traveled around the world and who have even lived around the world have endless questions: Where is this waterfall seen in this picture? Where is this mountain that was seen in these television shows? The peaks these tourists spend in this country are much higher if not a hundred times what we repay. It is important that we think of these things as investments in creating opportunities, creating industry, and strengthening creative articles in our country. We'll talk later today about a very similar system related to innovation companies being reimbursed the research and development costs of innovation companies in the same way as here. It's a model that works and a model that we should be open for being in more fields than just those two. I'd like to recall that 14 years ago, probably that long ago, I worked for Microsoft. To this land, an agent came from Microsoft who was responsible for making all their data sets in the world. They wanted to buy a lot of energy, they wanted to use one of the new sea cables that had come to the country, more or less. They had already thought how they could have the data studio that next to the activation to lose as little as possible, and this was supposed to produce hundreds of jobs. Everything worked well, except it was another country that came and offered reimbursement, in that case, for a certain year. We lost that Iceland had become the center of Microsoft's cloudwork in Europe. When the government was then spoken to in the country, there was no understanding that it was an investment that would create a longer - term opportunity. It's good that we've begun to realize it, and the government has begun to realize it - and I'm not talking about the highest. A minister sitting here holding the highest. The Ministers sitting with the highest. Ministers in the government -- that these are investments that come in. Of course, it is important that we carefully examine the work environment and the security issues and other activities involved. Since I know that we on a professional committee are going to try to handle this matter, which is fast, I encourage the committee and the Ministry to cooperate well with us in bringing some benefits to the bill before the fall. I know it was originally supposed to come in the fall, but now it's getting faster. Perhaps you can add the items that you have. A senator of the left green mentioned earlier. Perhaps you can work on it during the summer, give us a little more time to do so. I know we're gonna win this fast on a professional committee. We're going to have a short reporting period, so if people in the movie industry are watching, they're ready to bring the reviews as fast as possible. It's important that we take advantage of this opportunity, that we use it now. These laws have existed since 1999, and yet they have become ◯ temporary, and they are always being replaced. Actually, it's been 23 years now since it was typed in. I just want to get some answers that the Ministry may be able to bring to the employment committee as to whether the current time available to 2025 is long enough for the major tasks that are possible in the pipes because if the big companies see that they'll be discounted during the first three years but maybe after that -- if we need to fix it along the way, as we did right now. I mentioned the past data studios and technology. Let us see that the technology in the film industry is changing rapidly. Our beautiful nature is being recorded right now, but it may as well be that in about 5 to 10 years, it just comes out of some computer and that the people are also drawn. It's going very fast. So let's hope we can use this industry to come in before computers take over and all movies will be in Iceland, but nothing will be done here by technical solutions. But as I said, I maintain my heart on this bill and will make sure that we do it fast and well on a business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u44	V.E.G. President. The autumn of 2020 marked a turning point in the history of film making in Iceland when it was the highest power. A minister of culture, Alfreðsdóttir Alfreddddóttir, proposed the first overall policy of the Icelandic government on film. The aim of the policy is to create a rich film culture that strengthens the country's self - image, promotes Icelandic language, provides varied and ambitious film education, strengthens its competitive status, and contributes to the international brand of film making. With the film policy, the Icelandic government has recognized the growing role of culture, art, and creative articles in Iceland. The bill suggests changes in temporary reimbursement laws for filmmaking in Iceland. Hides the changes suggested that for a limited size of projects, the ratio of reimbursement costs is 35% and that they meet all the criteria listed in the bill than for other projects that meet the requirements of the law remains at 25% as it has been. These suggestions are in line with the emphasis stated in the Government Treaty to promote a global competitive support system in the production of films and TV programs. At the same time, the bill complies with the focus of the film policy for Iceland to the year 2030, published in October 2020. The emphasis presented in the Treaty is, by permission of a president, put it this way: In recent years, filmmaking has become an ever more important part of Icelandic employment and culture. The opportunities in this article are great, affecting jobs around the country. International competitive support systems for production of movie and TV will be enhanced. We will further support the article with a higher reimbursement on clearly specific factors to help ensure that more major projects will be carried out in Iceland and will ensure increased leadership in the financing. ◯ I think there's a special reason to say thank you. The minister of culture, Alfreðsdóttir Alfred, for the way she has handled this matter. In recent years the importance of supporting film making in the country has been seen as well as increasing the reimbursement of production costs to 35%, as in countries that compete with Iceland. A movie film has long ago proved its value as an art and trade. A powerful film culture promotes the nation's sense of identity. Movies and television programs are an art that reflects on history and culture. A tour survey has shown that nearly 40% of visitors in the country made a decision to travel to Iceland after seeing the country on television or on the white screen. The overall capacity of tourism for such tourists runs into billions of people. The Icelandic film industry produces 45,000 direct and secondary jobs and attracts foreign investment. This involves a tremendous amount of value to the wealth of the state. We have been talking about the importance of creating a variety of opportunities for employment. Moviemaking is a creative industry that likes that idea, but it is important that it receive proper support. The fourth industrial revolution calls for intelligent, high-tech, creation and sustainable solutions and filmmaking, all of this. V.E.G. President. In progress, we understand the importance of supporting Icelandic films. On our watch, the establishment of Iceland's Film Fund and the National Film Museum has been set up, along with the setting of the first reimbursement for film making. History has proved the value of these important actions and has emphasized the opportunities to make films for land and nation. The future is bright, and it will be a pleasure to share in supporting the minister of Culture and the government on the task of reaching even further to the country's films. In 1999, a law on temporary reimbursement of film making was first accepted. At that time, the pay ratio was 12%. The first reimbursement took place in 2001, at which time the EFTA office had previously accepted the law as a legitimate government aid system. The percentage was then increased to 14% by a change in 2006 and to 20% in 2009. Since 2016 the share has been in 25%. In fact, changes in the laws were made 2001 with reference to a report by the Government Review of the Reimbursement System. The number of competitions between countries and regions around the world are getting foreign producers to film, TV, and other footage. For this, there are a number of reasons, but the key factors are that are professional, currency - making, and the country's introductions in foreign lands can turn into a positive image and increase the revenue of tourists if successful. Moviemaking, such as reimbursement rates of production costs, can play a key role in the decision made by moviemakers on the location of a project. At an international competitive market where the cost of production has reached unprecedented levels, governments have increasingly recognized such incentives as effective tools to attract valuable investments to the State in foreign film sectors, to strengthen local production and to build skills, knowledge, job opportunities, and infrastructure. This may include: in recent years the reimbursement rate of production costs has been reimbursed by governments. Based on international comparisons, such increases can have some indirect effects on progress, such as increasing projects and local employees in the film sector, the construction of movie organisms, and the building of roads and maintenance of buildings used in filming. According to current legislation from 1999, the share in recycling costs is 25% of the defined production costs. This applies to all productions that fall under the standards of the law. The cost of earning a living can be reduced by income tax laws. V.E.G. President. The opportunities in the great film industry are endless. We can see that foreign workers are increasing moving to the country. The increase in movie activities has a wide range of interesting job opportunities all over the country, and it calls for a wide range of expertise. Behind one movie, there are a number of handbills and many special jobs for artists and moviemakers. This results in the production of a movie a number of other jobs. Hotels, hostels, guides, rentals, and restaurants all over the country benefit from this. Thousands of jobs and increased incomes in the state's funds are a clear example of the positive effects of filmmaking in this country, where we can reach even greater levels. But we have strong faith in the ability of the film industry to create real value for society. It is estimated that filmmaking turned 9 billion dollars into the community. Last year. Then the success of filmmaking is expected in Iceland in the years to come. It is a source of joy, though, and it is not surprising that Iceland has a large number of professionals in the article that is doing a great job every day, whether in directors, actors, composers, technicians, or others. Iceland's success is admirable, and the culture of Icelandic films has grown in foreign lands in recent years. There's a lot of opportunities, and we're going to grab them. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u45	Madam President. Many fine talks have been given in addition to the public talk. A minister who is the minister of the matter. I'd like to start by saying that I support this case. In many respects, I believe this is a good step and is needed to strengthen our competitiveness in filmmaking. Of course, there are roofs and boundaries and exports waiting for the Committee to review, and I leave that to the professional committees. But overall, it's a good thing for me. There have been excellent talks here, which have been carefully considered for the purposes of this development, i.e. This secondary part of the economy, economy, tourism, and market issues, of course, is all true. But I just want to talk about the other end. You see, there will be no spare of itself. It has a source of ideas, knowledge, manufacturing, and then it eventually becomes a product. The same is true of art. And because we're talking about filmmaking, there may not be an institution here in the country that is better equipped for film production than Iceland's art school where all the articles needed to make a good movie are taught. Moviemakers, costumes, motion pictures, architecture, design, art, and, especially, music - all of this is in one piece of creation at the end, and this needs to be nurtured. We have a single art university, an automaton, which is the only option for young people who want to learn these articles here. So it is not good that there are many times more spending in school than in other colleges. Why do I mention this? Yes, because we can't just trust in God and his happiness and intend to accept all the social benefits that come from film making. Of course, we are also required to arrange for these to become suitable artists who can create the best movies. This case is a very logical step that we have been taking gradually between 1990 and today, with this bill. We have come to appreciate more fully that we need to build our job life on a much more diverse basis than we have, and we are increasingly to build on other things than the initial production and processing of natural resources that are important and become important but are much more limited than the intelligent resource, the only resource that is inexplicable. We are in the middle of the blessed fourth industrial revolution that is completely changing our entire existence. It is said that in the near future, more than half of all jobs will be performed without the direct presence of man, while art and filmmaking will never exist without the existence of great intelligence. In my brief session, I have made a plagion proposal for art studies for children and adolescents, but art studies are in many ways a very good foundation for all these creative articles that we speak so well of during the holidays. Art school is actually a foundation for moviemakers, architects, fashion designers, and all that stuff. This is not so that all who study art as children and teenagers become artists. Rather, they are a good foundation for all kinds of visual arts. We have seen, indeed, what it has done to the Icelandic people to take the successful steps they made in the music - school program in the country where all children and young people in all parts of the country were given the opportunity to be educated in good music. As a result, a 19 - year - old person who has enjoyed a music school in a much better place than a person who is about to work in the arts, even if he is nearly full of musical instruments, may need to deepen himself but can find his own ways, or may know much better where he wants to go. However, this random education in art results in a person's early 20's. He will come up with the shallowness he should have acquired long ago in order to determine which way he wants to go within the list of his sights. Do I want to go to movies or play art? I want to go to architecture or design, and so on.? I think we need to take care of this much better. We already see what creative articles contribute to the community. In support of this, it is sufficient to point to the research of Ágúst Einar Einarsson, a doctor in the economic influence of creative articles, which has shown that creative articles are an increasingly important part of our economy and, of course, can, as many have been mentioned in previous talks, supported by other articles and advertised our country and nation. The reason I'm taking this out is because there's been so much talk about what we can get out of it. But I'd like to establish what we have to do to make this even stronger, and it's growing up to study young people, as well as adults, inside the school system, and finally, at the National Arts University of Iceland. They are not vain speculations. According to the 2017 Ministry of Education and Culture, there is a substantial discrepancies in the way schools make classes for art and engineering, some even for the 8th to the 10th grade. We also saw in the wake of the collapse, when squeezing, that it was the principal of these branches, which were elbow children, who were not being dealt well enough. This, of course, is in striking contrast with the big and beautiful words we use when we are admiring the value of these things. As we take this step and take advantage of its benefits but also for our community, we may owe it to the artists to make more meaningful support. In this regard, industrial industry has been referred to as important jobs, such as tourism, all the possible things that all people are true and correct, but let us not forget filmmaking, just as other arts have been described, of course, is very important in themselves. It is of primary importance, if we are going to take steps in these new times, where borders are more and more important, where distances are of no importance, where young people can choose to live anywhere in the world, study and raise their children, it is more important that we live in such a way that people are interested in living in this country. We don't have the weather to lure them into, even if it's fine today. As soon as I repeat that the Conspiracy will support this case and think it's good, and as soon as I agree with what's said here on the possibilities and the benefits this will do for the job life, I'd like to encourage us to go seriously to see how the environment we live the young artists who are taking their first steps in these articles, as well as those who have even been in this for a long time. In fact, many artists in Iceland are a great people, a country for benefits and benefits, and to the extent that governments use them rather than the introduction of governments. When it comes to education, let us spit in the palms of our hands, living in the future with even better art, both in films and in other fields.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u46	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's Logi for his detailed speech here, and I agree with him. We all agree that this is the best case, because I have shared in driving it for several years. The drop'll break the stone. If you speak to the politicians in good terms, sooner or later they will open their ears and minds and hearts, and we will see a good example here. I'd like to wish for the highest. Business and cultural ministers in particular, this is a happy day for her and all the responses one way. The floor flourishes here before the power of the dawn and the sun, and may her reputation last for a long time with this good step. Of course, this is not the only step she has taken, but she also recommended what was done successfully at the scene of the film when a movie fund was turned into a movie agency. Now it's got the highest. A minister agrees that a music fund becomes a music agency and that is already in preparation, declared. We were the first people to do the same for the music that has been done for the movies. We are attracting music projects from around the world. Symphonynord, in my old hometown of Akureyri, benefits, and more musicians. It is a fairy tale, and it will continue to thrive. They are preparing something similar here in the capital even with Iceland's Symphony Orchestra involved. We agree that we are doing well here. It's fun to be in a sunny assembly hall, where people are just as united and positive as they like what's going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u47	Madam President. I come up here with the courtesy of what? paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon, he did not directly direct a question to me, but he only added behind my talk. I agree with him. Of course, what a joy it is to have more and more people not only finding joy in art but also working directly! Let's move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u48	V.E.G. President. The Liljan truly thrives in the sun at the East Field, and I'm going to use this opportunity to celebrate the highest of its initiatives. Minister Alfreðsdóttir Dögg Alfreddddóttir, to set this matter straight. I trust that, in view of the positive nature of the discussion today, this case will have rapid and successful progress across all categories. The effects in the big context become tremendously positive, that's what I'm completely convinced of. The remuneration rate, where it needs to be to maintain the necessary competitiveness, can be discussed in order to get the work we really want to see here. It is only difficult to discuss such things at all times, since the quantity is unclear and it is also unclear exactly where the effect is made. We only know and research and history tell us that a positive effect will become considerable, and hence, it should not really be mentioned as cost but simply as necessary in soil to flourish. The basis for my decision to address this point in describing the firm support of the bill is that we who work near this sector and see how these projects have affected our habitats cannot help but marvel at how fast and well this has been built up because of certain steps in order to ensure that the branches can flourish. However, we need to keep in mind the building of necessary areas in many parts of the country in order to carry out these assignments. There's a lot of things that need to be done. It's a lot of work. It takes a lot of things to make it work. It is missing from many places, and we can only consider it an opportunity to expand our assignments throughout the country. I'd like to mention the manned in travel service. It is hard work for people who have a global reputation in this business. The fact is that this industry led us out of the last economic depression, and I'm pretty sure that it will have a big part in making it a second time. Sometimes you ask yourself, and I sometimes argue that it really is nature that moves us. People are creative, people have ideas, people have power, summer hair moves us to good works, and winter and darkness gives us needed room for meditation. I am absolutely convinced that we will continue to thrive in this regard. It's good to consider, when we're getting out of Covid, where we were before the Covid and where we're remaining as a community. As we look at this industry, we are coming out of a very difficult period of two years, but I believe that we are growing fast into a very challenging situation, which is an overwhelming opportunity. We need to focus on our competitiveness. It is truly fine, and there is a positive outlook in this article, but this competitive spirit is not self - determination, and we must look for ways to maintain it and build it up so that we do not lose it. Tourism is largely based on natural resources. I'd like to mention, because we're in an operation that will increase demand for coming to the country and working here, that we need to be careful that we use the resources of the country, in a sustainable way. In this context, we need to speed up structure, though in recent years we may have been spiting heavily. I allow myself sometimes, and I do this with the permission of a president, to refer to it, and I hope one day we can look at the resources of the tourism, the resources of the country, in a similar way as we do with the resources of the sea where we are borrowing the resource, to consider how we will use it in a sustainable way, and to maximise the value of a limited resource. How can we do what is best and look to the experiences we have? I'm going to let me mention something I was sorry about in my speech. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir. When traveling, it is common to mention that there are black sheep here. They certainly are everywhere, and we should rather look at solutions and ways to ensure a better environment around these sectors, since the labour laws and collective agreements actually developed at a time, as this article did not exist or at least not very extensive. In my conversations with people in this business, there are often calls for an increased consideration of the particular status of this article, which is based on services outside the usual day - to - day work that we are often dealing with, and that we are looking for ways to shape the environment so that, with the greatest agreement, we will be able to maximise the value of nature and man. Let us watch our competitiveness and continue looking for ways, as this is so as to defend it. Here are examples of a remuneration rate, which is even higher than we speak. I trust that in the case of the Committee and the Parliament, this ratio will be checked to see if it is sufficient or even to go further. Once again, I rejoice with the one who is involved in this matter, trusting that it will be over for the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u49	President. I briefly return to my second speech to include some points I forgot to mention in my first speech, i.e. to address the issues of the day. paritaprevir Jódís, the Skúladóttir of Scuba, who entered the California sex palace that identifies the movie sector to this day and has to work on it. Even if we get fogged in the right direction, more is needed if necessary. It is very important to bear in mind that there are opportunities and jobs and a future industry that can be of interest to young girls. Perhaps the problem is a little less than thinking about it. Moviemaking and the music industry work, for example. very close together, and the changes we will discuss here today will also benefit the music industry. We can see that a Hildur Guðnadóttir's daughter, a musician wrote music for a big Hollywood movie, The Joker, and I was reminded of the first woman to win her wish for original movie music. All of us know of this account of her family members, Hildur whom we are so proud. So filmmaking needs to be introduced more to women and girls. There is indeed an exciting future field of activity. The rights of staff are also very important. It has only recently come to Hollywood that there have been strikes by those who work in this article, those who are not at the top of the pecking order. It's been quite a problem. There, workers are completely new and exhausted, and there has been exhaustion in this article. Thus, the rights of the staff in this article are very important, and we here have to keep that in mind. The article has benefited greatly from the local community, as noted in the case of senators who spoke ahead of me, and there may be a new profession that is a movie tour service that is taking a look at places where some well - known pictures or items were taken. This is all very interesting for the country's home, and it can be a source of employment in the country. There is another, movies and episodes need to be built, which is often the first step. We are a literary nation and are well - known to be able to get stories in writing, and many movies have been made from Icelandic books and even Iceland's history. There's another very exciting scene for Icelandic writers. This is so extensive in industry and so many jobs and resources under which you can look. Recently, film studies in the Art Institute of Iceland were launched, and that was a huge step forward. Of course, it's a lot of work together. For the first time in Iceland, filmmaking is possible for the first time. The study begins in the fall of Iceland's Art Institute. It shows a long - term thought that has finally come into this article, and that is wonderful. We know these long - term thoughts from soccer and sports, how important it is, and what it will eventually turn out. So this is great. One last thing, my time is running out. We're here with a valuable export branch, but just like sports and football, there's a lot to do. The next step after this cool bill would be to consider a movie studio in Iceland, a large studio, the size of an Eels Palace, or even two. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u50	President. All I want to do is talk about two things in this bill. First, the size limit. You can quickly see that there are only jobs that cost at least 200 million who fall to this rate of reimbursement, and you can ask: Is there any big business policy in the movie business? No, I wouldn't look at it that way. I would view it as making a distinction between the projects that are self-sustained and smaller projects that usually have some kind of strength. This is really the equation. It is talking about marketing production or, by permission of the president, the production of ◯commercial. Although I scratch my head to the point that this exact amount is selected, it is understandable to some extent. But it's okay. At least I'll make the distinction between this that I wouldn't call this, as if maybe somebody'd think, big-time policy to get just a big job here. Then the chapter on assessment of the effect is a little interesting. It reviews a report by the Institute of Economics, Delotte's diagnosis, and then an assessment of the effect. I understand that it is difficult to evaluate the effects of an additional reimbursement of the amount of money being replaced, e.g. in connection with the volume of the work of multiples and the production of multiples in secondary jobs, which also have a side effect on the income of the state funds. Yet, I allow myself to doubt the expected cost of 300 million to meet that change. I don't suppose there's just one project on these 200 million projects - that would be more than 300 million, but you're up to some billion extra projects to pay it up, and it's probably a lot less than that because of a side effect. However, what I would like to make a comment about the reimbursement system, as it is carried out, is that funding is provided to reimburse the money tax from the movie companies. Once that budget is complete, the pay will have stopped. That's not good. That means all payments take a break until next year. Then there's a new amount of money, and that's when you start paying up what's actually in debt from the previous year. It has raised a set of reimbursements that have had to work on and accept additional funds for. Public financial laws assume that such lawsuits can wander back and forth at zero. When additional projects are included, they are simply rights to be spoken of, such as rights to obtain unemployment improvements, receive certain reimbursements, e.g. For everyone's work. These rights are not limited to any means of money, but in this case, the Ministry will stop paying the money when there is no money left, which I find strange. I have called attention to this in other litigation groups. Sometimes it may be paid just to continue, without coming to the council and applying for more money, but other projects may not at all be allowed to do so. Then you have to stop and wait for the council to agree with more resources. This is a clear example of this. It is true that this should be done in such a way, come to the council, and ask for additional financial resources, but at the same time, it is also assumed under government laws that individual projects can sway if certain rights are available. Then, in effect, a minister's job is to get them up in the process, simply by explaining how these have been funded in financial terms because there were more jobs than expected, this is something people have a right to do, or by staging in somehow, setting regulations or something about which simply limit the right of the movie companies to be reimbursed unless they have made a good advance so that they can say before or no, whether they will be paid off or not. I find this very vague - not on the bill; it is not relevant to the bill in itself; it is simply the implementation of a defective budget. She shouldn't be like that. I make a little comment to these two points, and especially just the way we do the budget. So I'd put my heart to the Minister of the jury to make the bill clear in view of the implementation of budgets, i.e. that the remunerations work properly according to the rights the companies have that pay the merit tax. In fact, they should pay less valuable taxes. They should simply pass in bills and thus look like them in order to show at expense. Technically, this is a question of reimbursement, but in theory, you can put it in some way lower tax levels, which would mean that these companies don't have to pay this money to start with, but the project is in the way that it is fixed afterwards. In this respect, because these reimbursements are already paid for by the government, there is no problem for the fund. I look forward to seeing that this group of paintings does not rest as he has done and accumulates some weakness on his behalf, for it certainly is not supposed to happen. These are simply rights that the companies earn by fulfilling the requirements set out in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u51	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. Councilmen for a very positive reaction. I also want to review the so - called large economic picture and why I believe this bill is important to creating new currency dollars in new articles. I would like to briefly review what has been going on in the past 30 years. We have a economy which was totally dependent on one article, i.e. Seafood. 90% of our currency revenues came from there, and it was, of course, very sensitive to external injury, if anything would happen at that point. Then we're going to move power out and start applying the fallen waters and the aquifers. Travelers come in so strong, and now the software industry and movies fall under that industry and culture. It's a harmonic piece. The number of depositors in this field has increased in the last eight years by 8%, ranging from 8% to 16%. This is of utmost importance because, as shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, that all of this is based on knowledge, which, of course, is not as dependent on external cycles. It is of utmost importance for a small open economy, such as the Icelandic, that we continue to ensure that our country's industry is diverse and supportive. I just want to review some of the points presented in the Senate case during the discussion. For what? paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, who was very concerned about the rights of staff in this sector, also identified the sex ratios. I can say with what. Senator. It is very important that rights be guaranteed and that we comply with the relevant rules and rights. This was also shown in the case of the day. paritaprevir Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter. I'd also like to thank her for having spoken for this case, she's been a very enthusiastic supporters of raising her ratio to 35% for a bigger project. It has been a perfect understanding of the importance. The competitiveness had run out. We were competing with countries like Ireland and Scotland, who had overtaken us in this regard. Of course, no one is concerned about going to a special race in this regard, but if we were building a industry like films, we realized that we were getting out of the way and were missing out on certain opportunities. So it was urgent to take this step. In this context, I'd like to mention the magnitude. The scope of this industry was about 30 billion in 2019, and the work that humans are interested in bringing here is in the range of 75.9 billion. As a result, you can imagine the growth of your knowledge that is about to take place. This is totally in line with the film policy that was set in the last terms. This bill is in line with action six in which we say that it is very important to contribute to the competitiveness of our industry. I think we can all agree on it here at the National Institute of Iceland that when Hildur Guðnadóttir got the award for film music, which is one of the best testimony to the power of education here in Iceland, at the Art of Iceland - that is why we also decided during the last term to transfer film studies to university, to the Art University of Iceland, and it's actually going to happen. I think it's very important that when we're helping a certain industry grow and prosper, the interiors are good, i.e. keeping in mind the rights of the industry, that the study is sound and sound. This is, I would say, a complete approach to this industry. I believe it is true what Sigmar Guðmundsson said is that this industry is supporting the press. I just want to reiterate it and ask for cooperation, cross political cooperation here at the council, on the need to give more support to the media. The competition between the international media and the international media is large enough to threaten the future of the language. I believe it will be the ongoing task of this terms to further support the media. Hv. Einarsson And I'd like to inform you. A senator says that we are completing an art conference in my Ministry, and we began this policy during the last term. We give special attention to design and architecture, art, and music because we believe that these and these classes need more support. All research shows that a higher level of education in the respective article adds to innovation and technology, which, in turn, contributes to international trade and increases national prosperity. I think we always need to consider, when we're molding and supporting certain sectors, how we're competitive. How is this article making more valuable or valuable than what it would have been for a national project? I can inform the council that we recently set up in the Ministry of Culture and Business Office, known as the Office of Precious Arts. Is this the first time in the history of the Council of Management Board made up a special office on valuable things. All of this is about the payment of the population - are we exporting more than we're importing? If we do, we have a well - paying reserve and can survive certain economic losses. A respectable president. Today, some 15,000 people work in creative articles, with a growing number of them. I believe there is evidence that there is great prosperity and prosperity in Iceland. It follows nations that have a powerful cultural background that is also of great prosperity. History teaches us this. Therefore, I request that the council continue with the Ministry in a way that would further support the infrastructure. As soon as the council has dealt materially with this bill, I believe that the setting around movies is becoming quite good. I'd like a little before I finish my case -- why. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear came upon the economic influence and also quoted Deloitte's analysis of the economic effects of the reimbursement system for film making. In 2006, it was estimated that the secondary effects of filmmaking estimated by multiples were 2.4 times greater and 2.9, respectively. If we look at tourism, this is probably higher because well over 50% of all the tourists who visit the country may have seen Iceland first or heard of an Iceland in a movie or in a video or something about this sector. With the growth of tourism, these are the branches, tourism, and film industry, and the television industry. Here, too, we read about the laws on this point. I can agree with that with what. A senator thinks this might be clearer. It has been so often that they are already missing out on the budget, but it would most likely be the wisest thing to make a clearer decision. I'll take this tip to myself. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to thank you very much for the inputs the senators have brought here on the topic discussion. There are other foreign people who are very interested in coming and staying for a long time, just so you can inform them. Often, these days of filming have been between two and five, some for a while, but now we're talking about everything else where the day of filming is at least Even more than 30 days and some of the work that people are interested in bringing here are over six months and have taken far and wide across the country. Thus, the multiplicity effect is not only in the capital area but also in the region, and it is often brought here when it is not during the rush of tourism. A respectable president. This bill is ready to go into a business committee and, of course, I declare that the Ministry is very interested in working closely with the Committee so that we can finish the bill quickly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u52	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new overall layer of European long-term investment funds. The bill's on the roof. 725, case No. 508. The bill calls for the introduction to the European Parliament and the Council's Regulation (EEC). 2015/760 about a European long-term investment fund. The design puts a box on the use of the vows ELIF and on the European long-term investment fund for the operators who choose to market such funds within the EEA. The marine environment stresses long-term investments in various field projects, e.g. The internal, unscheduled enterprises and SMEs. The main focus of the bill is the legalisation of the Regulation and the necessary rules, such as the handling, the repairs and sentences of the administration directive. This Regulation discusses the requirements that must be met in order to market funds like this. The main issue of the Regulation is that the funds should receive confirmation as ELTIF funds and that operators should be approved by the competent authorities in order to run such funds. The proof of ELIT Fund is valid in all EU Member States. Second, what investments are considered authorized by such funds. The fund needs to invest at least 70% of the total financial contributions and uninhabited funds for which investors have registered in suitable investments. Third, the suitable investors are determined, but the funds are like other specialized funds intended for professional investors. However, it is permitted to launch the funds for public investors on specific conditions to ensure investment protection. Fourthly, transparent requirements, such as the source information and the key information, are set up in case of public investing. In all of the marketing authorisations the nature of the concerned funds, such as the sale and risk profile, should be reported. Fifth, it is stated that solutions in general should not be possible before the ELIF lifetime is completed, although it is permitted to allow solutions before the end of the fund's lifetime to meet certain specific criteria. Sixth, it is attributed to the European stock market agency to a public central database on the entire ELTIF Fund which has received confirmation of their operators and the legal authority of the funds. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill are merely to influence the operators who decide to provide for the transfected body type. This kind of funds are not available in this country right now, because the Icelandic legal environment has not offered it, nor is there any demand to start such a fund. Increased obligations will be made to the operators who prefer to offer an ELTIF fund, such as the application for confirmation of the fund and the approval that the operators will need to obtain from the Commission to run a fund of this kind and, for example, a follow-up of e.g. The market of the funds and business operators. As a result of the proposed legislation at this time, there is no anticipated increase in the activities of the SEC, but it is expected that the operators will decide to offer this new kind of funds may be an up-to-date student. It is thought that the effectiveness of the implementation of the Regulation will be negligible, that the projects will be included within the current budget and the impact on the state funds will therefore be absent. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u53	A respectable president. I wanted to thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for providing yet another bill that confirms regulations in relation to the financial environment of the country. As we have sadly had to soup up, the regular environment that we lived for over a decade ago was at the time of the collapse that we could not keep track of what was being done. Some of the regulations that we are being given here are regulations that have not yet been returned to this country because the legal basis has not been established. This particular bill presents a long-term investment fund. They are very suitable tools for a pension fund and for others who are trying to invest longer, but they can also be useful tools for the state or other organisations building wood, e.g. In the field of transportation, energy, education, and so forth, as shown in this bill. So it is important that we create an investment environment here in the country that is comparable to what is being done in other parts of Europe and that we can use the order of the environment to create an investment system such as the government has. access to improved infrastructure in this country, which is often difficult to find for a short time through budgets and so on. It's a pleasure to have this bill delivered, and it's my hope that it will go through the committees. We need to start seeing both Icelandic long-term investor or someone making use of a European fund that receives these laws as a possibility of marketing on land.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u54	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the insurance policy laws and the business of pension funds. The bill includes proposals to make room for pension funds for investments in foreign currency. The bill suggests that the potential for pensions to be increased by investments and that their ability to live up to the future pension bonds is thus strengthened. Then the bill suggests that the sources of pensions are laid out for electronic publication on credit statements from funds and information on future pension rights. An ennobling law binds electronic release to the approval of a business partner. Changes to the currency risk of pensions are as follows: 1st That the minimum amount of money in a domestic currency will drop from 50% to 35% in several steps and that a minister will be obliged to evaluate the need for other separations no later than in 2027. 2. That there is no need for a pension fund if its currency is above the allowed limits due to changes in the Icelandic bank's gang or an increase in foreign markets, but while this situation remains, it will be forbidden to establish new commitments for property in foreign currency. 3. That pension funds will be made up of property in a domestic currency that is equal to the pension pay of the next three years. 4. That there is no longer a requirement for deduction agreements on the actual value of the day and that there is a clearer understanding that pension funds are permitted to make consequences that can create a debt on their balance accounts. Based on recent growths, from 12% to 15.5%, and how it is likely that the national age mix will develop the Icelandic Pension Fund will continue to grow until the 1950's. A larger pension system enhances the pressures of the funds on a domestic financial market and a national impact. In that case, pension funds have said that the current peak of high - risk markets puts great restrictions on investments that are difficult to set and conform to the most economic policies for funds. So these views may be met in the bill to suggest that the minimum of domestic property funds be reduced from 50% to 35%, or about 1.5 percentage points from January 1, 2024 to January 1, 2027, followed by a minimum of 1 percent on January 1 every year until 35% on January 1, 2036. It was not advisable to take larger steps in space at this time, especially in view of the immediate conversion of the bill, changes in function and increases in foreign markets are not to be expected to make arrangements for the payment of the currency risk within the legal criteria. So that gives you an additional range of slacks. However, the bill suggests that a minister will be obliged to evaluate the need for a change in the ratio and the lead-in period no later than 2027. In effect, this obligation to evaluate the need has been established due to the indications made in the case of a review procedure. The conclusion, then, is that if there are very different views about how the situation will develop over the next few years, it is only likely to ensure that it will be evaluated within a reasonable period of time and that it is legal. It is hoped that there will be a better way for this way of reconciliation, the way this is presented, in which any consideration has already been made. A respectable president. The bill's proposal for change in pension investments is based on an analysis and a report made by the Department's former bank manager Már Guðmundsson. This report has been published publicly in the political consultations. The bill's report focuses on the main results of this report, as well as on the main analyses of other experts on the need to invest in pensions in recent years. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to the Economic and Business Committee and to the 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u55	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the contributions of the bill which is necessary, and I believe many have waited for it to appear. A few comments have been received about the bill, including From the Nationality of Pension Funds, who have thought that it would not cover long enough, too short steps would be the steps, and time would be way too long, whether they have talked about 2027 versus 2036, and that the steps would have to be 2◯3% a year. There are reasons why this is suggested by the National Association of Pension Funds. It is, of course, a large part of the financial expenses needed for the next few years and the potential benefit of investment needs can have on the domestic market. I wondered if it was examined. I realize that some of the changes have been made to the percentage as mentioned in the bill, but I ask if a minister thinks it's gone far enough and if it wasn't right to listen to the pension fund's viewpoint on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u56	A respectable president. Like what? A senator came into it, however, has had some consideration for these comments, as is attributed to the review section of the bill. The comments appeared in the consultation riddle, and the bill has changed since it was published there. On the contrary to what may be the case. A member of this body is a report leading to the billing process, and it suggests that these changes may be too dangerous. Here, it is important to remember what the amount of the pension fund is as a proportion of land production. We have a pension fund system now, which is about twice the world's unique, extraordinary positive product of course, testifying to the vision and caution that we've wanted to show in the long term when it comes to commitments that we are committed to, whether it is part of a public pension fund or others, so that the quality of the population that comes into the pension. These are the main reasons, that if things are overreached, they may be too burdensome for national preparation as a whole. I notice again that it will be legal under the bill to review this position after a few years, and then things may look different. We'll have to wait and see. In the meantime, though, we've made sure that the rules will be more clear than originally put in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u57	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his answer. In some way, we are always taking into account the currency's position at any given time. If the pension funds are to be given free card to go out with money, it can certainly affect the position of the crown. Well, that's what you seem to be the former bank manager has been pointing out, that this could be a problem, perhaps even causing our dollar to get sick, as they say. We're talking about the funds of those who've put them through paid jobs, and I think it's kind of ironic that we have to put them down for investments when it's thought that they can be of use to funds companies. It's all hanging on our currency, so, of course, you think it's a little strange that the pensions are in this position because in controlled countries these amounts are not there. Or it may also be looked to as if it might temporarily weaken the crown while the pension funds are going out, but, of course, it will strengthen the crown when the money comes back in to pay a pension. Do we have to worry so much that our pension fund is actually interrupting that much of the crown's gang?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u58	A respectable president. Yeah, there's this really important thing we're talking about here, the one with the payment equation. A few years ago, in 2017, I was concerned about this matter and asked for a report published by the experts, if I recall correctly, early in 2018. was evaluating the need for increased foreign investments. At that time, the question had been asked if we should have floors on foreign investments rather than roofs, at a minimum rather than a peak. The report encouraged us to reevaluate this from 2020 or in 2021 if I recall correctly, which we have been doing. We have learned that because of the fine growth of the funds in recent years, there is a need to increase this roof. We're not working on the floor yet, but we're making quite a change. There's just so much to say. I think if we take a look at the interests of the pensioners themselves, it'll only be said that a brain has been successful in keeping their interests in check. We've had a growing pension rights in the country, and as I started here, the situation in Iceland is in many ways very envious of that subject. The Icelandic pension system has recently received very good judgments in comparison with other countries. It's the right thing to do, but here we're wondering if it's big enough. Only time can reveal that, and after a few years we want to review the matter again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u59	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for bringing in this bill. Like what? paritaprevir Einarsson pointed out that it should have appeared a little earlier. You see, it's been this way with an investment environment in Iceland that the currency capital and how limited pension funds could invest outside of Iceland made it possible for the pension fund to become pretty much all the companies in this country. That can be good and bad. One thing is that if we had another collapse, we'd have the pension rights, or the property of the pensions, way too attached to the Icelandic economy and what was going on inside. Thus, it is important to open up more to have foreign possessions, but of course it must be done in a way that does not adversely affect the currency's position. I was surprised to find out. A senator who was before me in opposition forgot to mention that everything could be solved by the European Union. I'm sure it was just forgettable. It's a pleasure to see that the bill, like the highest. One minister pointed out, an article explaining that no later than 2027 should determine whether it is possible to go faster or even slower on these matters. I think it is very important for the Ministry to pay close attention to the impact of this process and inform the council of it. Then the council may make changes very quickly. As sometimes happens, this bill also fell into a change that has nothing to do with currency or possessions in different currency but that allows pension funds to be printed electronically on a website. This is something that we need to be able to do with a lot of things these days, and the only thing I get to do with mail is from the pension fund. However, I would like to encourage the minister to consider that one of the changes in pension funds and how people were allowed to choose a pension fund in the United States was that there were also demands that pension funds reveal further information about the cost of pension paid by a pensioner. When you deposit money into your special property savings, are you at any cost or not? This surprised me when I moved home after living abroad. I was going to see what pension fund I wanted to pay for. I couldn't see the cost anywhere. I could see the extent of the fruitage that I had received in recent years, but I could not see how much I was paying for it. Although it may not be possible to stuff one sentence into this bill, I think it might be worth a lot to a pensioner to realize when, they're choosing a pension fund, what pension fund takes a higher percentage. This, in particular, is important for young people who are now depositing in a pension fund and who may want to take it out after 30 to40 years, each percent taken at the expense of extraordinary importance, as we know who remember the old advertisements on television about growth and growth. You see, each percent of the cost can mean millions after 40 years. It is my hope that this bill will travel quickly and easily through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u60	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for its history. I welcome the steps here to clear up the sources of pensions for foreign investments, thus increasing their potential for high - risk distribution. International property distribution is its top priority, especially for a small economy such as Iceland, that the funding system provides the success of what we expect, and that the profites of funds from funds are laid down. The League of colleges points out that during the past decade, the deposit of pensions has increased on average three times faster than the real value of economic growth in Iceland. This, of course, is the result of what happened here and after a collapse when banks collapse and pension funds enter and become very judgmental in Icelandic employment during a capital crisis. In his report Risk Distribution or isolation, Ásgeir Jónsson and Hersir Sigurgeirsson trace the investment of pension funds in foreign stocks, a large increase can be expected to produce them without an increased risk. While the right percentage of foreign assets of the property is dependent on various reasons, it is expected that domestic stocks will produce better than foreign sources, the result is that the percentage of foreign property should never be below 30%. If the expected yield of local and foreign messages is expected, the ratio should not be below 40%. In addition, considering the specific risks of the Icelandic stock market, such as its small size, it is more likely that the desirable share of the foreign money may be even higher. In fact, if we look at the holdings of foreign pension funds, we will find that in countries with a comparable pension system and in Iceland, the percentage of foreign property is all equal to 40%, and in many countries the proportion is much higher. Of the Norwegians, the percentage of foreign property of the pension system, including the oil fund, is approximately 93%. Here in Iceland, in a centennial economy, the maximum of foreign assets at the pension fund has been 50% since the turn of the century, yet the share of their possessions in foreign currency has been much lower. Last year, 36% of the Pension Fund's property in foreign currency went to the highest of 45%. This is especially due to uncertainty about the gangs of the Icelandic Crown, since changes can easily float the funds up to the 50% target, moving them to correct the situation very quickly, which calls them to an adverse business. And who is it that carries the edge of this? Who carry the risk of limited investments, that all the eggs are placed in the same basket, or at least quite a number of them? Well, it's corpsmates. It's the people that pay for the pension fund and collect their rights. The same people are inclined by unfair losses due to pensions. It is not possible to talk about the fund collection system of pension rights without referring to how increasing the accumulation of rights in pensions has not returned naturally in the better supply of funds, but, in all too much, was being used to save the State's expenditures for the welfare of the public insurance department. As we in our government situation, we will not tire of pointing to the limit to social security, simply overindulging our income. We're talking about $25,000. a non-employment target and this vacation market for postponed employment, i.e. Pension income, now one eighth of the pay line for ordinary employment. What does this conflict between income and pension funds mean for the taxes and the benefits of extra income for older people? Yes, if we take a pensioner who lives alone and has very limited rights in the pension fund, let's say 50,000 bucks, then the income is 316,495 k. every month and if he earns 200,000 bucks. in the labour market, the resources increase by 124,100. The rest will remain in the state because of taxes and taxes and taxes, and the peripheral tax burden of these extra incomes is thus 38%. What about the pensioner who can't work anymore, however, has far more rights in a pension fund than the previous one? What's his worth of 200,000 bucks? supplementary pension income, i.e. If his pension income is 200,000 or higher? What are the benefits? That's 53,487 k. And the weight of these revenues for a person who may have, Working on long hours of work, and having to retire for health reasons is 73%. It's just a matter of eating up the benefits of the collection. I think Professor Stefán Ólafsson made it very rational in a report he published on the social security system last year, where he runs how the range of the damages at the TR is more than half of what the majority of pensioners get from a pension fund. This is in force for the State to take on more than the sum of all the profits of pensions, and if we consider the income tax, it can also be said that the benefits of growing income from the pension fund are at a rate of between 70 and80 percent. Thus, in effect, the State has become the principal pensioner of the pension fund. Is this what helped workers in the labour market and legislatures in 1969 when this fund collection system was set up in relation to collective agreements, in effect to free the state from these government funds of public security and to transfer them directly to the pension fund and their owners, their funds? I'll let me doubt it. But back to the subject of this bill. There are very large and important steps being taken to help with the increased risk distribution, but at the same time, these are cautious steps. The sources are up-to-date in terms of payment balance to not disrupt economic stability. It seems to me that I have responded well to comments presented in the consultation puzzle. Of course, the bill will get deeper coverage on that subject. The Economic and Business Committee. No doubt there are other helpful comments. In the foundation, we support this case in the United States, and we celebrate it, and we want to pay it as much as possible to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u61	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the bill to legalize the commitment of life insurance rights and the operation of pension funds, No. 129/1997. These are changes in materials that are of great importance and that will contribute to the future of the investments of pensions. It could be said that pension funds came from a collapse of some kind. Remember that our weak currency collapsed, and what helped them was that pension funds increased their investments within the country to support the currency, as well as to support companies who needed and rebuild many of them. There are some important changes in this matter. The first is to allow pension funds to invest in abroad 65% of their possessions, not 50%, and as has since been the maximum currency risk became binding on investment decision, not because of the respect of foreign property funds. It's a big thing. When you consider this subject, it has been noted that many pensions have come quite close to the extent that they have simply trusted to stay on. I guess that was a way of assessing the foreign property of the pension fund was about 35% at the same time it was 50%. Some pension funds have been up to 45%, so they're getting close to that 50%. Participating in gang gangs has been a problem, causing many of these pension funds simply not to rely on them to attack foreign investments because of the crown's position at any given time. By this, it seems like you're being reassigned, and you're supposed to help, although you'll always be able to make sure that your pensions are worth at least Three - year - old pensions in the country pay to meet the pension payments they have to show up in the next three years. I think most of the time this is a good bill, but it's certainly been made up of that comment, especially from the Land Association of Pension, who has wanted to go faster into these changes, has been watching to even take 2353% every year instead of 1% as originally. This was taken into account by the pension fund and went up to 1.5% and for four years. The pension fund also wanted to start this march in 1923, not 2024, but it has not yet been done. We're seeing our pension system grow each year, both the pension fund is doing business, and then pensioners are increasing each year. I think I've seen somewhere that the financial needs of the pensions are around 400 billion a year, and coming to work is pretty big. The question is, What can Icelandic markets take over, and what effect can the investments of pensions have on the market? Of course, it is something that has been pointed out from the pension fund, and not just theirs but many others, including them. I think the former bank manager pointed out that too much of the pension fund on the domestic market could have a significant impact and cause, I don't want to say vaccination, but we can see e.g. What happens on the market here about real estate prices. When the pensions have to be buying companies and investors, it can mean that other investors just don't get in. It creates a significant imbalance in this investment market within the country. I think it's a valid indication that it can have a significant benefit if the pensions don't get out with their money and so on, as said here, not always have all the eggs in the same basket. You have the right to try to spread risks, and I think that may be the objective of the pension fund. Of course, they are patient investors and have to be able to save money, not just for a year, but for a long time. People are starting to pay in the pension fund at 16 years of age, and they may be paying until 67 years of age, and the money needs to wait and they need to work on it. So every time, the funds of life need to look for ways to maximise the growth that has, in fact, been more efficient in the past. We've lost a lot of things. Although many were lost in the collapse, the financial funds did not end up as badly from the collapse as many others, perhaps because of their excess of others. At that point, they were excited about the fall of the crown's gang. You just think it's a little sour that you're taking a position with the crown, not just pension funds, but investors. Our gang can be rocked relatively easily. I just wanted to mention that at one point during the meeting, a battle conference, the Southnes labor movement, in Stapa, May 1, and while we were at the meeting for two hours, part of the money went missing through the window because the dollar fell. This was because an uncalled rural society was acquiring money to pay off foreign loans. All of this, of course, is a bit unstable and doesn't have to be like this. It's just this environment we've created ourselves. To say, I think what's happening here is just the good thing, that pension funds can continue to spread the risk, and then they may be able to take full advantage of this 65%, but not as in the past they were afraid to go up to 50% because walking logs could affect whether they needed to own or sell. I urge that we just let it go through quickly and quickly and that this will come true soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u62	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of support for innovation companies, extension of temporary regulations. The bill suggests changes to provisional regulations in support of innovation companies, No. 152/2009, and in terms of changes, the extension of temporary measures affecting the recovery of innovation companies due to their activities in 2020 and 2021. It is suggested that the provisional directives be extended in a way that extends to the deduction of the available income tax from innovations in 2020 due to the management year 2022. If the preliminary rules are not to be extended, total tax recovery will decrease to 20% from the prescribed income tax and the maximum cost to calculate the loss of the available income tax products to 600 million. K. 900 million. K. Due to the cost of research or development. In other words, this means that we have arrived here in the latter part of May, and the companies in the country are not yet sure that research and development work that will be done this year will be in accordance with the rules that have been valid in the last two years where there is an increased tax appeal. It's a special catalyst that we've established at the time, a special supplement to ensure that research and development are carried out in Iceland. We believe that it is proper to extend these provisions with extension of the provisional arrangement. However, there is the possibility that the overall system will be reviewed, including with OECD as agreed with OECD, we have support from there to take out the overall functioning of the system. It also suggests that the wills of provisional regulations do not go as far as they once were. This is to allow their estimated cost to be in line with a proposal for a financial resolution plan for the years 20233/42/2027 and to be at the expense of the potential increase in applications to Ranni. Thus, the withdrawal rate to SMEs is expected to decline from 35 per cent to 30 percent and the maximum cost to calculate the withdrawal rates from the estimated income tax dropped from 1,100 billion. K. In 1,000 million. K. The estimated cost in 2023 is 10.3 billion dollars. Otherwise, the cost of supporting a innovation company in 223 would have been 7.9 billion. The bill thus includes an estimated increase of 2.4 billion. These figures show that we have a support system that releases 10 billion, and if we put it in context with a total income tax bill in Iceland, this is a considerable amount of money that really requires us to review the benefits of this and we're adjusting it regularly, if you can put it that way, the screws all right so that we're getting the results. He's the one I mentioned, creating a basis in Iceland for competitive employment, where research and development work thrives vigorously because we believe that it can guarantee very long-term valuable jobs and exports as well as that Iceland is some kind of middle or sludge investments in this area will benefit the entire population for a very long time. This idea, however, is to compete with changes that extend beyond mere research and development. That's why I'm putting this money in the context of total pay taxes because you also need to ask yourself: " What would have happened if we had spent those large sums simply to reduce the total income tax? It could count in a few percent that we could reduce the income tax of all citizens for the amount of money we are paying on the basis of research and development. But it is our belief that just this part of the operation, research and development work, can create so much more than any value in the long term that justifies the specific legislation we have here. But we should allow ourselves to question and ask questions and review these questions, and that work is right now. We're here to contribute to continuing growth in e.g. In recent years, intelligent articles that have taken quite a stir. Exports from such articles have grown dramatically, work has grown dramatically, and opportunities are thought to result in further growth and the ability to advance to the community for good. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u63	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers for their advance and rejoice in what he continues to use the government to achieve a particular policy of employment and to influence the quality of the sector to grow and thrive, to use the systems and tools and tools of the government to establish a particular employment policy, as it were. It is a cause for rejoicing. I'd like to go under the top, please. A minister's comments received from the Tax when a very similar bill was submitted to the last legislation. The tax, in effect, warns against the misuse of this resources, says that there has been a number of methods that have been involved in the general cost of operating costs and costs that are considered to be rather natural reforms of the available products that the company has earned under the cost of confirmed innovation products. The tax gives particular reason to point out that no special laws on the application of pressures or other penalties have been made to respond and provide a warning effect on conduct that is not in harmony with these laws. I just want to ask the highest. Minister if he sees a reason to respond to these comments of the IRS and whether there is a need for some action to contribute to the abuse of these other important measures in the interest of innovation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u64	A respectable president. Yes, I believe that there is a reason to react to this and that we are actually initiating the response to this review of the rules I referred to. It is a great project for the government to accept all this reimbursement. We are here for research and development investments, which, as we have seen, can study more than 10 billion. It would be difficult for an crazy person to review each case and to dive into one of the budgets and ask himself: " Is this part of the study cost and the cost of development, or is this some other thing? These weaknesses have been made manifest, and we have been concerned about them for some reason, especially because of the rapid growth of these weaknesses. We have also seen efforts to maximise the benefit of a company's rules by apparently dividing itself into two companies and applying for as two non- family members, thus benefiting from the maximum financial value on both sides. This will make the system better for one person if he apply with two applications under each social security number. For this, we have actually taken along a change that has already taken place. There is no surprise, though, that when such a rich favor is involved or that much money and interests depend on, all means of seeking are used to minimize tax pay. It's not to be surprised. The system has grown very fast in a short period of time, so it was time to put on the stitches as it is being done today. We hope to get a report on the results of this assessment in September.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u65	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for clear answers. Then I'd like a second year ago to hear the highest viewpoint. Secretary of the budget for a proposal here from The Thomson in the same review. The tax is urging the legislatator to state clearly whether the cost of cost from an associated person should be paid for a strong cost or not. It is now only taken into account in general the cost of non-related research and development work. Section 6. The law. I ask: Is there any reason to say whether the cost of a related person will depend on a strong cost or not and just to counteract the abnormal uses of the alternative?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u66	A respectable president. I think we just have to take this indication seriously. It is difficult to say whether it is possible to say, is it obvious that this has to be done? We could make a living, for example. some very specific case, a very specific service for an investigational project. This may be related to a person's being one of the few who could be considered a bunker for the investigation. You could imagine some very technical company, such as Icelandic genetic analysis or Alvogen or who it might be. But even companies like Elkem of Grundartans have been using these legislations to go on research projects and attract very special staff, doctors in all kinds of sciences, to increase the value of production. I understand the tax, they want the rules to be simple so they can easily be observed. There's an efficiency theory. On the other hand, we need to be sure that we are not ruining the purpose of the act of order.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for what is presented here. This is a happy day for us sitting here, both in smaller parts and in more parts. This is a matter that is being brought up, one by one, of the other, for which the general agreement is toward each other. It's good, positive, and it's a good change from the flotation that may sound more often in this room. If words are right and they are properly presented and even a few times - a drop may sometimes have to hollow the stone - it is my experience that a person will listen and respond in a positive way. Perhaps one of the reasons why I'm not very uncomfortable with the greater part is that I have been helping to present issues similar to those discussed here, matters that have been welcomed and made legal. Another subject of similar nature was here to discuss, to raise reimbursement in the movie sector from 10% to 35%, and to make us more competitive. I learned it for some decade or so that, if you want something to go through, you can do it in a more polite and purposeful way rather than save your mouth and your foul language. I remember a few decades ago, in the mid - 1990's, when I met at a movie festival a man who carried out the distribution of all the biggest movies in Great Hollywood. He said, "We'll take all our distributions through Luxembourg." It's the most practical thing for us. If you're in Iceland, for example. Then we'll take it all to Iceland. It's just an accountant and accounting thing. We, being a part of the European Economic Area, but not in the European Union as such, may have a set of space that we would not otherwise have, regardless of what humans think about ethics in this and the rest. There's a certain tax charge here, and here's a reimbursement of a reimbursement. I just want to hear the secretary of finance's reaction to the ideas of this kind, whether they still have them on the platform. During that time, I accompanied my Sigurjón, Sighvatsson, a movie producer, a friend of mine for many years, and we met the then financial minister, the predecessor of the highest court, and had a close discussion on this very matter. The case was referred to as committee. The officers and vice presidents were appointed. It was a multi-organized committee, and she took a year to make a review of the case, then returned to the government table a very thick summary of filmmaking in Iceland, which was not at all what was requested. In so doing, it dried up an opportunity. But I think it's still there. Happily, in recent years my experience with governments is not that. This is an example of lack of enthusiasm and a lack of understanding. I'm just calling it here because I'm glad that men are accepting good ideas that might have been fanciful 20 years ago, giving such a rabble as they're talking about in this excellent bill. I'd also like to ask the minister: Is it not true that, in addition to these unique conditions that are being developed by Icelandic innovation companies, there are a number of billions of sources of motivation? Perhaps we're here talking about the almost 15 billion people we're providing for the many people who want to make the most of the long - term double means of coming up with an idea, developing it, and turning it into a lucrative business, and sometimes so successful. Some of the funds I know to work in California, just like that. In the video game sector, bets per 100 companies a year, and if two or three of them get any results, then it works. I am out of harmony with the very spirit of the laws that are being discussed here, and I believe that most of us are doing in this hall and in this council. But there were these two points I just wanted to get a quick response and won't use the nine and a half minutes I've got to mash here into one and put me in a group of requests for the Allell's ball game. I'm not there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u68	A respectable president. I'll try to handle this. Yes, I think the matter we're discussing here is an example of an effort of the order as a function. A senator was calling in his time. Here earlier today, the minister of culture and business also recommended a reimbursement bill for the production of larger projects in the film sector, some of which were using the same arguments as presented here, although the project is somewhat different. You're right about what you're talking about. In addition to this right to reimburse us, we have a competitive fund where support can be applied. It is mainly a research fund, which is the basis for the research and then the Technical Development Fund, when the projects are done only. Added to this, we have recently taken further steps, such as with the Korean institution and now the last Lóa. These are funds built up by government funds to ensure that adequate risk resources are present for growing companies. I'm particularly impressed with our installation in Korea because we weren't working on the task of building diagnostic skills and expertise in the management system but said that if the professionals had digested the case and decided to invest them, the fund would be ready to invest.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd like to know, if he's got it between his ears, what these funds are up to, a sub, a brand-new fund, and what he mentioned here, for this sector. I think we can be proud of the amount that's higher. I also ask whether ideas like those Sigurjón for his prehuman Sighvatsson in the mid - 1990's were superior to the platform here in 2022 or whether something like this has bound us in such offers, as the nations are usually in order to attract assignments in movies and other projects. So, if any particular tax percentages of foreign movies and television programs were distributed - if they were to be referred to here, could we accept such a position in Europe? Although Luxembourg does, could we? That is really the two questions I would like to respond to if the highest. Ministers have them in hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u70	A respectable president. We've been expanding this savings quite a bit, and they've been sailing toward 10 billion if I remember correctly. Over the last few years, this sector of economics has been focused on by the Scientific and Technical Council. We had a strategy that suggested that we have about 3% of the national production that would go on projects like this, a new creation project. It is safe to say that as the economy took over and the stock market took over, and the added attractions were introduced, and further support has been provided through this fund, the overall investment in the economy has also grown very much. We have come to say that we are fulfilling our long - range goal of supporting such activities in our country or in the economy. But whether we are still in the midst of a number of tasks, such as the assignment. A senator says about the distribution, I think it might well be. In reality, this is just a matter of being ready to do what is needed to make sure that we are competitive. But there is also a great deal of competition between countries and regions, and in some places it seems to me that people are going a long way. I'll mention, for example, that in Ireland the way was to drop half of the income tax for an enterprise of this kind, and then they were down to 6.25% income tax, while the tax rate had been 11.5%.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u71	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for his second answer. I didn't expect to have one in my own room, but I won't. I just want to thank you for a positive reaction to the idea that his predecessor lost focus on years ago, in the '90s. Let us take up that thread again because we have full authority to do so. I'm, as I've previously spoken of from this chair, preoccupied with our spending stocks of state funds to ensure that everyone has enough to take a knife and spoon and that the idea of 350,000 bucks. The tax and derelicts that we in Floki feel are the least to survive in this good country, but our animal land can be realized. Any ideas that could help us this way, I'll go to the highest. Ministers in hopes that they will be received and welcomed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u72	Those were just the answers to a talk given at any given moment. Senator. Normally, members of Congress contend with the minister and then the minister finishes, but this time it was the senator who finished.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u73	A respectable president. Here's a bill on the extension of temporary rules in support of a innovation company. In my conversations with people of the innovation sector, it has just discussed the importance of this way to support innovation. One of the things they have mentioned in this regard is that there is a tendency to get it too much. At the same time, it has been pointed out, e.g. by the tax, the possible damage to legislation and the possibility of abuse. Of course, you need to work hard to ensure both transparency and monitoring in all company support, not just in this particular bill, and e.g. It is important to consider whether there is a law against not following up, giving out the wrong information, or anything else. Why are we making investments at this point, i.e. to restore a certain amount of research costs and development? You see, supporting a innovation company in this way helps make Iceland a competitive country when it comes to innovation. The authors of innovation have made it clear to me that if this support was not available, most of it would be operating abroad. That is exactly what we do not want to do. We want to build an environment that supports innovation, which makes this an opportunity for us to create a technology that in some cases can even save the world. Investment in reimbursement is a reimbursement that results in considerable recovery. We talked earlier today about reimbursement at the cost of film making. It's just very similar. Perhaps some of the difference is that this investment does not necessarily attract tourists to the same degree as beautiful nature does on movies or TV shows, but it attracts employees from all over the world, from the technology sector, which makes opportunities and makes certain ties here to Iceland that can make it more productive innovation, which is just what we want to see. Like what? paritaprevir Jakob Frímann Magnússon noted earlier, it is not enough to have just a few support for our economy. The creative articles, innovation, filmmaking, and other factors are important, also to break up what happens if any of the other foundations collapse. We can see how the financial sector had become firm some 14 years ago and then collapsed overnight. [[Upwards in the midst, The Turks.]] We've seen a tourist crash because of a pandemic. We can even begin to see that something is reducing the industry we've built up here on environmental and climate issues. So it is vital that we have many support for our economy, and this is certainly one way to ensure it and to work very closely to build a economy that is partly based on this innovation. It's like the highest. The secretary of finance pointed out is the provision for a pandemic and is being extended at least one more year. It was a pleasure to hear that the highest. A minister is having a new report cooperated with OECD on how to have this long-term support environment. It is important for movie companies who are creating TV shows, many of them, to look to the future, that certain conditions are not just years and years at the same time, and for innovation companies, they can look ahead. This has been demonstrated in the countries that provide support right now - and the other one as high as possible. Minister and minister. A senator discussed the past in the form of support and other funds - that it is important that these be things of long - term duration so that you can be confident that they are there. It is my hope that when this is to be considered in the long run, it is to the point that it is a matter of importance where it is developing in the modern world. Supporting innovation in companies that have even existed for 40 years, or even 20 years, is a completely different innovation and a completely different support from a new creation company needed for a few years. It needs to be watched carefully. There was a bit critical of this particular device, in part, that might be to support companies who have been operating for decades. But they also need models, and they need careful consideration. V.E.G. A minister asked if it might have been better simply to reduce income taxes to all legal agencies rather than to have such a reimbursement. I'd like to encourage a minister not to watch it because what experts in this field have found is exactly that having special prognosis for the innovation companies has a completely different effect and a better growth effect on the innovation than so as to reduce the income tax on all companies. It is also my hope that in the fall, when the report that OECD and others are working on will be in progress, we will have a deep consultation with the innovation community in Iceland to ensure that the ideas that are presented in the report are relevant and that there is a good agreement between the state and the innovation of our society how we can work together to ensure that here we are building a newfound country in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u74	A respectable president. I'm not going to have a lot of words here about this bill. However, I would like to come up here and express my joy that it has come to pass. This, of course, is something we need to take good care of. In many ways, we have been submerged by many other control countries in this regard. As this points out, there are extreme competitions for innovation companies, and many countries have striven to create an environment that can attract such companies and give them the opportunity to grow. Of course, we just have to face this. Just as we were doing today on reimbursement on filmmaking, this field is much less important and even more important if it is. I just want to remind you that companies such as Assur and Marel, who came into existence here, have created something of great value, but they may not have enjoyed any special appeal on the part of the State. We have a wand here all over a community that needs an environment to grow. Hence, it is vital that we nurture such trials by supporting them, at least while they are about to begin. It is not much about the bill to say otherwise than it is that this provisional principle is being extended only between 2020 and 2021, and that if this bill had not been taken into consideration, it would have gone down to over seven more if the bill had not been taken for treatment. It's interesting, actually, that the bill didn't go on a consultation mystery. I don't know exactly why this rush had to be because of this bill, but good and good, it's been discussed, as the bill says, at the university, industrial and innovation Ministry, and Ranni's in its processing. So some have had something to say about this bill. We have plenty of opportunities to use the products that are present here, the resources available. All we know is that back in the day, we didn't want to eat cod, we just wanted to eat exaggerators and put our cod skins on salt fish or crawl into Nigeria. Since then, many things have changed. Of course, we have become known only for the use of our sea products far beyond what many other countries have done. There is a great need to examine the potential for further use of natural resources with various additional products. Many have started on the road to making supplements, including something you just had to melt in the old days. It is important that such individuals have the opportunity to do such work with some sort of attraction. I want, for example. Consider a highly progressive project, such as the Seaguard that has been working on these issues. It is of utmost importance that there will be knowledge, status, and, of course, just funding so that these companies can care for their best interests, develop things, and work with them instead of having to worry about money from day to day. One is now a company called Carbonx, which we are very proud to see become reality, that we are becoming solutions so that we can destroy the pollution we create. There are all kinds of opportunities, and that's why I think we'll drive this bill through as soon as possible. But we have to remember that we don't change things like this just once. This should be a long - term goal. We need to continue working with this and provide such companies with some capacity for building stability in their business. It must be scary for many of these people who are trying to create innovation to worry about whether they have to close their company tomorrow or not. Stability in this - we need to think this long - term. Of course, many people who invest in innovation have the patient capital needed for it. It is essential that immune capitals be increased to innovation, and there the government can play a large part.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u75	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new overall law on money market funds. The bill calls for the introduction to the European Parliament and the Council's Regulation (EEC). 2017/1131 on cash markets. The main focus of the bill is the legalisation of the Regulation and the necessary rules, such as the handling, the repairs and sentences of the administration directive. The purpose of this Regulation is to promote financial stability and increase investment protection. At the same time, the purpose of the Regulation is to avoid harm to investors who request late financial solutions, especially when the market is agitated. This Regulation aims to ensure that the source of funds is sufficient to meet the investors'demands for solutions and that the funds can keep the promise of a constant price despite difficult market conditions. The Regulation discusses conditions for the establishment of funds markets and conditions for operating and the marketing of such funds. First of all, the principle of the Regulation is that the rules apply to funds that are either stocks or special funds and that they invest in short-term holdings and that have the goal of offering yields in accordance with the money market growth or yields that preserve the value of investment. Second, the cash market owner must have a work permit as either the stockbroker's company or the head of a specialist fund. A third requirement is that money markets have received confirmation as such, and this is true in all EU Member States. Fourth, a cash market must be run on one of the three regulations required by the Regulation. Different rules apply in certain cases to each individual species, such as the value of possessions and the calculation of internal values. Money market funds are such as short-term money markets or traditionals, and they apply special risk management rules depending on the source. Fifth, allowing investments in money markets as well as how to make collections and risk distributions. There are sixth terms on risk management and prices, estimates of the value of share in money markets and solutions. The seventh rule is that money markets are not to be given external support, which includes both direct and indirect support from the third party, which is intended or is actually involved in securing the level of sales or in stabilising the internal value of material items. In the eighth place it is stated that the European stock market (EC) will remain outside the official central database for information including all the money markets that have received confirmation, kinds of funds, their operators, and the legal authorities. The bill also suggests changes in the stock market law, No. 116/2021, so that their law on money markets would be removed. There are also changes to the law on official financial control, No. 87/1998, of the fact that European Risk Funds, European Social Resources, European Long-term Investment Funds, and funds markets are subject to monitoring under the legal requirements. A respectable president. The regulations proposed in the bill are merely to influence the operators who decide to offer up a cash market. The demand for new funds on the basis of the legislature is unknown in itself. It's hard to figure out how many funds are already in business here on the country that comes to agree with the rules. In addition, increased responsibilities are added to the host of funds that are involved in managing funds, such as in the application for confirmation of the funds and monitoring their investment policies, risk management, property prices, etc. The proposed legislation is expected to increase the activities of the UN, but it is thought that the impact of the implementation of the Regulation and its preparation will be within the current budget and the impact on the state funds will therefore not be affected. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u76	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for filing this bill, which is a law-enforcement of EEA regulations on the money market we talked about earlier in spring. As the report on the bill says, by permission of the President: It was found that the promise of a set-of-the-art commitment could not always be fulfilled and that diplomas would stay and, in many cases, resulted in large solutions from investors. The regulations of this Regulation aim to prevent this from repeating itself. In fact, many put money in the cash market, often for short-term investments, especially because these funds were considered very safe, but as we saw sadly in October 2008, it was not as safe as they thought, except for those people who heard that things might not be exactly going in the right direction and could be solved during the days and weeks before the collapse. Money markets work to provide short - term investments, often by buying a bond of government and of other lawgivers. This is often done for a short period of time, and the fruitage may not be much, but at least a little higher than if you keep the money under your pillow, except, of course, when the crash comes. It is very important that this bill succeeds because it ensures more financial stability and added protection for those investing in such funds. In particular, in the bill it is taken to make sure that if the market is under strain, as it happened in October 2008, it is not so that those who last heard of the possibility that there is a collapse, and would like to take their money out of these cash markets, would lose more than those who learned to know through friends and carefuls that there might be something about to happen. This is done by watching that selling funds is sufficient to be released. But it is not just that we are ensuring a better policy around the money market fund, which we might have done a little sooner than they ended up in the collapse, but that the introduction to this particular Regulation and this bill is the result that Icelandic people have the ability to operate and market their funds for landstones and countries in the European Economic Areas and vice versa, i.e. European funds markets can market such funds in this country. This, of course, makes it possible for us to gain access to more money markets than has been possible so far, even in other interest and successes. Of course, it's something that doesn't come into the competitive environment of the banking market here. It's a pleasure to have this rule, and it's possible to lay down government fines and other things if you don't follow the rules given in the bill. It is my hope that this bill, like the Regulation related to it, will be treated quickly at the council because it is indeed a requisite and more consumer protection to discuss for people who only want to find a safe place for their money.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u77	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct a church law change, burial and cremation. Its primary purpose is to make changes in the laws of the law, which focus on the importance of church accounting, which includes the indication. has been received from Government Accounting. It's 5 mg. 40. g. The current law will care for the Bishop's bill of the fund, but the bill assumes that the responsibility of the bill will be taken to a church council that seems more comfortable to hold on to it than to the Bishop's office. It is also suggested that laws be dismissed in the same case, where it is stated that the billing of the fund applies to the same rules as the accounting of the churches, since the law is not applicable, if the first change is agreed. The Churchyard Government is under law in the hands of a church council, but it is both appointed members inside and outside the Church to end the role of cemeterys, not bound to the National Church. Since a churchyard is a special financial institution, the office of the bishop is viewed as a pleasure of the Church Park account and is considered to be the change that is put here for it timely. At the same time, this adjustment is suggested that two regulations be removed from the law will depend on Iceland's terrorist partner, where the Society has not been active for more than half a century. On the other hand, it is the authority of the Society that has been submitted to vote for a man in the Churchyard government of the Church of Reykjavík, a test case, and a requirement to consult the Community's Regulation on cremation. This change is primarily to update the law relative to today's situation, i.e. disposing of provisions that refer to some decommissioned social entity, the directives are therefore not considered to belong in the law today. This bill was prepared with a church council and with the office of the bishop of Iceland. A respectable president. After this discussion, I have explained the key points of the bill and suggested that the matter be presented. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u78	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in the discussion section of this report says that 130 of the 128 were received from individuals and the other two from the Tree of Life and Iceland's Bohreak Society. This is not quite true, since one of the 128 individuals gave a review on behalf of Civilian. I'm more impressed with being arrested by the Ministry for not taking that account into account. There are material observations, unlike those in the 129 reviews, especially regarding the separation between the Episcopal Institute and the Church Council. It is, in the review of Civilian, that I find it right, pointed out that it is rather unnatural for a Bishop's office to have a management position in the council if it is intended to serve the whole country. This is an inheritance from an old age in which social conditions in the country were different. And where it's the highest. A minister is moving an accounting fund from the Bishop's office because the Ministry doesn't seem normal that this office is holding the account, so why not take the step to the full, as emphasized in the review of Moral Education by the bishops losing control of the church council? Perhaps first, what was the Ministry's concern not to observe this statement, and why not take the step to the full regarding cutting the entry of the Bishop's office to the cemetery?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u79	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what to say. A senator refers to it so that I find it difficult to express myself about it; I merely direct them to become something that the committee will consider. This is a relatively simple adjustment, and the correcting of the law is in harmony with the present, we can say. I'll direct them to the change as a matter of fact. There is a member of the committee, and he is encouraged to consider it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u80	Madam President. I wondered, " Do I need a fixed procedure about how we will react to the kind of consultation procedure here? ' It is most difficult to remember when it is the highest. The health minister was eager to consult with the patient's organization, when it came to the intervention of the health - care system, had not been acceptable; he decided to withdraw it. This is where the Ministry has gone so far as to ignore entirely the reviews of Civilt, the Moral Manists' partner in Iceland. It is an organization that is most struggling for normal divorces between religious and worldly society. This bill's got something to do with it. Therefore, it would have been so suggested that the Ministry would take this account into consideration, lock it at least, which it did not even, and in some way would have responded to it. I'll just remind you to go to the highest. A health minister responded to the same situation in the past winter by pulling back a bill. The review of Civilian is, for example, one. Pointing to other things that are of some importance to me as to financial and administrative separation from the cemeterys of Reykjavík, the cemetery, and the firehouse because the mortuary is not the legal function of the cemetery. A firehouse is what I would call a basic service in a society where people die and want to be burned, and today a fireroom is fired. She's on time. It must be replaced, and a minister is faced with whether he wants to sink money in allowing the church of the city of Reykjavík to continue his business and receive money from the public or to listen to the tree of life and give them some kind of support to a firehouse that is open to all.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-05-23.u81	A respectable president. I think it might be a bit deep this year to say that this report was ignored. Of course, all reports are addressed to a prime project. However, this is not necessarily so that all suggestions mentioned in the summary are included. It's so different with this whole firehouse thing, it's fine, and I've got it for the Ministry. That's right, as a matter of fact. A senator comes in, namely, a service that needs to be offered. I have considered, despite the fact that there is no law against such things, that the public is really obliged to make sure that this service exists. There have been some people who teach themselves by the tree of life who have proposed to run such a firehouse in the park and in the cemetery of the city of Reykjavík, U.S.A., as well as to expect this in the Gufunes Churchyard. That's me looking at. In both of these ideas, i.e., a fairly high impact is made. It is expected to build a good deal of housing around this, with the products and the like. I wondered, " How far should this take place?'It is necessary that the ministry be there, but I do not necessarily see a reason for the State's involvement in the affairs of any party dealer or other building around it more than is necessary to do this service. It must also be thought of in this regard, for we are a small nation in a large country, how we could be equal between those living in the country, and how we might have more costs than those who live in the vicinity of a possible funeral home who performs this service. It is important that we start making decisions in this matter. As we have seen, these ovens have come to their senses. Things were quite different when these were introduced at the time, the demand is much more today, and we must answer that call.
