ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 791, on board administrations, groups of personnel, comments, advice, etc, from Hildur Jana Gísladóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u2	The President has received talks from the Central Party Parliament on the change of committees, cr. 1.mg. Section 16. Congress, so that Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson takes up residence as the lead on a future committee instead of Bergþór Ólason's son. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u3	To answer, Minister of Wood, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Department of Social Affairs and Employment Services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u4	President. Bank sale is becoming more unusual than films. The minister of culture and commerce, Lilja Dögg Dög Alfreðsdóttir, informed at a council yesterday that she was not the only minister who was concerned about the sales process. Other Ministers of the Ministers' Committee on Economic Affairs, i.e. Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir and Bjarni the son of Benediktsson, also had their own concerns. It was for us here at the council, new information. They said: "All the ministers had their doubts and concerns, but they did nothing to make them aware of their concerns. They did not inform the council, not their councils, not the media or the public. We then heard this morning that a minister of finance merely challenged the doubts of the Ministerial Servants, but the underlying problem is that there were doubts and concerns. We also heard yesterday that the cooperation and cooperation between president and vice president of the advance is excellent. It is close and clear, as could be seen from the talk by the vice president of the advance party. It is, of course, a great pleasure. Hence, the head of the advance party has naturally been aware of the concern of the Minister of Business in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So I'd like to ask, Mr. Honorable President why didn't the head of the Agency do nothing with the vice president's warnings? Why did it take the top? The minister of the seminars and the head of the parish Party rather take sides with the minister of finance and his proposals than his own minister, his own vice president, and, of course, a close and good colleague?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u5	A respectable president. It is true that the forward movement has a strong spirit and harmony in the direction we are working on, and we like to talk and we agree on the way we are going, and it has proved to be well, and the nation has taken note of it, as men experienced in elections in the autumn. With regard to the bank sale, I'd like to say: It's one thing to worry about, comment, worry. That is the nature of our political affairs. However, it is also important for us to listen to the experts. The experts suggested something. As politicians, we must ask whether they are right, and we make our comments, our worries, according to questions, conditions. The situation is, however, that in spite of quite a lot of discussions there was no one, either a Minister or a Government, or here at the council, nor when there was consultation with all the public in the country, all the experts, unfortunately no one, and I'm frustrated with myself, not in this hall, nor the members of Congress that have gone crazy in the last days... -- Speak, excuse me. [[The nation's fault?]] [[The proverb says: "The face of temptation! "]] No one showed that it was wise to set a minimum of what these so - called professional investors should be able to buy for. There was no idea that such conditions would have to be some kind of moral standard. Our lesson in politics is simply that the financial market does not seem to be trustworthy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We must set conditions so that there is no room for interpreters when it comes to selling. [[The president calls.]] I can say it here, too, and maybe I have to sin for a few seconds, Mr President, that the experts we trust have failed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u6	The president reminds us that a speech period in unprimed inquiry is two minutes the first time and one minute the second.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u7	A respectable president. Now I'm trying to look into those answers at the highest level. Minister. So, it's the General's fault. So it's the experts' fault. It is the nation's fault that the government screwed up bank sales, this huge interest for the entire nation. It wasn't the government. It was the people. You were here, Senator World. You asked the wrong questions. It was the experts, and they should have set standards for moral standards. It seems that in administrative regulations that government ministers are required to follow, moral standards are exactly the same. It's called a principle. It is called following its study duty regarding the procedure for the sale. It's pathetic to be here at the council Hall and to hear who else's minister is coming up here and taking responsibility for the whole mess. You're a government officer. You're not local experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u8	A respectable president. When I meant to talk, I got out of my system of things earlier. Then I come now and I have to get an answer for what I said earlier. I said: " I'm frustrated that I didn't react, but I pointed out that no one else had done that but until after that. I'm now ready to write exactly what conditions would have been required to be there so that these things would work out properly, and I guess, well, I guess. þm. Logi me finish talking so I don't get out of bed again, that we're all in this room agree on that. [[Up front.]] I am convinced that the people who disagree with this project, and that I am, too, not at all, would be glad that if we had given them conditions where this would be a reasonable, cool operation, it would be worth more for this government property. We were selling 22%, it was one of 1, 2, 3% that got this thing, and I don't like it, even though it's so small because I feel that it has failed on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u9	A respectable president. An agent of the General Assembly, the District Court, the National Court, and the Supreme Court concluded that the damage to the special property was illegal. Then a social minister, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, made the decision to seek permission to appeal matters to the Supreme Court, in spite of the U.S.A.'s urging to stop. This would refer to the individuals worst in society and would be impaired even to the extent that they lived far below the U.S. government forwards, i.e. The individuals who have the worst in our society have been affected since 2009 and that far down to minimal progress and in very few places. The Supreme Court's decision is clear. I can't believe that the government is going to shield itself behind some expiration rules. Rather, it's to show the full responsibility of the illegal plundering, of them and of them back to 2009, to people who had to draw out life in hunger and in good health on the government's invitation for nearly 13 years, with the result that people have not even survived their legal rights. Six years in a lawsuit, as mentioned earlier - unfortunately, the person did not survive the day that his hope for righteousness would end. It is their time, and they can no longer wait for righteousness. Is this new meaning? Is it the meaning that the person has just died, so he should not enjoy justice? So I ask the highest. Social and Employment Minister: Is it true that the state is going to pay only four years back, and that is until April 2018?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for taking up this important matter here in the Senate Hall. I think we can all agree that this conclusion is important to the community involved in this matter. This is a conclusion, which means that the state will no longer impair the forwarding of these individuals from local residence time, and it is important. It is important that we be clear through all the proceedings of judgment. I would especially like to say that such a decision is always hard to make in life whether it should continue to appeal. It was in this case. There were legal reasons for this. But the most important thing is that the matter is settled. I welcome the conclusion, and I rejoice at the conclusion because it is a matter of righteousness, and there I know that we are. A senator wholeheartedly agrees. My first work, after this conclusion, was to change the regulations that will alter the procedure and procedure under which it will take place, the payment prescribed by an insurance agency, so from the next month forward, this is adjusted to the relevant ones and the future. Then the next step is as good as it is. A senator enters, and that is to decide what should pay far back in time. It's an exampleful case. There's an assessment of the Ministry at my office and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs -- that's the result, in a conversation between the conferences, that there's an expiration deadline here, i.e. to be paid back four years from the appointed time of judgment. A insurance agency is working on these payments, and hopefully it works as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. The answers are clear: If taxes were taken from the state, credit taxes, or other taxes, and the robber would say, "Hey, I have all the money here, and I'm going to give you one third, but I'm going to hold you by two thirds - it would be accepted? What kind of violence is this? That's twice the violence. First, a government fund is sentenced to pay these people, the worst-named people in the country - a special compensation for them in order to the toll, not to live. Then the kingdom comes and says, "We kidnapped you for 13 years, but we're just gonna give you four back. They are busy making enough money for other rich people. At some point, they heard it was an expense. How can you be at a cost if you break the law and take money from people who don't have food? Wasn't that supposed to be returned? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u12	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again resists. I just want to reiterate what I said before: it's concluded, it's good for society, it's good for this group, which is certainly one of the groups that all have lost in Icelandic society. And there's a group we're supposed to fight for. We need to continue to improve the quality of the disability pensioner, and that is indeed on the policy sheet of this government. The first step was taken through the last year, when an extra percentage rise and correction of the fall of the crown was made, which is a positive first step. Today, we are in preparation for the overall accounting of the system, with the aim of simplifying it, raising basic pensions, reducing revenues, and trying to create a system that can better replace this important group of people so that they can be more involved in society, whether it is in a labour market or outside the labour market. And let us continue to work together at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u13	A respectable president. V.E.G. The minister of culture and commerce has made it clear that the responsibility of the bank sale is primarily for politicians, i.e. The members of the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. So it's a little bit surprising that the inside minister is about to come up here and say that it's all some expert to teach, the minister's counsel, not the minister responsible for it. So my first question is: is the highest. The secretary of the jury disagrees with the vice president of his own party on the responsibility of this case? Now it is clear that the law that applies to this process assumes that a minister is in charge at all levels, that a minister is in charge of the trade process, a minister lays lines on the sales process and the object of the sale, informs the General of all these matters, and then makes a final decision on whether or not the proposals have been made after reviewing the brief evaluation of the bank administration. We know after the meeting this morning that a minister was not even aware of whether he was making a administrative decision or not when he made the decision. Apparently, he made the decision in two hours. Of course, it would be interesting to hear from the highest level. The head of the jury whether major public interest decisions are taken in the same way at the Ministry of Justice and whether he feels that this is too much for him to answer. My second question is: expected to be the highest. Industry of the fact that many small and insured investors with very little reported history of banking would be allowed into this process? Is this what a minister expected? Is this and that conclusion, the highest? The minister of finance holds uncircumcised responsibility for, legal and political responsibilities, all together in accordance with the policy of the forward movement and the values of the forward squad and the highest. The secretary of the wood Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson wants to lead the way?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u14	A respectable president. I'm going to answer the last question first, there were a few, actually. As I described last year, I'd say something to another man. A senator on the same subject is frustrated with the conclusion. I didn't realize - I don't think any senators would be able to buy for a million or ten million or anything like that. I don't think that's why we were surprised that we didn't even think about such a low level, whether at the government table, at the Minister's Committee, or in the Generals' affairs, or when all the experts were consulted in town. You see, that happened at the early stage when we sold it in a general way. Then we got a reaction. I received a response from people, experts who helped us here in the council to create even more specific guidelines. There is no doubt that ministers and politicians are responsible for making decisions. We're in a hurry. There is no doubt about it. I'm just describing that this project, where we've got a arm distance, had it brought to the Bank Office, is not consistent with what I expected, neither the information gift we received, but is not that I know enough of what I'm doing, nor the projects, how it's done. We've been calling for even more information, and I think everybody agrees that the information might have been better. And third, it may be found that the dealers may have failed. We know that it is being investigated, and that's why it needs to be fully investigated, because we, naturally, teach the Bank Office what the salesmen may have done without getting better. [[The president calls.]] I don't know. Studies are ongoing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u15	A respectable president. I hear the highest. A minister is frustrated and particularly frustrated with the information and preparation. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister, and this is my first question here for the second time, whether he disagrees with that in accordance with the law on the sale of the state's ownership of financial interests, the information offering to the General, and especially of the secretary of finance, is the responsibility of the secretary of finance, in view that it is the secretary of finance to promote the General and the obligation to inform all aspects of the matter is at the head of the budget. Second, I would like to ask: Now, according to reliable analysis, 70% of the people have a bad faith in the name of Bjarni Benediktsson. That's why I want to ask the highest. wood secretary: trust highest. Minister of wood at the highest. For example, to continue preconceiving for personalization and sale of government property, the Secretary of Minister Bjarni Benediktsson? [[The president calls.]] I want to trust the Minister of Woods at the highest. Is this what the secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson's son was to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u16	A respectable president. The member of the Parliament was a member of a Senate committee who studied the aftershock, the collapse of the bank. The appeal through that work was that politicians did not accept advice from experts. The main criticism of that report was precisely that. In this matter, we accept advice from experts. I wish we had given us more than that. And, yeah, yeah. Senator, I'm upset about it, both to me and to all of us. I think we're all frustrated that this has failed because the first round was going very well. [[Up front.]] I trust Bjarni Benediktsson. I work with him in the government, and I trust him to do so. But we've already decided to stop the sales process because I don't trust the Bank County. I don't trust her after what's happened. [[Up front.]] I want to have research before we make more decisions and find a process that we all trust better than what we have today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u17	A respectable president. A few weeks ago, it turned out to be the highest. The secretary of the wood to have made an inappropriate statement about the European Commission of the Farmers Association of Iceland. Since then, a minister has apologized, since he even said so. being learning to yourself, but in this self-concerned expedition, a minister has sought to introduce the media and the council, but it is important that a minister recognize his position here in the council chamber and with the nation. Last session approved a law on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background. The law even contains the law. forbidding all forms of discrimination in all areas of society because of racial or ethnic background, and this also applies to harassment when linked with race or ethnic background. The term harassment is then defined in the law by permission of a president: ▪ Disturbing what is happening to her and having the purpose or effect of displeasing the person's respect, especially when behavior leads to frightening, hostile, humiliating, humiliating, or insulting circumstances. So I want to direct that question to the highest level. The secretary of the law to see if he considers his comments to the director of the Coalition to conform to this definition of the law. So I refer to the definition above: Were the comments made in the unscrupulous manager? Did the comment mean that the manager's respect was offended? Do they bow down to humiliating, humiliating, or insulting circumstances?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u18	A respectable president. Here's where we're going. A senator to an incident I have described as unfortunate, which I myself have, both publicly and to the person, apologized for, apologized and agreed not to speak any more. I'll respect that. However, it is harder and harder than I expected, after having been in politics for so long, to experience it day after day here at the council for a certain period of particular political and media charges against something completely different. I've wondered if there's anything in me personally or something that the statesman Sigurður Ingi has been up to, suggesting it's like this. Or is it just because it's a district election in two weeks -- just local elections in two weeks, and the forward party is joining other categories? [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that so? [[The point is: It's like the Independence Party.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not easy for me to joke about this. I've had a lot of stress, my family and my friends. I've apologized. This apology has been accepted. We agreed not to discuss it anymore, and I will respect that request. [[For example, answer the question.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u19	So the president aims to give public speakers the opportunity to complete his case without calling.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u20	A respectable president. It's clear to the highest. The minister of wood did not answer my question to whether the comment had fallen within this definition of the law. That's what I'm wondering here. I believe this matter is bigger than any other matter, so it merely adapts to the personal relations of a minister in whose position there is a minister to the nation, other than its members. My second question is trust. Now it is clear that trust in the government has fallen in a state of shock in the last few weeks and would have been lost if today's election was launched. Trust in the secretary of wood has also fallen, and then not only does the bank sale but he also plays the minister's comment for the future. So I would like to ask a minister of trust, "How will a minister take responsibility and rebuild trust? " Apologizing is not enough; words must follow actions. What will the minister and his party do to combat racial prejudice in the community, uproot them, protect the human rights and well - being of people of foreign backgrounds? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u21	A respectable president. It is true that the most important part of politics is trust. That is why I have worked my whole life in politics to build trust by performing things in the same rhythm that I am in, and I will continue to do so. It will continue to be done, especially in the area we have a little problem these days, and I'm referring, not to this, but to general. There is an increasing polarisation in the world, and we worry that it can happen here. We're a better community, but often described here from this platform, much better, but we can always do better. I think we should avoid what we have, for example. See in the northern countries, where we often look at immigrants and discuss them. Fortunately, we have been better there. We've been celebrating, and I'm celebrating all those who come here, to glorify our community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have said it many times in this chair, and I will continue it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u22	So you're not gonna do anything? Nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u23	Mr. President. Rome is burning. So I believe that the situation at the Gardening School can be described as smoking in Elfus. We've got gardening courses in Iceland burning. President. I believe there is an emergency in the management of occupational education in gardening. Let us not forget that this is a legal industry. The school staff has received a letter: You are hereby informed that you have been decided to resign. The report goes into effect from May 1, 2022. Your contracting deadline is three months and will be completed on 31.7. 2022. How does the government - and I know the highest. The minister of wood is an amateur for agriculture, and gardening is specifically referred to in the government business - to ensure that this study is a partnership? Is here just being thrown to calm knowledge, decades of knowledge, like a whale. paritaprevir Guðrún Hafsteinsdóttir entered the council? What about all those students, over 100 students, who have enrolled for study in the fall? Who is to teach these people? What knowledge will there be available? President. This crowning jewel in agriculture, gardening, is cremated by my opinion, with this uncertainty and my sense of disrespect being shown by school, employees, and students in this way. Is this going on with the Government Treaty on horticultural development, climate action plan and Iceland commitment in that field, agricultural policy, mature Iceland, a policy document prepared during the last term and presented by considerable effort, and I insist that it is the greatest and best document, reflect on national food security? President. I believe the council needs answers to questions like these.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u24	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Erna Bjarnadóttir for recording this today. For a long time, these concerns have been put to better use than have been for 15 years. And let's just admit it, it was a mistake to put the Gardening School under the agricultural university of Innunciation. For a considerable period of time, we have been trying to cut to the point that the gardening school, by law passed by this hall, is under it. At a recent government meeting, the Minister of Education and Children's Affairs and the Secretary of College agreed on a deal based on the beginning of July 1st, Fúsa will attend the Gardening School. It will be aimed at having him as an independent unit. All local personnel are offered work for a new agency. They will be sought for further activity. It will be set up a future committee that will deal with the best outcome in the field of research that Innunciation has been involved in smoking, as well as perhaps with a relationship that is not unnatural. Like what? A senator described this as an accepted profession, a legal profession. She may also have to have a chance to attend university. So I think it's very good, then, that the future committee, which will be appointed to take the lead in the Ministry of Education, will have time to settle it so that we can see that this will be the crowning industry, since I agree with that. The senator's supposed to be smoking there. For 15 years, however, it has been worked in the direction that it is not as seen if people visit the place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u25	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. First, about the offer of workers to work in a new environment - and the hearing of a government hearing this morning. The letter is dated April 26th. This information was not for the teacher, the decisions to the highest degree. A minister is witnessing. What happens when people receive such letters? It's going to be a shock. In addition, since May 1 the resignation has gone into effect, the legal community of Icelandic naturalists has felt that the work has been completed by now. That is a month of field service. Second, it is this historical explanation that it was a mistake to place the Gardening School at the University of Agriculture. I remind you that the National College also has an education, so there's nothing special about him having to do this training on smokes. He has a training program elsewhere so that it in itself should not have been too much for him to do. The situation must be that those in charge have made a mess of something.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u26	The President reminds me of why. Congress officials are required to direct their words to the president, not to the highest authority. Minister or wk. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u27	A respectable president. I can agree with what. paritaprevir Erna Bjarnadóttir that it shouldn't have mattered to being a student - because we're working on land school. In fact, I've been worried about that training because there's no mention in the college law. The fact is, however, that somehow in this 15 - year process, it has not been possible for one half of the agricultural university to let the bus station flourish. That's what's had to be cut, and that's what's been done right now. Of course, until such a decision has been made, the Gardening School at Smoke is at the University of Agriculture. And what the agricultural university did yesterday is not important, since the decision is being made to change this arrangement to start building up to take care of opportunities in Iceland's gardening industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u28	Mr. President. At least we can. I agree with you about one thing in this chamber, that housing market is completely unstable. The recent increase in housing prices has caused domestics, businesses, and, in fact, economic problems. It is discussed in the government covenant and stressed to solve the problem. I have my opinion on where the problem lies. Much of it is an offerer. In this case, the commitment of rural society to ensure adequate construction projects, whether for apartments or employment housing, can result in a balanced state of life. Of course, I must look to the largest member of the community and the family of the largest community in the business. I'd like to ask, however, the highest. The manager of two questions with this premeditation. First, how does the ministry's work aim to find solutions to the underlying problems? Second, who thinks Minister is responsible for the largest community, i.e. Reykjavík? [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I hear this is causing some who have a representative in the greater part of Reykjavíkurburg some concerns than a minister of praise to answer that question. Who thinks Minister is responsible for the largest group of members, i.e. Reykjavíkurburg, in this problem of volunteer service, has caused the problems we face?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry that is important. It's the Url Bank's raise day next week. One major factor leading to increasing inflation is housing. We have everything from the start of this government, and indeed at the last term, working to make certain changes in the government, the administration, to get more perspective, to be able to better aware, and predict what happens in order to respond properly. This requires a lot of tools in our legal bag, either to encourage the forward gate or the demand side depending on what is appropriate. Now it's the front gate. I agree completely with what. A senator in it. There is, however, no question, considering the developments we have seen, that we have built enough in the past four years. It has just been that people have grown tremendously, much more than expected, and changes have simply been made by Covid and by various other factors, which make us more built. There has to be building areas. They've called for more money in a general apartment, and I'm willing to stand by it, but these weights have to exist. They haven't existed in Reykjavík. They have not been around because it has been called. House prices have risen, and this is less of the property that is qualified to build on a general apartment for those who have more money in the country. Reykjavíkurburg has, in some respects, abandoned the equal policy in this regard. However, this was an introduction to the last days to the need for more apartments. Would it not be some 4,000 apartments that would have to be built in the next five years each year? Of these, Reykjavíkurburg must bring up to 3,000 of the building site, not 2,000 or 1,800, as is true today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So, yes, of course, the largest community is responsible in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for very clear answers. I realize that in two minutes it is not possible to answer adequately as strongly as a question. I am glad, however, that the work that has been foretold is going on. But I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does he believe that there may also be a rule or law that makes it harder for the local community to provide enough supply, and then I mean the rest of my rural society, the construction site complex? Moreover, we must not forget the big - scale job house business. Thus, we need to see if in some way we need to meet our rural communities and make it easier for them to plan areas and ensure that there is sufficient supply, so we are not faced with a steady future problem in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u31	A respectable president. Thus, in the care of a national economy, we have prime minister, and all of that is advisable, with a group who hopefully yields next week to put their arms around it. One of the challenges I had in Finland earlier this week was to meet the Finnish government in housing, how they've made an agreement with my rural society, and others about cooperation in this field - things I've talked about before from this platform, something that we'll try to develop to ensure that there are weights in the near future so that we can expect them to be built. One of its components is what has been called briefcase contractors. I'm only concerned that if it becomes more and more, in view of the discussion we've had about the bank sale and maybe an unsolved financial market, people who are actually able to control when it's built. [[The president calls.]] That's why I think we need to set more specific rules for local management when they go into development, when to build, when to get those weights ready, and I think it's important. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u32	V.E.G. President. It's not acceptable that the head of the advance party, the highest. Wet minister, come up here and tell us he was feeling bad. That's not what it's all about. We need to discuss here as the Allied Council of Iceland about the everyday Rasisms, how we react and how this workplace is going to shoulder its political responsibility to make sure that every Iceland is welcome in this country. That's the job. I see at the top. Minister here, shaking his head out of the hall, having no understanding of his political responsibility to every person living in this country. We have to take this responsibility, and I appreciate it. The President of the General Assembly to prevent the U.S. legislation of Iceland's Council of Law, that of the Allied Parliament, will blow the important matter of making us learn from our experience, that we are putting a Nazi on the program, and we all face our own prejudices with humility and modesty. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u33	A respectable president. I'm heartbroken and sad to hear at the top. Minister of wood. He has not answered any wishes to come here to the council to discuss this statement that scraped society rather than better, the comment of tens of thousands of Icelanders in a direct way because they are resistant to the discussion. When I'm at the highest. We have an opportunity to echo our apology to this huge group from the Allellian symposium, which he talks about the district election. Then he speaks of those who criticized his Word, called for political responsibility, called for respect from another source - saying that we have been trying to see the Einar son of Þorsteinsson in Reykjavík. I'm calling for the highest. The minister of the Action Party and the head of the Agency, and the Agency, all of them, acknowledge by action and word, that such a saying as was done by the head of the forward party, would not be carried out on people of other backgrounds, that they do not teach the government opposition to make themselves some political player of it and try to put it to the point where it was attempted að klekkja one of the sons oförstein out of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A minister of wood owes tens of thousands of Icelanders an apology because, earlier, he drew it back, and he scorned it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u34	The President has to remind you. Parliaments to respect the time of speech but not to review it promptly, as we have here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u35	A respectable president. Now, I've been working for quite some time in the forward party. I am incredibly proud of the work that the Agency has performed, especially in terms of equality, especially about the interests of everyone in this country. In recent years, progress has done well, putting our guard on litigations that we have thought were even becoming repetitious in our community. I am convinced that the attempts made to exaggerate a matter that is, and that everyone should be aware of it, have been put aside, and it does not surprise me that someone would resent it - but I am convinced that it is not for the record. [[The president calls.]] It is not proper for the General to behave in this way and participate in this theater. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u36	A respectable president. When several members of the council were here a few years ago, the defamatory language of the Claudius then the President of the Generalis gave a speech over a council, lectured a world of good values and well - being, and the importance of it. It is not a matter of private opinion when members of Congress or when ministers commit an unsurpassed lawsuit, a racist comment, as in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister of wood. It's not personal. We here at the Council called for him to clean up his door here at the Hall of Congress. That was not the case with a minister. Let's keep that in mind. This is kind of the first time he's been coming in here at the Generals and discussing this matter. And how does he react? Yeah, everybody's so mean to him. [[The president calls.]] It's all about Einar Þorsteinsson or country elections, everybody's so mean to the head of the forward party. [[The president calls.]] He complains and howls, but he does not accept responsibility. [[The president calls.]] This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u37	A respectable president. I came up here in a drunk before, and I asked the top. The inside minister of questions I thought were quite simple. I may not say that I had a lot of hope so that the answer would be completely consistent with what I would like to do. Still, the answer was tremendously disappointing, and I found the answer to neither of the questions I was pointing to as a minister. The questions were simple. The first question was: Does the standard of law - which it obviously does - fall here at the last council? Then I wonder why we're making laws if they're not to be followed, if it's just a personal matter between people whether the law is being followed or not. The other question was, What are you going to do? What are you going to do to combat the systematic racism of this country? The answer was nothing. The answer was nothing. What a disappointment! [[The president calls.]] First and foremost, I want to criticize the highest. The headmaster for not answering the questions, but the most serious thing is that no answer has come, of course, meant that the answer is nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u38	Mr. President. In view of the highest. The minister of Sigurður Jóhannsson chose to drag the council and the district election into his trouble, the alleged racist speech he gave, I'd like to say one thing: The Congress has requested a month to be the minister of the chamber to discuss this matter. The Congress has sought a member of the President's team with a reference in the Congress Act, something the president has brought to nothing. The Congress has requested a minister in unprepared inquiry, something the Minister has not done. So I refer to the Fatherhouses that there is some connection between this speech and the district election. How self - centered can one be? I'm asking. It is, as we have seen, a debate of such a much larger scale than the number of members of the procurators of the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u39	A respectable president. It's got the highest. The minister of the law came up and apologized. He has, in fact, made it officially and at a meeting between the two parties there, his and the executive director of the National Research Association. What are you trying to achieve here in this council hall? What are we doing? And I can say that, knowing the highest. Minister of wood very well, whether people believe it or not. Councilmen, I know the highest. The minister of the jury is sincere in his apology, whether here or at the highest level. Minister met the subject. But all of us make mistakes along the way of life. So, what do we do? Yes, we come out and apologize, and the minister has.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u40	A respectable president. I am shocked after listening to the highest sound. The Minister of Woods, who has not been here at the Assembly Hall after a good run at the D.A. on March 31st. He hasn't been seen here in an unprepared question period since. Of course, when a man's apology and sincerity to a woman's scornful and humiliating words come here, after he recovered from a month or so from a meeting of equipment, he convened his view that the discussion in society all, that the criticism in society all accounts for the election's success in the fall. It's incredibly lame. And as long as he's talking about following, and since he's referring to the campaign support, it's safe to say in the surveys that the government has fallen. [[The president calls.]] The pursuit of prominence is overcome by this arrogant attitude on matters forever and always clean.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u41	President. It's a little serious, I think we'll all figure it out. That is why it is only natural to ask: " In what context is this serious matter? Because the government put these laws here relatively recently, and we are asking if they have such a statement. Were these comments serious that they defended the law, the law that the government itself gave? It's a very normal question, regardless of any apology and the like, because what a minister says is no private matter, it's just not. In fact, it is specifically stated in the law that people cannot give up rights that arise from the law, much less to ministers who are to explain to us how to act in terms of the laws he himself stated. We want to know the context of this. That's why the inquiry was just very normal. Is this within the bounds of the law to the Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u42	President. It's got the highest. The minister of the wood is asked in a very clear way whether his comments fall under the law of the land and he will answer nothing, nothing at all. Rastics must never be taken lightly, and they have been agreed. The deputy body of this council has created an amazing comment on the comment systems of the country. Rastic speech needs to be taken seriously. It's not okay to sweep this under the carpet. A minister needs and is obliged to take a far greater responsibility than any person in the country's comment systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u43	A respectable president. I was not surprised to hear a member of the Independence Party come up here in a pit and use the last day to penetrate more of the city's city council in Reykjavík. Speaking of the property map and remembering that here was the candidate of the Independence Party, who is a deputy council member, who described the state of Reykjavík as being so gravely serious that it would have to go to intensive care, so this was the description, it would be called upon a special party to save the city of Reykjavík from bankruptcy. He then asked a subsequent question, and the inside minister has answered that inquiry. The state of Reykjavík is the best in the whole country. Compared to all rural areas in Iceland, Reykjavíkurburg status is best. The city's budget has a debt ratio, which is by far the best in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. In order that men are not fighting here to lead a country election campaign, it's only right for the council to go home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u44	A respectable president. What is being accomplished? asked him. paritaprevir The debate party. V.E.G. The minister of the wood and the head of the party were asked about the possible violation of the law in which he spoke disrespectful language to a woman of foreign origin. He has not been seen in the General Assembly or in the media since using his racist words. He leaves the hall without answering that simple question. He leaves the hall and does not answer the question of wrongdoing. What is being accomplished? Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson says that he prides himself on the political equality campaign of the Agency, while the League's vice president is doing all he can to address the Court's decision of equal rights due to legal violations of the Ministry's office. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u45	A respectable president. This is where it comes out anyway. paritaprevir Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson asks what we're trying to achieve. During an unscheduled question period, where we come up here and direct inquiry to the minister, we are trying to get answers first and foremost. It was my purpose before, to get answers on the other hand, whether a minister realized that his comments included breaking the law, violating the law that lays the penalty on that behaviour, no matter how the matter ends in the personal relationship that took place. The other question was, What are you going to do? The above words have been followed by members of the Independence Party, and the forward party clearly shows that it is not a problem, it is not a systematic problem. There's no racist here that needs fixing. It was just some unfortunate personal incident that a minister has settled with the person it was about. They are unaware of the impact this incident has on tens of thousands of people in this country. [[The president calls.]] This apology must be carried out. The question was simple. So I'll answer a question. þm. Ágúst Bjarni Gardarsson: I just want answers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I was trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u46	President. Hv. paritaprevir Ágúst Bjarni Garðarsson asked, as others have said, "What are you trying to achieve? " It is easy to answer. A statement by the highest degree. Ministers were serious enough in themselves, but they are not unique. They are part of a pattern that we have seen in recent days and weeks, with ugly comments about a substitute attorney often seated here, by police action, and as a result, it is increasingly urgent that one of the nation's top rulers contributes to the elimination of this commonplace rasism. paritaprevir It was mentioned by Þórunn, Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir. All of us make mistakes, certainly, and we apologize. In this case, it will be no less than the highest. Ministers ask all the people who live here, and they feel bad about this statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u47	A respectable president. Thanks for the reminder. Yes, what are we trying to accomplish? Of course it is. I know the highest. Not according to behavior, as he was guilty of there on the farm council, on the contrary. That's why we all react so much because of the highest pressure. A minister and his band stand for values that suddenly got a little out of control. That's why we've called for the highest. Ministers come here to report the matter to the council and speak from this talk directly to the thousands of Icelanders who were also wounded and hurt over these comments. It was more than just the ones directly hurt. That is why we need to discuss this from this public address. In time, the highest. A minister had the opportunity to repeat his apology to all these people, and to correct the values set out for the forwarding party, and he himself, for them, waslittled the matter. He stopped being a doer, he made himself endure. [[The president calls.]] He said that all those who have been criticizing him in this hall, and having echoed criticism in the community, are using some politics. [[The president calls.]] He took back his apology.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u48	The question is, What are we going to do? I can answer what I've done. I have been led twice by my minister, Einar Daðason, a change in the law on the affairs of immigrants, to receive individuals who apply for protection. How vital that we be here as a nation to receive these people and direct them to the right places! Yeah, there's some racist in Iceland, maybe more than we dare to admit. But in the 29th speech of the chairman of a single minority class here at the General Assembly, he could not convince me that this matter had to be thrown out in the third place. Where's Rasism? I've been pushing like a grouse to get this case through and now, for the third time, and I'm trying to throw it out again. Where's Rasism?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u49	Mr. President. The reason for this case is considerably greater and more important than the results of the forward political election and I would like to... Senator? [[Up front.]] This case, Rasism in Iceland, is it less important than the results of the move team in the rural election? [[Up front.]] It's new. But because the President asked earlier, I'm going to refer to the 61 str. Parliamentary song, by permission of Presidents: ▪ The Directorett may at a meeting time allow members and presidents of a political party to make a special announcement, and representatives of other classes may respond to it if necessary. This is what we asked about here, considering that a few weeks ago, each unsubstantiated question period passed by without the highest level. A minister of wood would see fit to come to discuss this precisely. So I say again, it is referred to the Fathers that this is some particular date in the light of rural elections. This is the first opportunity of the council to discuss these comments with the minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u50	President. In fact, the Minister of wood had an opportunity before, in unsubstantiated inquiries, to accept responsibility for his words, which are not just relevant to the town council director, but to 15% of the American people of foreign origin. He missed the opportunity to tell a council and a nation what he will do to combat racial prejudice in the community, to eliminate it, and to protect the human rights and well - being of people of foreign background. You see, the answers weren't any, Mr. President. That's the sad part. He set an example by letting this comment fall. He could have taken responsibility, but he could have avoided the media and assemblies. And when he has the opportunity to appear before the council, he is not ready to accept responsibility. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson earlier said that it would not be a good idea for us to be a part of this theater. I say it's not a good idea to call this theater. [[The president calls.]] We are concerned that the message for the nation is that the government is clearly a racist speech. [[The president calls.]] These are the anxieties that arise when the minister refuses to accept responsibility and refuses to clean up his door. [[The president calls.]] This isn't a theater.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u51	Mr. President. I'm going to join those who fight Rasism and all forms of prejudice. However, I listened right here at the highest. Minister of wood before. I looked right at him when he gave his speech, and I sensed and felt how sorry he felt about it and it couldn't go past anyone here in this hall how much this has tried him. What he said here, and I'm asking men to keep in mind was that he needed to take a look at himself. He would need to examine his own motives and try to discern if his manner and speech were in a way that would give rise to these attacks. He has apologized, and in this regard, my dear friend, and I've had a conversation with her that I'm not going to inform you about, but they've made up their minds and had a clean conversation where an apology has been received. [[The president calls.]] I'll respect their apology, and I believe the Minister of wood was a man to have those conversations with my dear friend and his walk here made him more of a man than before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u52	A respectable president. It's my feeling, and maybe and hopefully I'm wrong that the comments made here are intended to try to paint forward as some sort of racist party. I hope you don't. This involves communication between two individuals in the town. [[Take it up in, Mr. Secretary.]] That's right, Minister, it certainly is. These cases have been brought to their ends. It's just a matter of time. This has been shown in the media. [[Up front.]] That's why I'm saying it, top dog. President: We should respect that. I know that we do not feel comfortable with the talk that has been going on in the community with Rasism. We are to deal firmly with it wherever he may be, and I will not leave mine to this struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u53	V.E.G. President. Senators must understand the role we are here at this workplace, what our position is, what our responsibility is, and what responsibility we have as members of the body and public figures in this country. It's got to happen here at the high Council that we're talking about rasismann in Iceland, that we have political and moral strength to do so, and that we don't lose him in the category of political graves, unique cases, or campaigns. This case is so much bigger than that. It's the Generals project, and that's why I came up, to deliver it to the highest level. President that it was our mission. The very outstanding thing for the occasion should be the basis for taking self - examination all the way and carrying the political responsibility for Iceland's racistism.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u54	A respectable president. The discussion here in the conference board is important and it's serious. Words like rasism and combating racism in Iceland - I think we all agree here that we want to talk about it and work against Rasism because it's not meant to be tolerated. But let us also try to separate matters. We're here to discuss characters and players who've been taken care of, and they've been publicly apologized. The difference between a senator and a minister is that such issues will be revealed. They affect him, they affect everyone around him, and also both parties. Let us not forget that. It's been done between them and we need to keep going. We must not forget this, though. We need to discuss this, and it's been done within the House of forwards, and it's done in the advance, and we're going to win this thing, because in what community do we want to work in and live in? [[The president calls.]] I myself raise my children in such a way that they should apologize, and then we will continue and we will learn from experience. [[The president calls.]] Let's make sure things like this don't happen again. That is what we need to work on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u55	A respectable president. The French Minister for the government of Iceland is not his private matter. It's so bad to hear here one of the senators after another and Ministers in the Iceland government coming up and not understand the basic fact that this is a systematic debate in Iceland. V.E.G. A minister makes his own decision here on a talk chair when he shows up for the first time for a month to blame a political opponent for his racist word. Likely, he directed his words to the Independence Party, which is now looking at each elected representative after another, as well as to the forward party in surveys. [[The president calls.]] We're talking about everything else. It's not about the next election. It's a systematic discrimination towards people of foreign origin. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u56	President. Only on these basic issues. It's not about any two people in the town, as the senator of the forward party put it here, it's about the minister's statement in the government of Iceland. That's what it's all about. It's far bigger than the fact that some man in a town dropped some comment that we all know who at a party in town. The Prosecutor referred to an apology, but it is of course important that she is sincere, not that a minister comes here after a month's leave of Congress, and that he makes any mention of the need to be pressed because he has been successful in elections and will be successful in elections. Then I would like to mention the obvious when the candidates talk about the end of this matter: It's not. There is a complaint at the General ethic on whether a minister has committed a violation of ethics. [[The president calls.]] The case is certainly not over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u57	President. Now, it is very clear in our discussion that there is a rumor of who these comments were. Let's get this straight. Neither the speaker nor the speaker has repeated those words, but the description of those words falls under the definition of what is considered inappropriate in view of their laws. Therefore, regardless of what he said, we ask a minister about his opinion of the matter, but just whether this statement falls under the definition of the law, whether it falls under the definition of a minister's moral code, or if it falls under the Council of Congress. This is a minister's opinion of it so that we can continue or make up for where those boundaries are. Did the Minister go over them or not? That is what we ask of us, for the descriptions of what he said according to those who experienced this statement exceed the boundaries of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u58	Mr. President. For some time, the issue of shelterers is most likely the world's largest subject, and it will continue to be for a predictable future. So it is of utmost importance, and it is essential that we react in a way that is most likely to be successful for as many people, helping as most of those who need help most, not making negative, even dangerous ones. Therefore, there is a great concern that the government is once again putting up a bill contrary to what is being done in other countries, especially in Denmark, where the goal is to achieve a better control of the problem in order to do the most good for those who need help. Happily, though, this case goes back to the committee and hopefully it also gives the tip of a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u59	Mr. President. I've been discussing these issues making a lot of remarks at the bill's expense assessment, and that's why we want the case to go to committees between 2 and 3. O.r., certain factors will be brought out there so that we members of the Parliament will know what the effects of the bill will be. There was a senator in the President's conference board just before, who wanted to connect this with some racist case. That's ridiculous. We are simply making an observation that the cost of the bill is as poor as it is. Hv. A senator who came up earlier spoke of his hardness as kneeling at the point of putting this matter through but fierce. A senator has, at least This time the matter is presented, they struggle so hard that the senator has held no talks in 1st and 2rd. this case. But I just wanted to keep this up, and the reason why we at the Central Party want the case to go to a committee is the cost, not the other material, in terms of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u60	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion with a bill-change proposal to legalize child protection laws, No. 80/2002, continuation of performance. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors to their home. As noted by the bill, it is suggested that the date be delayed to January 1, 2023, carry out a series of Child Protective Services and Child Protection Programmes established by law No. 107/2021. The earlier laws went into effect on January 1, 2022; yet, children's protection and districts regulations were not to be implemented until May 28, 2022. It is, in effect, a national governance system, a fundamental change in the management of child - welfare committees, which is delaying the execution until the New Year's Eve and that the old arrangement, or the existing arrangement, will remain until now. The importance of postponing the draft to January 1 is expressed by the majority and suggests a number of technical modifications, including those made by the EEA. The fact that the bill already gets value. None of their suggestions have any other material influence than they are already doing. In view of the above, the greater part contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes made on panels. 938. Under the heading "Lineik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Ágúst Garðarsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Hafsteinsdóttir Jódís, Skúladóttir Harðardóttir Hardydótir, Óli Björn Kárason, and Ásmundur Friðriksson, who was absent and wrote under the title of 4 mgr. Twenty-eight. Orders of staff members of the Generals. I'd like to thank a fine welfare committee for working together to finish this case over the short time we had and suggest that the bill be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u61	President. I did not sign this committee opinion, and I'm just going to explain my decision. I have a great understanding of the views of the local community, that further preparatory periods are needed to meet the children's protection laws, but is intended to establish a child - welfare agency to replace the local child protection committees that are to be submitted. It is clear that if the Child Welfare Protection Committees are laid down without taking the Children's Protective Service, then children's interests will end in an indefinite time dock, with consequences. It's naturally unpleasant. That's why I support the continuation of the law because the interests of children must always be first of all, that's very important. However, the administrative part could have reacted much sooner to protect children's interests through adequate concierge rather than to run the case through dog pools without the ability of senators to study the matter properly so that it can be handled in a professional way. It's just my experience to have worked here on the law that there are too many times that we're rushing through, and then there are errors that have been made, and then we're working to fix some mistakes, and often the consequences are immense. In view of the fact that there's enough room to do things better and more professionally after a intermission, due to local elections, for the duration of the law on May 28, I would have thought it would be better to go back to finishing this case after we've been given some quiet reviews just right after the election. This would have had no negative effect on our ability to handle this matter on time. I just wanted to share it. But if I don't, I'm gonna back it up, and I'm gonna vote with this postponement.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u62	A respectable president. I'm supporting this case, but I signed and supported the book on worry that this case could screw up at the speed it's running it through. It was time for this to be put in a review process, and it would have taken two weeks, and we'd settle this at the first meeting after a break. But there was one argument that made me decide to back it up, and it was the argument that during this period the government could fall. I thought to myself, " Okay, that's a good argument. That's why I'm gonna support this because this could happen. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Of course, a child must be protected before the government falls.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u63	A respectable president. I say yes with great joy for this matter. This is the third time that the Allied Council meets the artists who have been particularly ill at Covid and the crown epidemic, especially the local artists and musicians. On the other hand, I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister to make a full reexamination of artists'legislation, especially in view of the increase in the number of the Art Society and graduates in recent years and years. Our artists are blessed to increase, we have to build a further foundation for that group, and that's why I want to encourage the highest force. Minister to give a complete review of artistic pay legislation as early as possible to the council or to a new council. This is an enormous interest, not just for students of the Art University and artists in general, but for the community as a whole. As soon as I say yes, I'd like to encourage us to take bigger steps in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u64	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law on the trade rights of foreigners, No. 97/2002. On July 8, 2021, a foreign and development co-worker for Iceland signed a new holiday contract with Britain, but formal negotiations were held between September 2020 and June 2021. In a proposal from State and Developmental Ministers to conduct a resolution of Iceland's Free Trade Convention, the Royal Kingdom of Norway and the Maharajah Liechtenstein and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, approved in votes here at the Council, are listed as necessary legal modifications due to free agreements and other agreements with Britain due to EU and EEA discharges. These include the need to make changes in the legal rights of foreigners who require that their temporary services in Iceland be allowed to apply for residence and employment permits on the basis of family cooperation. This bill suggests the changes in the laws of professional rights of foreigners needed because of the above free trade deal with the United Kingdom and is referred to in the above Convention Directive. A respectable president. In view of the above, changes in temporary employment opportunities are presented in the bill to those who move into a business company with a national employment center. This is a suggestion for a new 4 mg. Section 8. the legislation on the employment rights of the stranger will be required on the authority of the employment agency to temporarily grant employment permit in this country that certain conditions are met when the employer temporarily sends his employee to work at his job post in this country, leaving it to the employee of the professional worker by untimely recruitment as the manager or specialist at his job station abroad. A similar source is found in Article 9. a current legislation on the employment rights of foreigners but a temporary employment permit on the basis of that law gives lower rights to the country but temporary employment permit on the basis of Article 8. The law. Therefore, the changes are suggested to ensure that the above employees have the same rights as those granted temporary employment licenses on the basis of Article 8. current legislation on the job rights of foreigners Same rights include: ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The law. At the same time, temporary work permit is permitted on the basis of Article 8. The law's longer than it's allowed on the 9th floor. The law. A respectable president. As mentioned in my case, this bill is a vacation agreement made to Iceland by the United Kingdom in connection with this passage from the European Union and from the European Economic Area. While there is a general change in the law on the legal rights of foreigners, it is necessary to make up the relevant changes in the law. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u65	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I support this change, and I support all changes in making it possible for people who have authority to stay here on land to support themselves financially. Of course, I'd like to go a lot further and simply have it so that if you could stay here, you could get a job, but there's another discussion we can take later. I'm sure greed has noticed that I've made a change in this bill. Ministers and it means that to the bill there will be an added law that will allow people who are allowed a permit on the grounds of humanity or for special contact with the country to be excluded from the demands of employment permit. This is because even if you are able to apply for a job permit, the demand for a job market is considered to include an enormous and heavy barrier, in effect, to people, both to find work and to be authorized to practice it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he's willing to support my new proposal. Maybe we'll start with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u66	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. If I understand the materials, I'd make a move. The senator's right, that's the same as it is. A senator has a bill on it. I just want to start by saying thank you. A senator for putting these matters on the program here, even though we all know that this is also in the highest bill. Minister of Justice is going to submit to this spring council. In substance, I agree with this proposal and expect it to be part of the committee but merely a reminder that it is in more than one place, so in some way we need to finish that matter. I've thought of it as being in the highest bill. Minister of Justice, if it is also out of the government, and I see why. A senator agrees on her subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u67	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, and I'm glad that we agree on this fact even though I have known it to the point, since this change is urgent, especially now that the government has decided to give refugees from Ukraine not the position to which it belongs, i.e. The status of refugees with full housing and employment rights in this country is granted temporary housing on the grounds of humanitarian efforts. That sounds really good, but it's only a patent for one year, and there's only a limited possibility of their renewal, and it doesn't have a work permit. So it is very important to put this change through, so that they can start working because there is a natural number of people involved that in the vast majority of cases would like to start developing an independent life in the very first. I wondered about this change as the ultimate. Minister of Justice has submitted -- he hasn't done that before, but more of the Justice Ministers of the Independence Party have previously proposed this change in law, a suggestion to grant emancipation to the people on the grounds of a non-employment agreement - this change has always been in a larger package which is clearly a reason why it has not yet rebelled that I don't think anyone would agree to allow anyone to work if they went to be here. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in the context of whether he supports a bigger bill. A minister of justice before the council, where this fine matter has been mixed up for several years with things that I would consider very bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u68	Madam President. Thank you. A senator again resists the discussion. I'd like to start by coming in for a second. A senator named here, i.e. Reservation granted to refugees from Ukraine. That's the first time we've got a 44. An alien resident of mass refugees, thinking that very many people would come here from Ukraine, and that has also been the case. In order to make the quickest application possible, this decision was made. I totally agree with that with what. A senator that we are living in a better setting for these people here in Iceland if a work permit came along, i.e. if you did not have to apply for work permit particularly today. Still, we cannot confuse them with the inability to get a job. That's a very different discussion. The people can get jobs in this country, and a number of Ukrainians, since we are specifically discussing them here, have obtained employment permits at the Labour Office. In addition, I know that the employment agency has advertised jobs for the employer, and I know that some 200 jobs have been offered to the Agency. They are also preparing new processes for this important matter. But to answer a question, why? A senator she directed to me then we made some comments to the highest bill. Finally, a government minister of justice made significant changes. It is now a convocation treatment, and we need to see what comes out of that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for advance and for promoting this important matter, on individuals who move to within a business enterprise with a national employment center. It's a bill that's in favor of a group of people who want to live and work in Iceland. At the same time, the council has a bill from another minister that sounds to me at the highest. A minister gradually becomes more content after some adjustments he has made. That bill still includes the fact that candidates for international protection will be removed from the right to basic services after they have received their final application. This means that the time candidates have to provide and provide data will be shorter in Iceland than in the North and the bill means that candidates for international protection will be excluded from certain minimum rights guaranteed by Iceland's citizens in administrative laws. Similarly, the bill means that those who have received international protection in a different country, such as Greece or Italy, will be excluded from being able to receive international protection in this country in a very mechanical way. Here, we actually see two basics on the program. One is immensely appealing to a particular group of business workers, and the other is enormously burdensome to another group of people who are the worst in the world. I just want to ask the highest. A minister of this tells us about the foreign policy of the government, whether or not he is pleased with this and whether he sees any caste politics in this different approach, on the other hand, about international protection, most often from very poor countries, and on the other hand, people working for business companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I'm a little satisfied with this question and this approach. Senator, but I'm going to take this a little further. Hv. A senator talks about caste politics. This in itself is not a large or vast bill. It's to react to Bfenit and certainly attract people who have it better than those who look for fault in Iceland because of disaster in their own country. Of course, we have it all figured out. But I want to take this discussion a little further during the short time I have. I'm worried that here in Iceland is actually becoming two groups -- I don't know if you're supposed to use such a big word to say two nations - when there's access to people, people from a foreign background, and people who's been feeding all their age here and who's from the Icelandic echo, i.e. that low - paying jobs is the prospect of those from a foreign background who are not. There is something we have so far had no direction about, i.e. where we want to go in those matters. That's why it's in a government contract, and that's one of the projects I'm going to do during the election season, that we set a policy in the affairs of immigrants where we have to deal with these fundamental questions. That's why I'm glad to hear it. A senator will discuss it here, and I hope we can have a deeper discussion on this point at some point during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is, and he can wholeheartedly agree that we need to take a deeper discussion about all of this. I'm concerned with the highest. Ministers because there are gaps in the gap between immigrants in Iceland, that there are certain groups in a particular privileged position while others are totally at the mercy of the government and that they have very low standards. V.E.G. A minister here speaks of the door - to - door policy of foreigners. Now it's just that way, whether we like it or not, it's the best. Minister and his party are in cooperation with a group that in recent years has been extremely harsh and unpleasant, I must say, alien politics. This category is highly foreign in terms of policy, for the government under the Precinct. I just want to ask the highest. Ministers, whether to lead this group to cause a second time and to hide this category of policy on the issues of a large number of foreigners in Iceland is not exactly a failure to break the space that he worries about.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's discussion on this matter. I'd like to add only a few minutes ago that there is a very small group, as the bill shows, to which the bill takes place. These are very few individuals who so far have made good use of this form of employment permit, which is certainly in Article 9. The law, it'd be 8th. if you experience any change in your condition. Hv. A senator asks if a certain group of people with certain opinions is likely to break this gap. I look to the government covenant and to the projects it contains, to the factors it presents and to the factors in the work of the social and workforce minister and Justice Minister. Of course, there must be some cooperation. I will use myself to try to approach these matters with as much humanity as possible because that is the course of my company, and that is the opinion that I live and work on. In this context, I would only like to establish some of the things that this government has done since the end of November and the care of refugees. We've promoted it, and I've had the lead on it as a social and employment minister, to receive here delicate groups. We began in January to state that we would receive women who were in a difficult position in Afghanistan. We have also declared it, and we have decided that we will especially help vulnerable groups, including refugees from Ukraine, who live in neighboring countries of that Kingdom.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u73	Madam President. I'd like to thank you very much. A social and employment minister, Ingi In Guðbrandsson, for presenting this bill that I support in a material mind. I'd still like to start by pointing at, like the highest. The minister said just before, that the number of people in this particular bill is very small. When this possibility was originally introduced by the former government, it was now to attract many experts to the country. But one of the main problems that have been raised has just been linked to the conflicting with applying for employment and living permits under this law being too much and it's taken over, far too long to cover job permits applications. There are a number of cases where it takes up to six months to accept employment permits and housing licenses on the basis of these rules. It's something I give the highest credit for. Ministers to work hard because it's just been reported by people who are applying for it, it's led to a host of experts and others who have stopped coming to the country. For the bill and the changes being made here, it's good that we can use Baltrexone as an excuse to make changes, but these are also changes that have been pointed out to be necessary. Moving, for example. Staff between work stations are very common, especially in large companies. It's, for example. Very nice to see that big companies like Microsoft, Google and Facebook, and others have set up the base here, originally to provide Icelandic employees who wanted to live in Iceland with the company but also to be able to invite foreign employees who want to live here, perhaps because, as one said, he was so lucky to get to know a Icelandic woman and therefore wanted to move on to Iceland, to continue working. But moving to a work station is one thing. The other thing I've been severely critical for a very long time and I've actually criticized abroad in the countries I've been living, is what I call the 1950s thought, which is that a specialist's partner should not get a work permit even though the expert has received it. I call it the 1950s thought because it seems that the spouse is simply expected to be at home to clean the house and cook the food and have everything ready instead of being able to stay at work as well. So I'm glad it's being handled with that terrible rule. I'd like to have the highest, too. A minister to think only about the fact that these laws are opening up that employers can transfer people between work stations. I would have liked to have it a little wider and also to think of such things as partners and international institutions, whether they could have a work post here and transport people in an easy way. I talked about how long it would take to get paid. I think it's time, too, for us to consider the regulations and conditions set out on experts, evaluate how they proved to be, and maybe review them. Finally, I would like to support the changes made in this bill already. V.E.G. Ministers have said that he wants to welcome the refugees and people who come here for humanitarian purposes. It is a good opportunity to use such a short and beautiful bill as this in order to immediately address people who have been authorized by humanitarian causes as much as possible to support themselves, the possibility of applying for work without the employer having to go through a complex process. These are all things that I think we can all agree on, and that would be a good blow, as they say here at the Council, is to get them through as soon as possible so that it will work as soon as possible, including. for the large group that's coming here from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u74	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator's excellent speech. I just want to come in like a dog. The senator talked about work permit because it's just one of the points I asked of our fine employment agency to make data for me. It turns out that the average pay period of employment is, of course, different by category, as it happens, but overall the average payoff period for all classes is 2020 and 2021 for about three weeks. I know, however, that there are excerpts, such as why. A senator mentioned, about six months or even longer. It tells me that either this is because it's a long time it takes to get the visas or that in some cases we certainly know, there may be some evidence that needs to be acquired so that it can be granted. In effect, if all the data are provided with an application to the labour oce, she is often confident to provide this leave on the same day, within two to three days, at most within a week. But it is bound to be all the data provided. The aim of the Agency is that the average pay period is below 21 days, and that is something it stresses. To that end, we want to do our best in this regard. But I thank the senator for his speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u75	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for the counter-sponsored and interesting figures that would be nice to look at because the stories I've heard about longer hours seem to be mainly related to people that come from far away. Then I mean people who may come from South America, Africa, Asia. It would be interesting to have such numbers broken down, depending on where people come from, if they have any effect. Perhaps it can explain some of this, that is a complexity of language and other matters. And then I don't know if digital applications have been introduced or not in this, but hopefully it will be soon. I'd like to point out that when I started working in Africa three years ago, in the country where I applied, it took three days and they're known for just a lot of paperwork and other things, so maybe we can learn something from it. But I'm glad we're measuring this. I'm glad we're watching this because we want people here for this country. We want to have the services of international enterprises and institutions here because it will simply lead to our own community, and I don't talk about like in the innovation community, creating potential for knowledge, information and association that will come in here, which will improve our own labour market society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u76	Madam President. I'd like to start by coming on that point at a time. A senator mentioned here, whether it might be that it would take longer to issue employment permits for people who come further. I think it's worth just a ride to try and break these numbers down. That would be very interesting, and I'll take that point with me from here today. But I'd like to get in on it as well. A senator was wondering, i.e. e.g. A group could take advantage of this. My understanding is that it does. This is something that the committee and members of the Committee could record in the activities of the Generals and ask the Ministry experts more about it, but my understanding is that it does. If it is not, then we may need to consider whether it should be because we know who have worked with a group that has a great power that often is very important and easily used. I just wanted to make it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u77	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers for effective and upbuilding answers I just wanted to take an example from my own probationary bank over 30 years ago. At that time, I was a young volunteer at the Red Cross of Iceland, and at that time, the Red Cross of Iceland was given to help build up that youth movement, an employee for a year from the Swedish Red Cross. He was here and was really our contact into the Red Cross of building up our work. There was a great and good job, and then there were things like The Bear Line, as we called it, and many other things. My idea is that there's an opportunity for such a thing. Groups, not only to gain knowledge from abroad, but also to bring members from other members of the community to Iceland to learn from the way things are done here. They can do it today with some sort of misspelling, by means of someone who doesn't get a work permit, but it's totally different coming here to work here as part of a group for some time and then take that knowledge out, just like we're doing with the University of UNESCO, GR. This is what I was thinking about in that relationship, and I urge the committee to look at it too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u78	Madam President. We are here to discuss a bill to legalize the laws on the legal rights of foreigners. It's a very good case, and I'm on it, as it was earlier indicated. I'm sorry, but I have to focus on only another bill in my speech on this bill because now I've made a modification proposal to the bill we're discussing here today that the law on the job rights of foreigners will be put out of the law that people who have been granted leave on the basis of humanitarian grounds will need a work permit to work here. According to that law, those who say they can't start working as soon as they get a living permit. I propose this transition into this bill because that change is urgent. It is of great importance to those individuals whom the government has mistakenly decided to grant emancipation on the grounds of humanitarianism rather than give them the status of refugees as they have the right to. Here I am talking about people fleeing war in Ukraine. While the law is what it is, these people are in the position that they have to apply for employment to be allowed to work here on land. This reveals that they need to find a job before they get a work permit. They need to find someone who is in charge without a job permit and trust that they will get the job permit and be prepared to wait for the job permit to be released. So this is an urgent change I'm suggesting. This change is also in the bill of Justice to change the law on foreigners and the legal rights of foreigners, but the latter are not being heard under his legal field. The reason the government decides to place this very important and positive change into the bill. Minister of Justice, but not in this very good bill. Social and workforce minister is that the bill is the highest. The Minister of Justice contains so much rightfulness for refugees in Iceland that it has been repeatedly rejected at this council. In an effort to bring that evil against us, the government has decided to set in place this good law rather than include it in this case, which would be more appropriate both from a legal point of view and, of course, because we could simply agree with it, make good changes, and discuss the bad changes later or simply let them go. I have no intention of delaying the matter we're discussing here, and that's why they might blow my mind that I'm going to talk about a different bill, but I think it's important for people to think about, that everyone is going for it. Senators seriously considered it to accept my motion on this bill, even though it comes from a smaller member of the body and even though it is also on top of the bill. Minister of Justice because there's no bill going through here, not while I'm sitting at this council. This change has to go through. This is a good change. We all agree with her, and there should be no doubt in the mind of any senator here at this council to accept this adjustment. V.E.G. A social and employment minister agreed to the changes I made in a material way, but I learned from him that he was not going to accept it because the change is made in the Justice Department's bill. There's nothing but support at the top. Social and workforce minister at Commission. Minister of Justice. For that reason, I think it's important to go over a little why I don't think it's right to let that bill through. There are changes made that have been repeatedly submitted. I've worked with people in Iceland now for about 13 years, and in my work there are often great problems related to the laws of foreigners being subject to dismissing from here people who have either gone down foot in another European country, have some connections, or have ever had residence visas there, even if they haven't been there, and people who have been given permanent or international protection in another European country. In Iceland, there are permission to dismiss people from the country without checking their application for international protection. That means that the case is simply dismissed. The people are not given an audience for their escape, and they are sent to someone else. These regulations have caused enormous problems because while the system works out, it does not matter where it is in Europe, they are actually protected. This is all because circumstances in Europe, both in general and in the face of refugees, are enormously different. When I started my work with people on the run in this country, there were laws for foreigners at a certain point, such as the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice is suggesting that they be restored. According to the above-mentioned 2016 law, there was no authority in the government to handle these cases in this country. That was no exception. This meant that if people had been protected in one European country, they were turned to the threshold. They didn't get any audience. What I find so interesting is that what led to a change - this was changed by law in 2016. In 2016 the law finally enters, and not only the warrant, but the obligation of the Icelandic government to handle material treatments here on the land of people's applications, even though they have received the status of a fugitive in another European country, if specific reasons recommend that they do so. Now I have my words right by the law. It's as tight as it is today, the wording as it is today. This is the law we have now. In spite of this law, most people are turning around, for the reasons are rarely very special. But I would like to review the occasion that led to a change, and this warrant put in there, the authority to consider these issues. The occasion was people. There were individuals who searched the country, and they were fortunate to be given support here, to get to know people who supported it, and their language attracted the attention of the media. In fact, the media caught so much attention that they came up at the city theater and related their own history to the entire Icelandic nation. It was a young couple from Syria who had two small children, two girls in their preschool. They would have ended up in Greece, certainly not wanted to apply for protection there, but there is no security there, let alone something else that can enable people to build up their lives. It is primarily insecurity when it comes to young children. Without shelter, it is difficult to protect your children from violence, not being able to provide food, education, or anything else that is entitled to them. The Icelandic people were sorry for this family, natural, and strongly objected that they would be reassigned to Greece, although the law at that time was so that governments were to be sent out directly without examining their case. The case caused the Excavations Committee to feel sorry for them as well and to have a very interesting legal trap in trying to enable them to stay on the land. That's what's called in a good Icelandic shit mix, which made them still here as far as I know. As a result, the laws of foreigners were revised, and from that review a bill was produced for the law that became the current alien law of No. 80/2016. There is a authority, a duty, to handle matters for material treatment, such as the family case. It was clear, therefore, that the reason we changed this was that we felt the law as though it were not humane because of the fact that each case is to be viewed individually and there must be some way to assist people when they are really in need. This is one of the highest. Minister of Justice now wants to go back. He wants to eliminate government authority in order to consider cases of international protection in another country. I am not going to spend all my speaking lessons talking about the circumstances in Greece, Hungary, the circumstances of refugees there. It's not that you don't get enough fancy apartment, it's about you not getting an apartment over your head. You do not have access to a labour market, no access to health care, no educational systems, no access to anything. In Hungary, the situation is even so bad that people are subjected to police violence just because they are fleeing. I have had more than one client with permanent physical damage in the wake of police violence in Hungary. These people would be turned right back with the bill as high as possible. Minister of Justice has suggested that we agree. It's just one law of many. This is something I don't believe to be the highest. Social and workforce minister is prepared to agree. And then I'm not even talking about other regulations that have to do with the time limit that the government has to deal with. There was also a very important time limit set aside in 2016 that if your case has been rolling between the systems for more than 12 months, it should be taken into account in this country. These regulations are to be destroyed by a new bill at the highest level. Minister of Justice because for some reason the Icelandic government seems to think that if anyone gets through this 12-month deadline, as it is called, they might somehow have been lost. You need to stop this from happening. I agree that it needs to be stopped from happening. But I mean, I feel that a matter should be done at a shorter time, not that it is necessary to catch people who exceed that deadline so that they can probably try again for a few more years to move them out of the country. This is the highest. Minister of Justice is also trying to do so, and I don't believe it to the highest level. A social and workforce minister is in his heart to agree with this change. The most serious change, and yet all or many are pretty serious, I don't quite know where to begin or end, regarding the obligation of the government under the law to direct people on the street, it removes all service 30 days after the decision is made. I understand the thought behind this change, but it is not only a misunderstanding of why people don't go abroad after they've been denied national protection and are deeply prejudiced about why people are coming to this country. I can guarantee anyone who's listening that there's no one here who's applying for protection for them 8,000 bucks. which he gets from the Foreign Institute of Foreign Affairs in a week and a room with three others he gets to enjoy on Ásbride. It's not like it's something like it's called in English, by permission of a president, both of them. This is not why people stay in this country after they have received a revelation. It stays here because they don't have the guts to go back, it's here because they think they're in danger. Then there is one point to point out, which is that people have no control over where they go. When removed from the country, they don't just get to the airport and go where they want to be. No, you need to go to the country that has already been decided by the Foreign Institute. In every case, people are afraid to go back. That's why it's not going back. Pointing it on the street will not change what it is unless people are going to be on the street and who will benefit from it? Who benefits from having a group of individuals who do not have a cent to support themselves financially, who do not have shelter, who does not have access to health care? Who benefits from doing so? These are regulations based on prejudice and ignorance in individual circumstances. I repeat, I don't believe that. Social and workforce minister agrees with these requirements. It should be above the limit to disassociate in the presence of non-translations of administrative law that in our society are considered to be minimal rights, judicial regulations, e.g. to reinvest matters if circumstances have changed since the decision was made. It's supposed to cut, too. People who run are not even allowed to enjoy the minimum rights we consider to be the least in our society. Now that I've just been close to a few things, I don't know how much energy I'm supposed to spend on this case, but I want to emphasize that all members of the Parliament, all of them. Councilmen in smaller parts and more of it, thinking of agreeing to my new proposal so that we can get the important change through without causing the disaster to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice wants to call on people who are fleeing Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u79	A respectable president. We're here discussing a very important subject, a bill that involves an indiscriminate change for people who move into a business company with a work station in Iceland. These are changes in the provision of temporary employment permits to these individuals. The bill is due to a special situation in the international world, a reaction to it, and, in fact, a response to the holiday agreement at the highest level. In 2021, U.S. Secretary of State and Development signed for Iceland's hand in the United Kingdom for the passage of Britain from the European Union. It is normal to respond in a rapid, well - mannered manner by the changes presented here, and cross - political agreements have to do so. Also, due to unprecedented international circumstances, there has been a measure of agreement. foreigners in the affairs of refugees from Ukraine Because there is a war in Europe, millions of people are on the run, and in this article the immediate action of this article is under way. Now, the current arrangement, when it comes to living and employment, has led to a huge number of individuals having been granted a permit for humanitarian work in Iceland, but is not authorized to support themselves by employment. V.E.G. A social and employment minister gave up on a talk earlier that he was concerned about the inequities of immigrants in Iceland, that the gap between groups of people in that area is changing. In his answer to this question, he was in agreement with the changes made by many members of Congress, where Arndís Kristínardóttir Kristísdóttir Gunnarsdóttir, Senator Pirata, has been in charge of changes in the law of foreigners in order to ensure that foreigners who have been authorized on the basis of humanitarian grounds or because of special ties with the land, under the laws of foreigners, will be excluded from temporary employment. Then it's about those people who get a warrant on the grounds of humanity, e.g. because they do not meet the requirements for international protection, do not need to apply for employment license specifically, but will be permitted to work once they have received a living permit. As I crossed the river, there are 44 st. foreigners, for common protection due to mass noise, have been activated. In this article, a minister may decide to accept foreigners who are part of a group that flee from a land area and provide people with a group food permit on the basis of that basis. 74. g. foreign shapes. As I learned earlier, it is a bill that involves the reaction to a special situation in international affairs. As soon as that reaction is urgent, it is equally important to make sure that the number of people we receive from Ukraine does not get in the position of not being able to support themselves with employment. We must be able to unite in preventing it. As I went over here earlier, there seems to be quite a broad political reconciliation about that, at least it is required in the highest bill. The minister of Jón Gunnarsson's son on foreign matter, making such a change to the highest degree. Social and workforce minister declared support for such a change. However, he did not want to cancel or say whether he would support such a change in this particular bill that he himself puts forth and hears under his own topic area. It seems that these important changes I've described here are involved in the execution of people who come here to Iceland and are granted a warrant on the grounds of humanity, being held in a sort of hostage situation, i.e. that management personnel do not want such changes unless they follow the repugnant changes contained in the highest bill. Minister of Justice, Jón Gunnarsson's son. Then I'm talking about the change in foreigners who hide it. making sure that candidates for international protection are removed from the right to basic services after they have received final application. It is, in effect, starving people for cooperation, one might say. The bill also includes the time that candidates have to provide and get data will be shorter than anywhere else in the Northern countries, and this also means that candidates for international protection will be excluded from certain minimum rights guaranteed by citizens in administrative laws. Moreover, those who have been protected internationally in another state, e.g. In Greece or Italy, international protection in Iceland is, in fact, excluded. In effect, certain totals of Dublin are being introduced, opening a warrant to deny all who have come to, or have, ties to, other countries where they need not fear persecution. As may be any witness here in the Assembly Hall, there is no peace with that foreign bill, but also political reconciliation with the rest I mentioned earlier. I think it's a very ugly political game, I have to say, to want to mix this up specifically, to somehow make the requirement for changes made by a parapolitic agreement, and to include a very important ransom for people who are fleeing from war, would not be a vote here in a chamber, except for the fraught bill. The minister of justice will then be brought up as a whole and with prospective approval by government officials in the process. I find this particularly wrong in view of the changes I have made here that, in terms of employment rights, are issues that do not hear under the scope of the language. Minister of Justice, Jón Gunnarsson's son, but at the top of the matter. Secretary of society and employment, Guðmundur Ingi Guðbrandsson. This may make it particularly difficult. Minister of the left green came to accept that the boundaries between him and the Minister of Justice are respected so little when it comes to legalization of people's affairs as a fugitive. Just at the end of the term, I would strongly encourage the body of Congress to adopt the important legal rights of foreigners and to include them when this bill, which is a general agreement, is completed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u80	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the changing of the free employment law and housing conditions within the European Economic Area, No. 105/2014. For the sake of simplicity, the law of daily speech is always given the law on free movement, and I will take advantage of it in my case here in this story. These include changes in the law related to the European Jobs Network, which is part of the EURES network called, but among those that have been included in the European Economic Area Convention are common rules within the European Job Network. Thus, the Convention on the European Economic Areas has been agreed with common national rules for the access of labour workers to the labour services due to mobility and further integration of labour markets within the region. The rules also apply to a joint database of job vacancies and jobseekers within the region. These rules for the European Jobs Act have been given law on free transport in this country and have been published as a follow-up for the European Protocol of 2011. A respectable president. With a European Regulation (EEC) between 2016 and 2016 under the European Economic Relations Convention, the plan is to further support the European Jobs Service and to ensure harmonisation, support services and information exchange on labour mobility within the European Economic Area. In order to implement the aforementioned European Regulation (EEC) since 2016 the agreed rules for the European Work Programme will be removed from the European Commission since 2013 and will be published in a specific Regulation. Since European Regulations from 2011 have been given legal value in this country with a number of free messages, it is necessary to make changes in that law and it is recommended to make changes in the bill. As further stated, in 2016 the above European Regulation measures measure the provision of 9/11/20. par. and 38th pars. will be removed from the 2011 European Regulation as a package of free transport and will be taken into account in a new Regulation, where the contents of the European Regulation from 2016 will be implemented as a whole. As indicated by the bill, the contents of the European Regulation from 2016 are expected to be implemented in a Member State by a regulations set out on the basis of Article 20. Marketing Authorisation Holder (Environment), No. 55/2006, after the bill has become the law. In view of the above, the bill suggested that you do so in Article 1. the European Regulation (EEC) shall be agreed with a set of regulations for free measures to set out in this country, with the changes resulting from the European Regulation of 2016. This is suggested in the bill to follow a set of the laws on free transport, where the regulations of the European Regulation for 2011 are published, will be removed from the law. Thus, the European Regulation is not being submitted from this country in 2011 but is only changing the format of the law in accordance with standard legislation in connection with the implementation of regulations resulting from Iceland's involvement in the Convention with the European Economic Area. In this way it is assumed that in the law it will be referred to where the Regulation is found in the EEA Regulation and that the scope of the Regulation will be available on the legal site and therefore no longer be necessary to publish the Regulation as a specific legal package. Therefore, the changes in the European Directive from 2011 to the values of the European labour market in the European Union are not expected to change, nor to the values of the rules for the European Jobs in this country. A respectable president. This is a bill that includes legal modifications but clearly states that if the bill remains unchanged that the law is not expected to be a material change for the activities of the European Jobs Agency on the country from the present time but is only assumed to be for the changed format of the rules in accordance with the European Union rules which have been submitted to the European Economic Area Convention. Since it has been a long time since the European Commission Regulation I mentioned earlier in my case since 2016, it has been proposed to implement this Member State's Regulation on the basis of the legislation on labour market measures following the legal introduction of this bill, the EFTA Commission has placed considerable emphasis on the introduction of the Regulation as early as this. In that light, I'd like to encourage the bill to be granted quick and effective payment here at the Council so that we can immediately enact a European Regulation as we are required to do. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u81	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a variety of laws in behalf of children, which include integration of services and early support. Since 2018 much work has taken place within the administration and on the National Committee on Children's issues, with active consultation with stakeholders, has been done to identify the status of children and how to improve the success of children and children's families. In line with the declaration of the Declaration of the Three Government Groups, beginning in 2017, it was found that services to young people and their families are always the best, and that the Icelandic community is pregnant. Among the key results of this work, early support to children and increased cooperation with those who provide services to children and families is needed. Substantial legal adjustments were adopted at the 151st legislation Council, which aims for these objectives. For the benefit of successful children, there is preferred laws on integrating services, including hiding them. is a fundamental change in the cooperation of those who render service to children and children's families. At the same time, changes were made in the institutions of the state that carry out tasks related to child services via the accepted Children's and Family Laws and the Quality and Health Organization. The integrating laws for successful children require adjustments in behavior in all those who render service to their children. The process is designed to intervene earlier and to ensure clear responsibility between systems to deal with indications that a child does not have the circumstances that should be carried out and that those who serve children work together to support the child and his family. A respectable president. Under the sector of social and work markets, important welfare services and support of children's families fall. To support the aim of the integration and to ensure that there are no barriers to the implementation of the procedure, legislation under my Ministry was reviewed. The conclusion of the review was to put in a bill what I say here. The bill suggests that there are various laws on the topic fields of the Department of Social and Work that are designed to coordinate legislation with integration laws in children's welfare and to strengthen the development of services and early support for children. The main objective of the bill is to create an improvement in laws that help children and parents who need to have access to integrated and appropriate services without barriers. Articles of the bill aim to eliminate legal obstacles that can prevent cooperation in the interests of successful children. The bill is aimed at creating conditions to deal with earlier circumstances or difficulties in a child's life with appropriate support when needed. Then the purpose is to add and explain laws dealing with children's rights and services. In the implementation of the rules, it has been emphasized that management and follow-up procedures are as efficient and as simple as possible from a child's point of view. It is suggested that there will be changes in four law columns in the sector of the Social and Employment Ministry, in particular the Community Services Act, No. 40/1991 laws on the services of disabled people with long - term needs, No. 38/2018, blind, visual impairment patient centres, and persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment, No. 160/2008, as well as law on rights for disabled people, No. 88/2011. Then there are proposed minor changes to the recently released set-up laws on the QA and the Health Organization, No. 88/2021. First of all, adjustments are proposed to the integration laws for the benefit of children's welfare, No. 86/2021. These are necessary secondary changes due to the law, including the use of the term and new processes, especially 5. Gr., 12. and the 15th C.E. More specific changes include explanations for the role of law - enforcement professionals in integrating services, such as Article 17. Second, adjustments are suggested to reflect emphasis on early support and general action at the first stage of service. It's suggested in Article one. that the aim of a song on local social services is a reflection of early support and early intervention. It is also suggested that the service employers be responsible for providing early support and early intervention on the basis of a law on the services of disabled persons with long - term needs. Third, changes are proposed to update the legal environment in relation to new institutions, children and family institutions and the Health Organization. In addition, minor changes related to the activities of these new institutions are proposed to explain power boundaries and to reduce the uncertainty of the responsibilities associated with the paediatric service. Fourth, adjustments are proposed to increase the impact of children's rights as per the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, as No. 19/2013. To this end, it is suggested that procedures to be added that reflect the selected principles of the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, especially Article 3. The agreement on the best and the 12th child. The deal on child participation. Fifthly, minor adjustments to the current legislation are provided for the indications received by the Department of Social and Employment Services. A respectable president. The bill is part of an overall review of services for the benefit of children. The bill has much to do with the interests of children and families. The effect of the bill is primarily on children who need ongoing and early measures and children who need long - term support and families of these children. These include disabled children, children of disabled parents, and families who enjoy community service. The importance of effective well - being, health care, school ethic, childhood and sports, and other services in behalf of children made many people more clear in the pandemic. Most important, the value of cooperation and mutual perseverance became clear to all. A good cooperation with the key and powerful sharing of information is, of course, key to dealing with challenging situations. The Treaty of the Government of November 2021 shows that the classes stress the priority of children's facilities and rights in Iceland. The agreed bill has a positive effect on the rights of children and helps the Icelandic government to fulfill more fully its responsibilities under the United Nations Convention on Child Rights, as No. 19/2013. These include the basic principles of the agreement, which includes all the decisions or arrangements made by the authorities based on what is best for the child and the right of the children to express their views on matters that are relevant to them. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u82	President. I'm a deputy senator, and I'm new here at the council, and I just want to ask some practitional questions about this. I think it's a very good bill and all. But here a lot of talk is about children and children, and I believed that the most children's issues were with a child minister. That's why I'm wondering why these articles about early service, Children's Family and other things are at table level. Social and employment secretary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for the conversation today. So we adopted the integration laws in the interest of successful children at the last legislation then, perhaps, a set of frameworks that must then be coordinated with other legislation, including: in the area of the Department of Education, as well as in the Department of Education, I believe I'm correct, of the Ministry of Justice. This is, in fact, a natural continuation of completing the legal induction that needs to take place. There are more and more children's issues in the system than the soles of the minister of education and child care. For example, these four layers of law were especially mentioned in my introduction earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u84	Madam President. Thank you very much. Social and employment secretary for the response. Yes, I wondered because there's been a bit of confusion about where things should be and what subjects are where. So, when I'm not a deputy here at the council, but I'm a child-preservationist, I'm wondering if by being so clearly mixed up in different categories, which they do, they may also have the consequences that my responsibility is taken from one Ministry, it's not clear to the Ministry which is the greatest responsibility each time. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Social and employment minister whether he thinks this might make it less responsible for each Ministry where it is distributed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u85	V.E.G. President. I'd like to get in there first, if you don't mind. A senator mentioned, the changes that occurred at the Board of Directors at the time of this government, which were handled in a legal way, including the subject of children from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Education and Childhood. For that change, of course, children's affairs were also taken care of in the Education and Children's Ministry. After the change there are some factors that concern children in the Social and Work Programme, including It's a non-profit legislation I mentioned earlier. That's even. Laws on community service, law on services to disabled people with long-standing needs, services and knowledge centres for blind, impaired vision, and individuals with integrated visual and hearing impairment and rights legislation for disabled persons. In itself, I'm not worried about what's happened. A senator asks me about, making sure that there is co-ordination within the Board of Management. That's what we have in many matters that go contrary to the Ministry. It includes the Department of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Presidency of the Management Board and is intended to ensure that this will not happen at all. A senator is concerned. Of course, I can say that sometimes you worry about lawsuits when they cross over, but it's the nature of some classes doing it, and it's not necessarily worse, it just needs to look out well for coordination. We could mention a number of other examples. At any rate, co-ordination should be performed and conducted by a special control group within the board of directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u86	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the bill on mourning leave, but with a sad license, it is a leave-to-be on the labour market following the loss of a child, as well as abortion after 18 weeks of gestation or stillbirth after 22 weeks of pregnancy. According to Iceland's Habitat figures, 20 children under the age of 18 are reported to be subject to an average of 45 persons, taking into account foster parents, stepparents, and others who have a parental obligation to their children, are subject to child loss each year without having a guaranteed extension due to a lack of workforce as a result. The legalisation of a domestic grieving license includes aimed at ensuring parents in a domestic labour market allowing for tragic work in the wake of the loss of children and after moments of time to support the surviving siblings in order to cope with their changed circumstances. The primary objective of the bill is to ensure parents in a domestic labour market permission from jobs and payments to meet the loss of income in connection with absence from the workforce following the loss of a child. For years, we have the law on birth and parentoroft guaranteeing parents their own right to birthworm for up to three months each after the birth of the stillbirths after 22 weeks of pregnancy and every two months following an abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy. Or it may be in the law to pay payment on parents of chronically ill or severely disabled children, No. 22/2006, it is stated that the spirit of a long - sick or severely disabled child continues to make income - related payments that a parent would otherwise have had the right to homes for up to one month after the death of a child, provided that certain conditions are met. I think it is clear that the parent's situation in a domestic labour market in terms of leave, whether it is abortion, stillbirth, or the loss of a child under 18 years of age, is no less a blow to parents than when parents face the death of their babies and the death of their babies. If this bill is legalized, it is assumed that anti - anti - death payment regulations will be removed from the law of birth and parentorum and the arrangements to pay to parents of long - suffering or severely disabled children, thus requiring the right of parents under the conditions above. A respectable president. The main focus of the bill is to ensure that parents in a domestic labour market who suffer from a child's loss of grief license for up to six months as well as payment to meet the loss of income during the planned period of absence from the labour market. The main focus of the bill is also to provide parents outside the work market, or to less than 25% of their employment ratio, including students, for their loss of child weight. It is then assumed that the right of parents to leave the job for three months following the pregnancy of 22 weeks and for two months following the abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy, under the code of birth and parent safety, will remain guaranteed by the proposed legislation on grieving, as well as by the payment to meet the loss of income during the specified period. Furthermore, in case of child loss, abortion after 22 weeks of gestation or abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy, a total of 80% of the average wage, or calculated remuneration in a given reference period, is anticipated to be 600,000. a month, but it is the same maximum amount as within the birthoral system. Thus, grief license will include monthly payments over a period of time for parents who suffer a child's loss, stillbirth, or miscarriage. Parents are also expected to be allowed to use their right to mourn in part after incidents with a decrease in employment rate and even over a longer period of time. I believe that flexibility is a very important one. I suppose it can be positive for those who are affected by the loss of keeping connections with the workplace, as if they rely on each time they work on the loss. I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that in accordance with the endpoint, the explanation for the concept is for the parent's space in the bill, but the explanation for the term in general, such as in current legislation on the country, that more than two persons have the right to mourn because of the death of a child than for the individual rights. It is thus assumed that under the term parent, with sex and ideal parents and/or guardians of a child according to child - law rules, others who have a parental obligation to a child will fall for a longer period than the last 12 months prior to the loss of a child. Thus, a stepparent or foster parent may be following the loss of a child's child's child's right to be paid on leave if it was registered to be married or to a married parent and/or guardian to the child or had a baby in the womb for more than 12 months prior to the loss of a child. Thus the family's grief as a whole is recognized regardless of family type, the subject of the bill is designed to address the wide variety of family patterns in Icelandic society. In this context, there is also the fact that in the bill, the parent's right to pay for grieving licenses and to mourning strength is guaranteed regardless of gender, since the term does not originate in the bill. The work programme is expected to contribute to the implementation of the Agency's work programme to cover the application of labour market rights as well as the expected implementation of a physical-like law on the birth and parentor that falls under the Agency's topic range. According to one estimate, the bill is meant to ensure that the sex position in the labour market is equal, and it is suggested that parents always have the right to a grieving license in the wake of a child's death. Thus, parents are expected to have the same opportunity to care for their immediate family and to accept the help and care themselves after their child's death, stillbirth, or the loss of a fetus. Madam President. It is well - known that long - term health problems in life can affect people's health. With that in mind, I believe that all of us can agree on the importance of taking special note that the support of children and children after the death of a family member. By ensuring parents in a domestic labour market that there is room for tragic development in the case of a child's loss along with grieving leave payments, I allow me to state that in some cases at least a possible and/or permanent health problem may be prevented. decreased long-term workforce activity. So I have such great faith that by ensuring parents in a domestic labour market for tragic development after a child's death, the possibility of having a successful return to a workforce and having an active part in the community after such losses is not spoken of as the benefits that result from allowing parents to support surviving siblings. In view of the nature of this bill, I do not expect much opposition to the bill here at the council. I encourage us who are employed here to join forces and to ensure the release of this important bill now at the spring council, if at all possible. But in our neighboring countries, it would not be possible to find a similar right of parents, as the bill assumes. Yet, in 2020 and six months of grieving in Denmark in 2021, U.S.A., there was a two - week permission of mourning in Britain. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u87	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of Social Affairs in earnest for putting up this good business, and I agree with the Minister's closing statement. Nor do I expect this matter to be widely supported here at the General Assembly and also in the community, for, of course, it is quite true what the Minister says, that it is difficult to support children and families in the situations covered by the bill, when parents lose children at birth, in late stages of pregnancy, or later. But I wanted to direct it to the highest. A minister in the light of this ideologies, beautiful ideologies, I'd like to let myself know if it's out of the question and if it's wrong to look at the children who lose their parents as well as the people who lose mates on the part of life that there are still young children in the homes. I think we all know these stories. I'm asking if a minister will see how the bill is extended so that it can also take over their families.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u88	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir for answering and for the good of this bill. I think we're starting a road trip here. We're not ending, we're starting. I am impressed that we look to a similar arrangement when children lose their parents. I'm hoping that, as I said in my introduction, we'll finish this case for spring, I'll put a lot of hope into it. As a result, I would like to start diagnostic work at the Ministry to determine which steps would be wise to take, and I would like to thank you. A member of the Parliament for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u89	President. Thank you very much. Ministers are eager to give the answer, and I can show a point of view that this needs to be taken step by step. I can't rule out that here may be the birth of a new proposal. I'd like to expect that, and I'd like to know that in the case of the Committee to give it to the Allied Council at least A clear message about what the minister himself is saying, that here we are taking the first step, but to continue. I see this case as an extremely good case, and it's important to ensure mourning license and tragedy under these circumstances, considering the interests of the parents who suffer the biggest misfortune of their lives, I would like to say, to lose a child, and that they will have it, as the Supreme Court does. The minister mentions, space, and support for grieving work. It is equally important for families in which young children are in their home, when a parent falls away and suddenly stands the parent alone, to have the same support and the same space. I'm glad the minister responds positively to this comment and overture how impressed I am with this matter. I am also glad that losing a child in the final stages of pregnancy or during childbirth is the loss of a child.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u90	V.E.G. President. I thank you again. A senator for the discussion. It was only examined when the bill began, at least the point we needed. There's a senator here, and I know it was the Ministry's assessment to do this in more steps. As I said earlier, if I made it up to myself that this case would be settled here at the Council and settled that it will be one of the issues we're going to make in our midst, I don't see why we're starting to work so hard to look into it any more. But there is something else I would like to mention that might be even greater in the future, that is to review the loss of parents of older children, even at the age of 25. This is something I think we need to examine. But let's take one step at a time, and this is an important first step, a grieving license to lose a child, a breath of breath, or a miscarriage, and I hope that we will be able to finish this case in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u91	Madam President. I don't want to call it an answer. I want to thank you very much. Social Minister for this good bill. It's so good to commend here at the council in all these acts. I'm very special about this bill. Why? Yes, because I've been working for 22 years as a teacher at the Ring's Children's Hospital, and when I saw that bill, I thought about all the children I've said goodbye to and the parents I've known. It would have been nice to have it sooner than to be happy about it. It's very good that we're in port. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u92	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Helga Þórðardóttir very much for the inn here I believe is important. I believe it is important to hear from people who have done the work at hand. A senator has been working in recent years and he understands this better than many others, although those who have lost a child are they - I think I will never be able to put myself in this position, and none of us are of course here unless we have experienced this. But that's not the discussion here. The talk here is that we are taking an enormously important step by doing this and I would also like to put it out of the General Meeting's debates how important the Ministry's cooperation with the Sorceres Center was to be mentioned separately. But I look forward to a discussion on this subject in the conference hall and in the future mice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u93	A respectable president. I come up here to thank you for the good stuff like the other guys do. Senators have done. I think it's a case that we all here can really get together about and it's time. A change in attitude toward such social issues is good for us Icelanders to be in charge there and to turn our legislation into this direction, to face the people who suffer the loss of their children, death, or death. I think it's a great act of justice for parents who have lost a child, and it's right for public members to give all the support that can be given, although they can never improve the loss that will be there. But to strengthen people through these problems in this way and the fact that grieving permits is very important to those involved and that they are recognized that they have to deal with the loss of a child and that it is guaranteed in our society that people can do so without worrying about their survival and position in a workforce. How important it is to go back to work after such a shock or to take an unrewarded vacation with concern over the grief that comes with such a loss! The fact that the bill allows for what a parent of six months to take a permit also makes me feel good, and then it's definitely going to be examined, just as it may be, when a spouse loses a mate from a young child, which I think is quite appropriate to consider in this context. It is stated in the bill that people can arrange for this leave of mourning according to what is convenient, part - time work, or divide it as they seem best, and I believe that the flexibility is very important in view of the personal and each one of us's ability to cope with it in his or her own way. In this bill, the term is extended by parent to include all those under it, and it is to face modern views of these matters that I think are also important. I just, a respectable president, express special pleasure in these legislations. It is in harmony with the changing times, an open society, and a community that we want to build up and strengthen with all the counsel to take care of the people who suffer the loss and grief of a child. I believe that with increasing discussions, understanding and tolerance toward people are increasing. As was perhaps in the past, you were to cope with your grief by pulling things off, but it's not today. People are to have time to work with their emotions, so they can try to rebuild and cope with the reality that faces them. We're here with a matter of trust and belief that we'll be approved at the Council of Us.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u94	A respectable president. Like other members of the council, I will agree with this matter and the importance of what was written in exactly the government covenant. I know this case has been discussed in the past, being a senator's case, and I think it's too important that we have this right here in this direction, and I want to thank you for the best. Minister especially for that. Surely, the greatest disaster anyone can experience is the loss of a child and the need to keep on living, continue to run their own family, do their daily work with that on their backs is something that should never be placed upon anyone. Sadly, though, people get into this and have to go through it, and if the government, our community, everything, can make them easier, something easier, then, of course, it's too important that we do it. I realize that, of course, it's a bit broad. We are referring, on the other hand, to the fact that there are stillbirths, abortions, and at the age of children, so there are many situations that may arise. I think we are always becoming more aware of the importance of our spirituality. The fact that we're here to give people the opportunity to go to mourning is also, if you can be so harsh to say it, set up savings for society because if people have to deal with such sorrows and continue everything that the daily life demands, it's only now very often that people burn out and end up just getting desperate because they've been put too heavy on it, people are just too low. So I think we're taking an extremely important step here. This is important not only for those who are going to need grieving licenses but also for their families and other children in the family; I think that this too is important. It is something that I feel that various grass - based organizations have done so well, dealing with ways to support families and siblings when children fall away. I especially think about the cancer - related society of children. You have observed their work and have taken important steps and have been an important support network around those who have to cope with loss. There may be many things in the community that we could do better when people face such challenges. You often hear that people get a little overwhelmed just by going through the system, going through learning what their rights are and how to deal with these and other situations. We are to try to make it a little easier for people, on the other hand, with grieving permits, but also with our social service. And there I think we can also look to the local community, that both state and rural society agree to make it easier for people to do this so that they also don't have to fight to find out where their rights are, what potential they have, how they can somehow get through this. And this is, as I said earlier, not just for the individuals in this area and their families, but for society all. It's just unfair, and it's inhumane that we are dealing with grief at the same time as they have to beat themselves through the system, which we've built up because we want to help people in this situation. Thank you very much. Minister for this, and we think we have a very important case here. In view of the way meetings have been held this week, I also think it is important that this important matter be taken care of. Well, it's been important, but there's also been a lot of time here at the council in, well, having all kinds of statements and something that may not be overly important to the people out there. But here we certainly have something that really matters to our community and is incredibly important, so I think it's just a joy that we still finish this here. Now, I expect the matter to go through a narrative process that should mean that the committee has more time, when we meet here at the end of the district election, to review the reports that will be received. I look forward to delivering the bill here this spring before the council ends, because here we are truly having a very important subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u95	A respectable president. I want to agree with the highest appreciation. Minister for bringing up this case. This certainly is one of the subjects that is enjoyable to discuss here in this fine piece of music and in this hall. It's a good feeling sometimes to feel that you're doing something useful here in this fine house. It is, therefore, especially happy that such matters will be considered and discussed, and hopefully they will continue to develop the trend once the assembly meets again. The case lay the foundation of one of the priorities of the government in the government covenant composed at the beginning of this terms. The material has been considered fine, so it may not be necessary to repeat it again. But I just want to say whole well that I am pleased with this prime minister. I feel that I am well wrapped around the practitiony aspects of the horrors underneath. Of course, there is nothing that will improve in any of the tragedies people experience under these circumstances. But I think it is very wise that the State will take to heart the human role of trying to do what can be done to simplify people's lives under these circumstances and to ease as much as possible stress and concerns can be found on these practical matters. I find it very wise to see how the bill approaches these prarkish points, both in terms of the income or the income form, with a sensible roof, but also so that it really benefits and can help people in these situations. I also think it's very sensible and beautiful what is being done about definitions, but in the law about children and parents, it's often a simple definition of who parents are and maybe understandable, I'm not beinglittled. But I've previously made a talk of these simplistic definitions of parents. I'm not going to belittle the fact that, of course, the legislatureist needs to be clear at all, who are the parents of a child, of course. In this case the definition is enlarged so that after an incident, it also applies to stepparents or foster parents, to members who are also in the second of the parental role of a child, and I find it a beautiful and realistic evaluation of what reality is, he is not always subjugated in all the excel documents of life, as the public often requires. I just wanted to come up here and thank the Minister for the bill. It's a joy when the public shoulder of human affairs and the responsibility of trying to improve people's lives as possible, I don't talk about when they face tragedy in their lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u96	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister, Guðmundur Ingi Guðbrandsson... deeply... for the bill he has set before the government. It's a long time. I believe that all of us have loved ones or friends who have had to say goodbye to a life we had anticipated would have a wonderful future here with us all. This bill assures parents who lose a child's permission to mourn, as we have seen. It is well - known that when parents face one of the greatest heartaches they can experience, all life is cut off, and it can take a long time, years, to feel the rhythm of life again. Of course, nothing will prevent the loss we are dealing with. But it is good to know that the community as a whole is ready to take care of them as well as possible. Here it has been observed in the matter of Ministers that other countries have taken the step of putting grief license into their laws. It was welcome when it was done in Britain in 2020 and then in Denmark in 2021. Parents'rights are expected after 22 weeks of pregnancy and then because of abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy and that they can be entitled to 600,000. in a month, which is the maximum eutrophication. This was a meeting with the Sorcere Center and the Labour Organization. Now this case will be discussed in a committee, and all I expect is that the committee will welcome the initiatives presented here. Sometimes it is that the matters we are discussing at the council may seem cold. We've been here for a long time discussing some cold realities in a financial market, but then there are times like these, where a bill touches a cord in the hearts of all of us. You'll expect that bill to go well through the council. Thank you very much, and I expect the bill to be received well from all members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u97	A respectable president. I believe this is a very important bill, and I'm sure sorrow is granted at the death of a child. The definition of a child in the bill shows that he is a person under 18 years of age. Then the question is, When will a child be a child? According to the bill, after a 22 - week gestation period, parents can be allowed to pass away mourning. This is about what a child can live without being in the womb. Two. Section 8. says: In the case of abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy, a parent has an independent right to a grieving license for up to two months from the date of abortion. Now I want to remind you of the law on abortion in Iceland, but after the last change, the fetus or the baby in the womb can be terminated at the end of week 22. It depends solely on when a child can live independent of a mother, that definition. I believe that there will be a change in this bill in the way a mother decides to destroy a child after 18 weeks, she can also go on mourning leave. Not only will abortion occur but it is also permitted for a woman who has an abortion after week 18 to go to mourning. I believe that there will be a change in this legislation, so this applies not only to abortion but also to the decision to have an abortion after week 18. Otherwise, I think it needs a bill, and it's really good, but I put my eyes in that case and started wondering where the lower line was. I believe that it is normal not only to have a miscarriage but also to have a woman's decision to abort her unborn baby and the grief that their parents experience.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u98	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator before the speech, and I have to ask him why. A senator's details. I'd like to first mention that the 22 week criteria are simply European goals, if I recall them correctly. It's the same as the law on maternity and parentorof. This is totally unchanged from that law because it is thought to be more relevant here. Well, maybe. A senator better explained to me what it is he's suggesting? In my mind, abortion is not the same as abortion, but I can say for a moment. A senator says that there is an emotionally difficult time when a woman has to have an abortion, just as in the case of an abortion. But I'd love it if I did. A senator wanted to explain a little more clearly what he was suggesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u99	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. That was a very good answer. I agree absolutely that it is a good policy for you to have a grieving permit up to three months after the day of stillbirth after 22 weeks of pregnancy. It's a good target, and it could even be lower, even after week 20. You're welcome. However, I suggest a change to 2 mg. Section 8. puts it this way: In the case of abortion, or if a mother has an abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy, a parent has an independent right to a grieving license for up to - the bill lasts two months, but I think it's normal that it's three months there. I believe the right to a grieving license is not only to deal with abortion but also to the woman who has an abortion after week 18. That makes sense to me. I don't think that this applies exclusively to abortions but should apply to them when a woman has decided to have an abortion after week 18. It seems just to me, in line with the situation and grief that parents experience when they decide to have an abortion after week 18.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-29.u100	President. This bill for mourning license is the best thing to do and it's great to be on the program and into the council. I'd like to start by talking about 3. which says, by permission of the president: ▪ Parent: The parent and/or guardian of a child according to the rules of child law, as well as the parent's duties to the child for longer than the last 12 months prior to the loss of a child. That's what I'm talking about, considering being the guardian of a child for 12 months. I'd like to suggest a change, since it's just that there's not always anything that children have been for 12 months with individuals who have been looking after their baby. We have an abortion system, for example. you may find that you are more likely to be for three months or six months. How are we really going to define when it has become so great that I have to go on mourning leave if I lose a baby in my home? I feel that the embryo system needs to be taken into account, and there's only a need to consider when a relationship has been formed. So for me, it might be one month, but I think it just needs to be examined. It's a good thing that this is going to a committee, and I thought it was important to get reviews from the child - welfare authorities, from the foster parents'partner, and to take into account the foetal system, and because sometimes within the embryo system, there is a breakdown and children can cross foster care. A connection is something that's a little personal, and it's between two individuals, so I feel that it's too long, and I think that this article needs to be revised, and I'm reviewing the time limit mentioned there, to see if it's not better to keep it between one and three months, at least not longer than six months. This is what I wanted to say about this article. It refers to a full study, which is between 75% and 100%, of which is a continuous study. It's just that there are a lot of people, especially if we talk about women who may have been dealing with some kind of illness during pregnancy and then have the sad and horrible events of miscarriage, they may not have reached 75% of the family obligations. I think it rhymes with a little something set up on maternity and birth strength in college, and it's just a bunch of people who don't get this limit, so they don't get a birth strength but a few thousand. I think it's very important that we make sure that people who are in such a shock and who are in college or in their college education can get the same rights even though they haven't been at 753/4,100% of them. You see, a 25% work ratio is reported, yet there are far more demands that people have done so much better in learning than they may have been in a job market. I think it's gonna blow over. These are often our young people, not always, but often, and they may have been some illness that made them unable to study them during the course of their lives. This is where parents of long - suffering children who are studying and not given in to them are spoken of. But there are so many exceptions that I really feel that there is good reason to consider whether taking part is not enough, not in the full course of study. Then I'd like to talk about 8. depending on the parent's right to a grieving license, it says, by permission of the president: In the case of abortion after 18 weeks of pregnancy, a parent has an independent right to a grieving license for up to two months from the date of abortion. I wondered how this conclusion was reached about 18 weeks, but not e.g. 13 weeks and whether it is realistic to reconsider because, of course, it is very personal. Let us not necessarily assume that everyone needs or wants to accept a release of grief. The shock of a family can be very personal when a parent or a person loses a fetus by week 13 or by another family at week 18. You can't just put a symbol in it because it's the individual thing. Therefore, I feel that the limit should be more narrow than narrow because it is not that everyone would really want to go to mourning. I feel that we need to give the individual more opportunity to make these decisions out of his or her family and how they are going through the loss of his or her unborn child. Therefore, to me, this could be 10◯12 weeks. I just feel like there's a need to be examined, there's a lot of news from people and from some kind of grieving organization, from people who have lost children and have looked into them completely. It's easy to write 18 weeks, but it's just so personal, it's so different. Otherwise, I just think it's very exciting, that this case is happening and it's being worked out, and I just hope that it will be done thoroughly and that it will be offered to as many people as possible to get to the table to see this bill completely fixed.
