ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u1	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Convention allows to complete the earlier financial programme planned today, if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u2	A respectable president. I hope we all agree that when a government minister conducts a racist comment, it calls for a profound and balanced discussion, both of the words that fell, the apology itself, and its conduct, for which only the General and the government send a clear message to thousands of Icelanders and others who are to live with the human rights, of course, that their skin color is irrelevant. V.E.G. Last night, the prime minister told us that we had to be able to accept it when people apologize for their words and actions. I couldn't agree with that. So it was good and positive that the head of the parish party apologized yesterday, although it was true that four days had passed, and his political assistant contended in the meantime that the comment had never failed. Sadly, when the assistant again answered the media, saying that she had in her first reply just described what she heard and saw on that night that a minister had referred, not to color, but only to the tolerance being an independent man. So the case would be, and this is a correct quote: total nonsense. This is what we have to stop at. We are in the sad situation that a minister apologized for hurtful remarks as his political assistant and adviser, who claims to have seen and heard the sequence of events, repeatedly asserts that he never died. If there is a direct discussion of what happened and how we should react, we need to have an explanation of this discrepancy. What was said, and for what was the exact request made? Is such demonstrations such as the challengers and thousands of Icelanders who are in danger of being attacked because of their origin not requiring that the message from the Council, from the minister, and others speaking in his commissions be clear and there be no doubt that the governor of the Farmers is believed, that the word of a worker, doer, and do not testify? This is an unpleasant discussion, but it has to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u3	A respectable president. I'll agree with that with the last what. A speaker would probably be discussing this matter. But my business here is in general about the activities of the council because the General Assembly is the foundation of the Republic, and this situation is not necessarily maintained. This need to be more than a word of speech, and it should be avoided by the General's minor and everyday activities. I've watched the council now quite closely, and I believe there are some signs that the council is the worst of itself and is self-inflicted. The fact is, much of the work of the Generals to Brussels and its members has been completed but is not responsible to the same degree. Here's a lot of time spent on paint and details, but while the flames are on fire, in the security and defences, energy issues and the weak standing of democracy and the jurisdiction of the United States. Here in the chamber, speech is heard with falsity and inexhaustible innuendo. The people are being made up for this, emotional appeal, not reasoning. A wise discussion is killed by claims that this and the other are absurd or wrong without a logical conclusion. There's a lot of opinion here. There's no use in language. There's a lot of time up here. The requirement must be to improve the quality of conversation here in the chamber. Political matters are not supposed to be a career or career, and they could put a peak on the council. Senators should have experience outside the politics. I would like to emphasize that members of Congress are not representatives of their party in their district. They are, as they are addressed daily, representing their district at the council, and they are not to serve their own interests or pressure groups. The General Assembly of the Icelanders is to serve the peoples of the country and the Athlelah's subject is to help put life into the free economy so that each member can use his own talents for the benefit of himself and others, advance his family, and improve the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u4	A respectable president. I come from the Western Islands and think I'm lucky to have grown up in the nature paradise of the Western Islands. Me and the islanders would love to be nowhere else. In Island, I met my wife, and today I have four children born in the Western hospital. It is now this way in the Islands, as in most parts of the world, that the service stage has gone pretty fast down the past decade. We have a fancy hospital with brilliant staff and a very well - prepared maternity clinic, but it's practically not used today. The same goes for our operating room. I remember it here in the past when a variety of business organisations, individuals, and businesses gathered a lot of money to renew and update the equipment there. I got to check the operating room last fall. It is now used as a storage unit at the same time as waiting for measures in Iceland probably never longer. We have all the resources in the Aegeans so that the services of large groups of patients and at least during the winter months, we can get sufficient rest, and our restaurants are known, not just in Iceland, but beyond the rocks. This position at the hospital regarding the operating room is also seen regarding the arrival of expert doctors in Eyja. They simply stopped coming. Instead, people of all ages travel all the way to Reykjavík, all the way to New York City, in all weathers throughout the year. Since the end of the years, the country has been more and less closed, and part of the journey has often been very difficult for them to sail to the village. Some people stop doing just because of it. Isn't it a little strange to spend hundreds of millions of dollars each year shoveling sand in a landy sea when it's been spent for years that only a little money is needed to complete research on a possible tunnel? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u5	Mr. President. All too often, we talk only about feminism when a group of women are forced to act out stories of gross sexual violence or harassment to arouse society and thus get us who are here to grab the ball and react to it. You see, women just need to be more commodious, even given an answer to a comment that we men have made, and we in the Patriarch community feel uncomfortable listening to and hearing. We'd like to join in with tolerance, but then there's very little happening. How many metoo waves do we need to really figure out the seriousness of the situation, actually realize all the violence and how deep it has happened in society? Then I refer not only to physical or sexual violence but also to systematic violence, to the fact that the basic services for women are impaired, for women only need to be more active not to be hysterical, yes, or not fat. Yes, they need to work harder to be just exactly what society wants. There is evidence that much has been done during the last year, that a good case has been presented here at a council, both by government and by government, and some more is being done. But is that enough? Today, women are still blamed for sexual abuse because of their dress, behavior, or conduct. We're still in that place, despite all that has been done, we live in sex - pay, sexual violence, systematic violence against women, and the rape of women every week. Much is the responsibility of women who just need to work harder not to be raped. This needs to be changed. We need a feminist revolution. We need to take drastic measures in all areas. We need more feminist groups at the General Assembly, change all the laws, institutions, actions, procedures and programs that need to be changed so that we can really talk about society for people of all genders. Come on, girls. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u6	A respectable president. Since the collapse of the bank, trust in the banking system has been low. Although gradually improved, according to a recent Gallup study 23%, which, of course, is not good enough. The banking system is such a big and important part of our fine society that it is essential for the overall harmony up to that level of trust. In this context, I would like to mention a recent U.S. government sale at a stake in Iceland Bank, which was fundamentally necessary and effective. I'm not going to make it a subject of her conduct, as I have no basis for it as it was entirely in the hands of experts of the independent institution of the Bank Office. However, it is of utmost importance that this land's development is as transparent as possible, and especially that it was considered to be professional investors. Of course, the laws and regulations must be followed and must be respected for all the views involved, such as personal protection, bank clearance, etc. President. It must have mattered that these professional investors were not building a bank account, they were shopping at a bank, and what is more government property. It must probably be associated with all the rules to be considered when assessing the rightness of publishing all these data. The need for this to be clearly defined, especially because of the importance of these sales, there is no need for undue distrust and, therefore, a lack of confidence in the whole banking system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u7	A respectable president. It's a large group of people who have been exiled from our rich society just because they get sick. The state of mental and physical health afflicts a group of people after Covid and is rapidly deteriorating, as well as the potential for these people to meet unexpected health expenses. The house - to - house situation of a perimeter group in Icelandic society is rapidly getting worse, especially in renters. More than 200 sufferers are disfellowshipped from their homes because of illness, transfering needy ones to nursing homes for elderly people. How pathetic is that? Elderly people pay all their time in a pension fund but live in poverty because of its chain damage. The worst - language efflux problem in the United States continues to be applied to older people who are confined to the hospital and who are not given the appropriate service in the right environment. Then there are still a number of people on the waiting list band that slowly and bites on addiction, damages, or just into disability. The government must stop the waiting list system, making sure those in need of vital action receive service immediately. It is absurd to harm sick people with endless waitings for a waiting list for necessary medical procedures. It is a ridiculous solution to keep medication in the air for months, even for years, and it is a disgrace to us in this room. At the same time, after Covid, large numbers of people who need physical therapy, but they can't make it because there are a lot of increases in physical therapists. And why? Yes, because the government refuses to negotiate with a physical therapist, refusing to negotiate with specialists, refusing to negotiate that people can afford health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u8	Mr. President. Engouttrias is a disease that can cause ulcers of long-term pain and infertility. The pain can be so great that they make it impossible for people to live a normal life. In view of this, how remarkable it is that by the year 2022, health science and our health - care systems are not more interested! Instead, patients are subject to signs of loss of understanding and inactivity, and they come across many walls of the health system. For some, the challenge is to get the necessary cure outside the geystice. It's true here to assume that the disease affects only women, in fact, about 10%, but only women. Recently, there have been women who describe their tragic childbearing experiences in which either mother or child suffered permanent harm, even death. Sadly, such things can never be prevented by all, I believe, but what these women have in common is the experience of not being listened to. They found, and they knew that something was wrong; they knew the solution, but they were not heard. Some time ago, I participated in a discussion about the successful economy of Iceland, where I quoted from the book Invisible Women, or Invisible Women, by Criado Crierea Perez. The book gives numerous indications that the world has been designed with men as a measuring line for all. A special chapter on health matters shows how women suffer and even die because of the lack of information about the effects of certain diseases and the effects of certain medicinal products on them, how these factors are studied in men, even when it comes to drugs primarily used by women and due to diseases that are mainly affecting women. Mr. President. There are many challenges faced by our health system and the burning of various fires. But that does not justify our continuing in this discrimination. A health minister and all of us members are simply responsible for answering the call. [[The president calls.]] One is purebred pussy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u9	A respectable president. They are more concerned about their work places than with members of the Parliament. Professional officials have expressed concern about the lack of staff, including the need for staff. in the travel and restaurant sector, and fear that this deficiency will remain. As we Icelanders become less concerned with creating children, a major international labor force is called for a large increase. The problem is more complex, as we know, the lack of housing is here, and when it begins to happen, it is an obstacle to the fact that foreigners come here to work. Where do we have the staff we need to live? At the same time, warning bells ring in the workforce. The recent analysis of the employment community tells us that Iceland is increasingly looking to the public for new jobs while the private sector is making new jobs with foreign workers. As the number of workers in the public sector increases, the number of private companies is reduced. This is in line with complaints that have reached my ears from professional drivers who say they run a training camp for state workers. As soon as the official advertisement comes from experienced employees, they jump to and move to the warm, safe embrace of the state. There's every reason to stop and rethink government services, including those of the United States. the absence of further exposure. Private companies have adapted to changing environments and technologies by reducing the cost of staff service as well as improving customer service. The government has not changed organization and practices to the same extent. The government is beginning to offer better in all areas, as good or as better pay, more security, and better hours of work. This is a dangerous development. The market should be responsible for the development of pay and other remunerations. That is where the value comes from. That's where the funding comes to pay for government services.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u10	A respectable president. Smoking's gardening school has been neglected. He has been financed, and he has done so for many years. The nation's pressures are changing. That is where gardening school's work is of vital importance. We prefer things that are self-sufficient, environmentally and green. In view of this, it is important that we support such production and study related to it. V.E.G. At the beginning of 2021, a former minister of education and cultural Alfreðsdóttir reported that an Lilja's trade in smokes in Alfusi was transferred under the hat of South University and thus from the National Farming University of Iceland. V.E.G. The minister of education and child care then confirmed this decision. The decision seems to be well - thought - out, as it is still not clear whether a building will follow. Current facilities are in crumbling, requiring much maintenance if they are actually going to follow the gardening school. As it now looks, the agricultural university seems to own the building. A plagiarization motion suggests that, instead of the bad things done, the school is made up of a self - possession agency and that it can ensure permanent support. I am an importer of the proposal, along with all the council members of the South district, with the exception of the forward party members. We request that adjustments in the gardening school be made as a complete consultation with students, staff, and his campers. No one knows the best interests of the school. A respectable president. I have to say, the conduct of the world. The minister of the parish at the gardening gardening school is unique, so it is not even said that this is an education that needs to be lived for a longer time, and the need for more people with horticultural education will just increase. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to make it a subject of the future of the Land Hospital for the McKinsey report that came out the other day. According to the report, there seems to be a trend toward a decline in beds much more than half, i.e. In the year 2040 the Landspians will be able to care for only half of the patients looking there. By certain measures, the situation may be half better, i.e. However, that the land hospital cannot care for 25% of the patients who are looking for him. Instead of the 85% of target evacuations, it will be 125%, the world record. Mr. President. It's such a huge story that I think there's a great need for a special discussion about the report as soon as after Easter, and there are other things in it as well as I've already considered. But in the historical context, this is not new news. The land hospital on Ring Road opened up in December 1930. Less than six months later, he was finished, and he has been. Thus, there has been a shortage of beds at the Land Hospital for 91 years. To run the country's most important institution in inadequate housing for over 100 years is the tragedy of patients in the Hospital. The National Hospital book was published for the 50th anniversary of the Hospital in 1980. There, the former Ministry of Health, Páll Sigurðsson, writes in the foreword of the book by permission of presidents: And in fact, the entire building record is evidence that at any given time, a large group of officials have felt that such structure was unnecessary. Today, it is identical with the telecommunications forces that make plans for new construction projects on the Land Hospital unnecessary and too costly. A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate my request to put this case on schedule so we won't repeat the story.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u12	There is no prejudice against colored people here, said no colored person ever, writing a young woman on her Facebook page this morning, the highest. President. Icelandic society needs to realize that racism is not something that is practiced abroad but that is the daily and relatively commonplace lot of people living here in a country that someone might appear to be unable to trace back to the Middle Ages in the Book of Iceland. Rasism can appear in a relatively harmless but very tiresome way, e.g. by a person being addressed in English at a store or at the workplace. It may appear as an harassment directly and indirectly: May I touch your hair? Where are you from? From the British hole? No, I mean, where are you from? and so you could continue to count. Then there are these dreary capitalisms, which can be read in the chains of the media and direct personal attacks and disgusting innuendos of anonymous individuals. President. Happily, the nation's top rulers rarely expose themselves in this way as minister of the wood, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, the highest. I have to say, I'm afraid I've got to say, I've been doing at the FTA with the Mayor's Commission. There, ministers and members of Congress were broken, all rules of morality, and likely laws. The minister, like all of us employed, is an example, and we have more demands on us than are citizens in this country because we are elected agents. It was also pathetic, Mr. President, to listen to prime minister yesterday from this chair, Minister of Equal Opportunities and Human Rights, do not respond conclusively and condemn the conduct of his government minister. Thus she could have added her weight to the scales against Rasisma, Iceland. The roots are deep. The suffering is great, and we must face it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u13	A respectable president. To promote greater well - being and building, we need to expand our economy. Me and the Icelanders are supposed to feed the most promising interest in the economy. Young companies create good work for the future and a lot of export revenues. Many good things have been done here on the basis of increased reimbursement of research and development costs, and taxable motivations have also been implemented for individuals investing in innovation companies. Yet, we face a shortage of technologically educated people. We need to attract more foreign experts to serve here. In this regard it is necessary for the General Assembly to review immigrant legislation and employment licenses so that existing regulations for foreign experts coming here from outside the EU will be more efficient than it is today. The wealthiest nations are putting forth the most important effort to develop and give sustained support to innovation and then especially to think. For example, Israel has taken major actions in behalf of the domestic technology industry. A total of 25.4 billion dollars last year, a 136% increase from year to year, were reached by the local firm. There, technological giants have grown at tremendous speeds with the result of society's prosperity. In the United States, foreign experts may have a 25% decrease in income taxation stocks for the first three years, and I believe we should both increase this rate and increase the number of years of this discount. That's how we increase Iceland's competitiveness. We've got the wood and the money, but we're desperate for people. Let us take steps to obtain the foreign - language specialists we need. If we want to continue to improve our welfare and structure, we must invest in the development of innovation in Iceland. Let's put the teat down and get the shovel on.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u14	A respectable president. A daily racist and aestheticism still exist, which is a good way of life within the government. If indicated, the word can be spoken at the highest rate. The prime minister needs to accept the statement. The minister of wood has not been discussed in the area of the government this morning or in the left movement, specifically on the green market. I refuse for my part to accept that traditional Rasism and woman contempt are good approved by the government of the Icelandic conservatives. Should we really believe that it is a human error that the head of the advance party did not address the mayor of Iceland's Farmal Association, Vigdís Ósk Häsler's Sveinsdóttir, by her name as appropriate but, rather, if he chose, if he chose, again he chose to use it on grounds of gender and race? The greatest members of society. A minister of wood has been entrusted with the questionable role of apologizing for his actions, and they directly suggest that this is just what happens. A respectable president. Such language may be our daily bread for the advance team, but it certainly does not belong to all political parties. A respectable president and the Excellency of a Senate world. I'm gonna take this opportunity and remind you that it's not enough to apologize. A mind must follow. V.E.G. Ministers of wood may think he apologized, and worse, ministers in the traditional government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter seem to think so too. The empty talk of the minister's own excellence, his belief in equality, the delicate feelings of others, and the fact that human mistakes as naturally as the sun's resurrection in the morning are not an apology, and now a minister of law refuses to express himself to the media. A man who was sorry about his behavior would use such an opportunity to clear up his stand. It seems that the Minister of wood is just sad that he was there. Don't you think it's best just to resign?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u15	Mr. President. In recent years, there has been a loud awareness of racial prejudice, where white people in the privileged position have been encouraged to listen, accept, learn, and do better. It seems that not everyone in the Board of Management Board received the memo under the recommendation of an inside minister, a racist comment during a recent assembly. Not only has the prime minister then declared that they are responding to the minister's apology but they have suggested that the whole nation do so, follow their example, and embrace the minister after this foolishness. There are two major challenges. First, the prime minister is a white ruler, she is in a vast privileged position, and how is she to tell people who have to endure prejudice and racism every day that it is all right just to lose these things, forgive the minister, and continue? Should not the consequences be deeper when ministers of the bottle are fundamentally such as not being racist? Second, ministers always serve as representatives of Iceland abroad. Even if the whole nation forgives the minister of the wood, we cannot overlook the embarrassing ignorance that they expose globally. They show in darkness the blindness of the minister's privileges and reality of people who have to endure prejudice and embalmation. It should be clear to everyone that man is not his job, for such ignorance will not just be corrected by an apology, no matter how sincere it may seem. Government leaders need to see their own worth in accepting the experiences of those who are prejudiced in Icelandic society and clearly show that racist thinking has not passed away in Iceland's government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to promote a case that has been raised many times here in a council hall, which is a gay blood transfusion. On March 16, new laws began in France, allowing people to donate blood regardless of sexual orientation. So I quote in the words of the French health minister, by permission of the President: We're removing discrimination that can no longer be justified. In recent years other countries, e.g. Greece, Hungary and United Kingdom, relaxes the rules against blood transfusion of homosexual and bisexual men. In a proposal to conclude a plan of action on the affairs of queer people, 2022/2025, the highest. The prime minister of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has submitted, and is now being discussed in the General and Education Committee, is proposed to a regulation change with the objective of excluding the differences taken by blood transfusions on the basis of sexual orientation. Of course, the matter is about the safety of blood recipients, so none of us want to give a discount. The situation is, however, that according to the French Ministry of Health, the risk is one in 11.6 million, or possibly one HIV infection caused by blood every four years. I'm asking, "Is that a bigger number than that of walking with other infectious diseases and blood transfusions, such as hepatitis? Or are we still looking at archaic views from the time of the AIDS epidemic in the 1970's? We will never be able to guarantee 100% of safety with blood transfusions, whether it is HIV or other infectious diseases. During the last term, the case was well followed by the then health - care minister. Now I'd like to call for that case not to be forgotten and that we don't fall asleep on our guard. I ask for a health minister and a member of the United States to secure funding and enforcing so that we can risk this discrimination once and for all. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u17	President. Ministers of wood have found that behavior that is disturbing for Ministers in the government and the chairman of the government class. He has slipped away from the media, refusing to answer in a way that he intends to shoulder responsibility and to make up for his offense differently from a sorry request for community media. Now, at the General Parliament for a financial discussion and for the secretary of the infrastructure to be present to answer questions about their issues. It cannot be said, Mr. President, that the Council will continue as if nothing had been done, for the government is running for a greater part of the council. So I request a minister to appear before the council, to state his case in a statement by Article 61. As a result, Congress allows members of the Parliament to have a word with a minister. A minister must make a clean standing before the council and the general public before proceeding any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u18	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson is a member of the council, and he is a minister for the greater part of the Generals. In this room, we must insist that he answer for his conduct and not just show the media his bottom. Yesterday, the prime minister said that she did not question the integrity of Sigurður Ingi, the man who did not apologize until after a political assistant had failed to lie him out of the matter. From now on, it was the highest expression. Social minister is in the sense that society should learn from this, learn from the progress of Sigurður Ingi. He said he was hoping that this would at least help us as a community not to get involved in this kind of act. He's taking over the responsibility of society all over the world. It is the community to learn from this, but the integrity of Sigurður Ingi will not be questioned, says prime minister. Mr. President. We can't just sit there and shut up about this. I'll take what I want. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for a minister to make a clean door for himself, according to Article 61. Congress. [[The president calls.]] It's just a minimum requirement before we proceed to Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u19	The president wants to say that he has had a meeting with members of the council on the arrangements for the discussion today and the schedule for the day and the day tomorrow. This request did not come out, so the president intends to continue the program as planned and members of the Parliament were informed and joined in molding.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u20	A respectable president. Great power comes with great responsibility. Sadly, we have seen that prejudice in society is difficult to eliminate. We see this in many forms, as I mentioned earlier in my talk about the activities of the council. Young people are saved in homes where they do not belong. We see that a minister becomes aware of a statement far from being honorable. But the question is, did he break the law? If that is the case, can he apologize and continue, or does he really need to handle it and clean up his door and explain it precisely to the person and here at the council that he has not violated the law? I believe the Minister is obliged to appear before the council and explain his case, according to Article 61. Act of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u21	President. The famous basketball coach, John Wooden, once said with the permission of a president that the true measure of individual morality was what he was doing when he thought that nobody was paying attention. As representatives of the High Council, we must make the requirement for ourselves and for those represented here by voters that racial hatred and miscreantness no longer be allowed to pass away, whether it happens within this hall or outside. Words come with responsibility, power comes with responsibility, and if we are to call ourselves a country of equality and human rights, if the highest. If these are not all empty words, the prime minister will be responsible for the highest responsibilities of international equality and rights. Minister of wood.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u22	V.E.G. President. I come up here to support the request of Halledora Mogensen, why. Pier Pirata's chairman, and I like the role of the Supreme Court. The president and the arrangement we have at the council to discuss with each other so that the secretary of the hall, talk to a body of Congress, and we can exchange opinions, look into the eyes, and talk to each other like a decent person. That's what this room is for. That is why it is likely and simple to grant our request and to bring that conversation to the very first opportunity here at the High General Assembly so that the Minister of wood can make clean before his door and his head. Elders can discuss the situation as it is, and all of us in this room show that we can live up to the work we have been assigned to do and under the moral standards we have set for ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u23	A respectable president. I come up here to say what I want here. I consider this matter to be the nature of the issue that needs to be discussed in this very room. That caught my attention at the top. The minister of wood was not among the ministers who were here for an unprepared inquiry class yesterday. It seems that the case is in a way that will not be his tomorrow either. He's getting away from the main course. He's not answering the press. We do know, however, that his political assistant has been in close contact with the media. She has explained the confusion that took place until she was corrected for it. Then the conversation with the advance party ended. I put a question mark on how sincere and how serious that apology was to the highest degree. A minister made that statement in the context of his being completely up against the wall. This conversation is essential in this room. [[The president calls.]] I agree with that wish.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u24	A respectable president. Hv. Senators and a dear nation. I've traveled more than reasonably in all the world, and everywhere I come, I say I'm from Iceland, and I'm very proud of it. I was in Bangkok in two places the same day. I said, "I'm from Iceland." Then said my neighbour, Eiður the Guðjohnsen of Crohn's? I was in Buenos Aires, and then my neighbor said, " GusGus." But what I wanted to say to you is this: In 1991, I went to San Diego to offer Jón Sigurðsson, who later became minister, and he took me to a meeting of Icelanders in the San Diego International Park. There were 40 people, most of whom did not speak Icelandic, and many of them had never been to Iceland. But they were so proud of being Icelanders that they needed to let everyone know. I'm just saying, it looks like something to who.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u25	Mr. President. We've stepped forward to the highest level. Ministers of the government and of each other try to minimize what took place this weekend, even though an assistant may have been serving at the highest level. Enforcer has failed in this respect. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are not merely talking about comments that were unfortunate or otherwise unfortunate. Then, in 2018, the Allied Act took the initiative. prime minister on equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic background The law forbids all discrimination in all areas of society, including what is defined as harassment. Stress is defined as conduct that is indiscriminate to what is happening to her and that has the purpose or effect of displeasing the person, especially when acting leads to threatening, hostile, humiliating, humiliating, or insulting circumstances. It's a law of the highest order. The prime minister took the initiative to appoint the Allied Council. It's obvious at the height. There has been a violation of this law of the wood minister, which should be sufficient for an apology. [[The president calls.]] I insist. We have a secretary of the wood to make a statement on the basis of Article 61. Act of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u26	Mr. President. According to this 61 st. has it so that the president can authorize political counsellors and presidents to make a special statement and then, according to the events of other representatives, respond. This involves a warrant, probably not an invitation, a president of a few advisers. But I agree with the members of Congress who have requested the help of the president in asking the Minister to come here and encourage this discussion. I don't have to say anything more about the seriousness. However, I would like to point out that in addition to the inconspicuous words and comments of the Prosecutor's candidate on the matter, the Supreme Court is drawing near. Secretary of education and child care, I think I'm correct, the lesson in this case that the community needs to learn everything. I'm going to allow myself to disagree. But I'm going to say that the Council needs to learn from this. We need to be careful about how we react in this matter. Hv. The head of the parish, not just the Minister, is a senator. It is a stain on all of us in this regard, and I have requested a discussion here on the subject and the consequences and lessons we should learn from this by the Council but from the public outside. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u27	President. The president spoke earlier about the negotiations for the next two days or so. Good-bye. This case and request to follow page 61 of pars. There's just an addition to that, it happens on Thursday or somehow, as much as it can be done. During this discussion, I find the most interesting and the most important thing we would ever have to talk to. Minister of wood a few decades ago, in 1991. paritaprevir Tómas A. Tómasson came in earlier, made the former president of the United States a sort of attack on political rights. Thus, political rights is about making a covenant with us not to use our position to attack minorities. Since then, a term has been turned into a particular curse, an attack on the freedom of expression in some way, which is very contrary, since, of course, those who cannot bear a hand in their heads do not have to do so. [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what all these songs are all about here, 2018. [[The president calls.]] That is why it is so important that we take this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u28	Mr. President. About the seriousness of the recommendation. We don't have to multiply, but I'd like to mention that, at the same time, we're on the General and Education Committee to discuss changing the law on equal treatments regardless of race, ethnic background and other ethnic differences. It directly forbids discrimination, slander, or ridicule from certain groups. Because 61st C.E. If the President allows a minister to come and make a statement, I'd like to encourage the highest order. The secretary of the wood to ask for this declaration. Otherwise, talk through 2nd. about this bill will be at least to some extent, we are going to respect the laws we are putting ourselves in those spoken words.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u29	A respectable president. I come up here to agree with the request that is placed here. That's perfectly clear. Sixty-one. that the President can authorize what is asked of us if there is any reason to do so. Sadly, the highest response cannot be understood. The general president of the United States just changed his mind so that he doesn't feel it's necessary. Therefore, we, if necessary, shall be in the position to speak to the highest. head of the seminars and chairman of the Specialist Party on political issues today at the same time as at least Two ministers in the Iceland government did not trust to declare their support to him at the end of a government meeting this morning. V.E.G. Secretary of finance says: "I'm not going to go to any trouble to help out if the Minister should resign. The head of the university, industrial and innovations, they didn't want to talk about whether it was the highest. The inside minister should resign. Is it possible for the members of the government to have a word with the Minister in this regard when there is not even a possibility that other government ministers will support him fully, as is the situation that exists today so clearly? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u30	Mr. President. Last time the Minister reported a report. Sixty-one. A political law took it 17 minutes. I don't think it's gonna make things worse if we find that time on the schedule, and I tell myself that I'm ready to make the coffee break if it's necessary to do so. I'd also like to point out that I have made myself known to the representatives here, to me, to all the political groups in which we all declare our will to have this discussion at the highest level. Minister. It's just a matter of fact, it's just a matter of course. It's the board of directors who haven't expressed themselves about it. Does this mean, then, that the governmental groups do not want this discussion to take place? Has the situation in the board become sensitive, as reflected in it, for example. that the head of the Independence Party, when asked if he will support the Minister of Residents, doesn't say yes. That's the only answer available when you're a government minister. If you support the government as Minister, you'll say, "Yes, I don't think he should resign." I don't care about Alegan Arna Sigurbjörn, who I think is what, vice president? A secretary? At least she's the minister of the Party. [[The president calls.]] She did not want to be ignored if she supported the minister of the wood. [[The president calls.]] Can't they stand the discussion here because there's no love left in this?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u31	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I don't think it's necessary to interfere with any of the Senate activities here, in part, with the activation of this 61st section. Congress, unless it's the least. I think it could help with the council work today and the next few days if this article was activated and ministers would come here and clean up their door. We at the Council are placed in a strange position with this career minister and with this vague answer and the blurred position of his fellow minister, and I think it's crystal clear that it would be disrespectful to people of foreign origin in Iceland if we were to continue our financial discussion as if nothing had happened. We can't do that. So again and again, I accept the requirement of the 61st par. the Parliamentary legislation will be implemented and the Minister for at least The invitation is to clean up the door.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here a second time to back up with what's presented here. I believe there is good reason for this conversation and for this discussion to take place here at the Hall of Congress right now. This is simply the case. I'd like to name it as well. Councilmen here are talking about that it's the government opposition alone in this room today, asking for this. Sometimes the silence includes strong messages. There's a message in it when it's the highest. The minister of forwards in circles looking for his secretary's car outside the Minister's Office, refusing to answer any questions. There's a message in the way too. Ministers of the Independence Party speak. However, we need this conversation to be held here in this room today. This matter needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u33	A respectable president. I just want to say a little bit about the fact that my words are being recited here at the Senate Hall, claiming that I refused to give the Minister a proclamation. It's just wrong. What I was responding to was a reporter's request to take a stand for whether another politician should resign, and it's just my opinion that there's no such thing as the fact that one politician says another should resign. In fact, there are some here at the council Hall who have often expressed their opinion that I should resign, and I have not seen it, and I believe that an attitude toward that question lies just with the minister himself. Whether I trust to serve with the highest power. A minister shows up by a man attending a government conference and we're in good cooperation and we've had a good cooperation. If people are trying to win a game of getting someone from the management team to defend the highest word. Minister, and so create some opponent, I think it can be handled once and for all. Of course, the words are indefinable, and the minister himself has declared that he will not try to defend them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u34	President. When the request was asked for a 61st parr. Congresss back then failed at the highest rate. By somehow blaming members of Congress; that they had not been on the program, that there had been another discussion, and that nothing had been mentioned at a council meeting. Instead, it would have been the highest. Perhaps the president could say, "Yes, that's a good idea. Let's meet up later and discuss it together. There are new situations, especially when people say something. People say things that may require a little thought and discussion. As the discussion unfolds, people may be given ideas about the matter and a deeper understanding of it. So I expect the president to accept this request and ask the council a little debate by saying that he is going to meet with members of the council and talk about it for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u35	A respectable president. I was going to come up here and say that those council members who have expressed themselves on this matter, and some ministers have done just that in my opinion. But I would like to mention that when ministers are asked outside the Ministerial Office or the Board of Directors whether they trusted other ministers, the answer is simple: Yes. Yes, I trusted in him, but there were two ministers who said after the meeting, two, that they didn't trust themselves to make this statement: [[Up front.]] ▪ It is the matter of the individual to evaluate it, and I am not going to make a effort to help. - I'm not going to go to any trouble to help with that. V.E.G. The head of the university, industrial, and innovation wanted to ignore whether she felt that Sigurður could continue as a minister for the case. After what other government conference would this exchange have been like this? No one, no one else at least Not now. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to examine these comments in that light. I can easily understand that this is a difficult situation within the governments, and I can understand the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance will answer that he has so far been able to cooperate við Sigurd, and I will not question it for one minute. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But these comments we're discussing and we're all here, and we have to make it to the council program. [[The president calls.]] This request from the board of directors is reasonable and natural, and I feel that the president should be obliged to accept. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u36	President. In the neighboring nations, I think I am absolutely certain, a minister would now be resigning. It was a racist comment that is beneath the dignity of a minister, beneath the respect of the council, that he should never have left behind. But not enough. This comment is a violation of the law established four years ago by his own government. It's a law of the highest order. Secretary of finance was involved in the setting and other ministers. [[Up front.]] It's the government that made these laws. Will we accept the fact that a minister violates a law that he himself sets, as it were? And not only will he not resign as usual in all other developed democracies but we will not even take up the discussion here in the conference hall because the discussion has been established in advance. I don't think it's okay. I'd like the President to create a little space in the program for the next few days to discuss this matter. [[The president calls.]] We need to talk to the minister about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u37	Mr. President. I'd like to follow it only as long as possible. Einarsson It's a bill we're working on at the General and Education Committee and it's a change to this law as the highest level. The minister of the wood has now fallen into transgression. This caught my attention in a discussion of the change that the law as it holds today and has been valid since 2018 is just a matter of discrimination on the grounds of race and ethnic background. Today, discrimination factors are being added, such as disability and other factors that tend to discriminate people. These laws as they are today appear to have not been applied. It seems that they have not been carried out. It doesn't seem to have been done, and I wondered: " Why are we adding discrimination factors at the highest level? The prime minister himself who is suggesting this is clearly not serious about this law? What are these laws for if they don't even apply to Ministers in the Supreme Court? Government?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u38	Then the president reminds us of what was mentioned earlier; the following is a general debate over financial matters for the years 2023 families027 following the history of finance and economic ministers. After a minister, all members of Congress will speak up. After a general discussion of the plan, the Ministers will participate in discussions about individual lawsuits today, tomorrow and Thursday morning. Enforcement must be given in the history of financial and economic ministers, i.e. it will be certain that representatives of all government groups can respond to the minister's speech and that the time will be in response to two minutes for the previous answers and answers and one minute for the second, both for a minister and for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u39	A respectable president. I recommend a judicial hearing on the financial agenda for the period 2023 a2027, which has been distributed on the roof. 735. This is the first financial programme of a new government, which basically builds on the current financial and financial agenda adopted at the World Council last February. In the program, the government's focus on stability, economic progress, and a high level of value is reflected on solid foundations of the past few years. A successful post - a - pandemic situation shows that whites keep their financial balance completely out of money, use of this tail to defend the standard of living, and support a dynamic reversal. To promote continued success, the policy remains clear. The growth of budgets has to be reduced and the foundation trusted to defend structure and can meet unexpected events in the future. The government's position of debt was not a barrier to the battle against the economic consequences of the pandemic, where there was room for compromise and an increase in debt. By doing so, we were able to support our economy, and we initially said that we wanted to do more but less because the cost of doing too little was often greater than that of temporarily overworking. At that time, society was solidly based on responsible economic management over the past few years, where economic growth was new to keep the budget balanced. As a result, it was possible to respond with full force when the shock struck, do more than half as well as stand with homes and businesses. Government budgets for the epidemic, except for over 280 billion dollars. By 2020/2022, their magnitude was highest between 2020 and 2021. The financial agenda is a sign that public finances are being considered. The global epidemic is in remission, a two - year - long recession period is completed, and ahead is a new economic growth. We need to consider achieving sustainability and balance in the terms of the government, with which we trust the foundation. The objective of the government is to draw ever closer to surviving halls and to stop the increase in the debt of the State no later than in 2026. To achieve this goal, it is important that growth be less than the growth of land production over time. Iceland's National Organization, which is the basis for this strategy, assumes that the economy is looking pretty fast to balance immediately next year. Travel services are expected to increase and unemployment is reduced, but according to the estimate, these are not expected to develop, and they have often followed contractures in the Icelandic economy. It is expected that there will be about 6% per year when a reduction in the annual rate of less than 2.5% of the cost of inflation is expected from 2024 onward. As with other economic conditions, developments following the invasion of Russia in Ukraine affect the situation. For this reason, the effects have not been largely seen in prices for raw markets, which deal with the different availability and demand for the pandemic. Although there are some effects in Iceland, they are considerably less than in most parts of Europe, where many homes depend largely on the transport of gas and oil from Russia. The cost of sex and transportation has thus increased less than in this country. The unsuspecting factors are also within the country, but the development of inflation and growth during the season will depend largely on future labour agreements. There is much to work to preserve stability and the good condition that has come here for the last time. The Habitat's biography study thus suggests that the proportion of households with difficulty in making ends meet has never been lower than in 2021, but in addition, the total burden of housing costs has never been lower. On the other hand, homes have strong, well - funded savings, and the rate of interest costs for budgetary teas has decreased among all income groups. Today, more than half of the available mortgage loans are unconvinced, and the business banks gave higher mortgages with fixed interest than the variable loans in 2021. The proportion of legal households in this country has never been lower than 2021, which was 0.9% at the end of the year. The most important interests in the Icelandic world today are to preserve stability as far as possible, thus working against fluctuations in the economy. It will be best with a healthy overall change, rather than with a specific measure of action every time inflation temporarily exceeds the objectives of the Federal Bank. A respectable president. As stated earlier, a great deal of money for the state's funds is expected compared to previous plans. Improvements are already seen in the revised projections for the current year, with the increase of about 30 billion dollars. Better than expected in the budgets of the year. The budget expected about 186 billion dollars. angle, but it is now assumed to be 158 billion dollars. Economic growth is mainly explained by growth throughout financial planning and intensive growth on the main income stocks of the state's budget. This year's recovery benefits are clarified, including of very strong personal consumption observed at the end of the year. But, up to now, the land production is the most important thing. The income will grow in proportion to national production during the middle of the financial programme and will then be comparable to the amount of 2016-2018. During the pandemic, taxes continued to decline. With a decrease in income tax and a new product target for calculating individual discounts and stepmarks, the tax burden of income-rich groups has been particularly reduced and the provision of revenues increased. During the planned period, the tax system will continue to be fair and encouraging, taking into account ever - changing society. A significant opportunity, as it were, lies in a global review of the taxation of vehicles. There is an opportunity for this in more than one sense. First, we are working on energy exchanges in the country, and we can use this system to achieve our goals there. But in recent years we have also had very appealing rules that have come up with a very high ratio of environmentally friendly cars in importing and in new registrations, but we need to find a new balance for this income line. Fuel and vehicles have been a major part of the government's income stocks, and we need to consider the future as the energy exchange is taking place. During these past years, tens of millions of taxes have been paid to buy on eco-friendly cars, and therefore we have achieved this great success through positive climate impacts and lower domestic cost, let's not forget the factors, either. Along with this positive development, it is important that the more efficient structure and maintenance of the road system can be maintained. During the past decade, the income of the state's money from traffic has been greatly summed up, and we are making changes in our schedule for this time. This includes building a future income - raise system in which the taxation of vehicles reflects increasingly the use of the road system and this new reality in road transport and transport in general. I'm going to go up next to the state funds spending plan. The plan indicates that between 2022 and 2023 are greatly reduced in the temporal support of the chorionic virus epidemic. This is relevant when comparing the State's spending side with that period, i.e. when the past few years are compared with the years ahead. During the prepandemic years, much emphasis was placed on promoting and improving public service, improving transport rights, and raising the state's investment levels. As a result, the State's primary fees in 2016-52019 increased significantly, or about 56% per year for real value. As mentioned earlier, the plan now suggests that growth will be gradual and smaller than the growth of land production over time. This is expected to result in a gradual decline in the proportion of land production over the period of the programme and to be close to 28% of GDP at the end of the budget. This means that the actual growth of the early income will be about An average of 1% per year. It is estimated that the growth in GDP by less than 48 billion dollars is rising. from the current schedule of the year or 4.5% to about $1120 billion. During the next year or 29.2% of GDP. In general, the cost increases by 46 billion dollars. to be worth a year after that or about 3.9%. The largest part of this increase is due to an estimated increase in salary and prices over the period of time of about 37 billion. every year, on average. At the present time, health costs are gaining weight from individual areas, with an estimated total of 1,659 billion expenses estimated. There is also the increase in mental - health services that have been the priority of the government and will continue in the period. Specially lasting increases in mental health care rate of 500 million are expected. K. In the first year of the plan, but 100 million. K. increase in year for the next two years thereafter. A lasting total increase in mental illness totals a total of 1,650 million. K. During the period of 20191⁄22025. The second largest annual budget is social, housing and insurance expenses. Total expenditure in the period is 1,430 billion. and increasing total by 26.8 billion. between 2022 and 2027. During the planned period, you will also have a small amount of time. expected increased donations for review of the microenergy sector of social security, which will emphasise working renewal and various labour market policies. This will increase expenses for increased production of oralfs funds due to an increased number of born children, as well as 12 months for the extension of the orlof, and increases in peak rents. With increased donations for other groups of languages, you can include the following: Consider 900 million. K. will be proposed to introduce new educational policies. That'll be 200 million dollars. A more lasting increase in sexual activity will result in a further 100 billion. K. temporary contributions between 2023 and 2024, to name just a few. However, the largest individual investment in the state continues to be built by a new hospital, studying the total budget of the programme's budget of over 90 billion dollars. This will continue to be the case with green investments through the tax system and the growing support for research and development, which is supported by the new and rapid economic support of the European Union. The export of the software industry is now estimated to be 10% of export, which has doubled since 2014 and increased by 50% since 2018. Iceland is now measuring 17th of 132 nations in terms of innovation activity according to WIPO, global input index, and has increased from 23rd position in four years. The growth of mind - making industry involves improved production of large and marine resources, but a powerful economy is still fundamental when it comes to growing well - being in the period. The use of technical solutions, telecommunications, and spelling of the public will continue to be emphasised, as well as on continuing cooperation with the institutions and the cohesion of companies and systems. The website of Iceland already covers 900 state services, digital mailboxes and a number of auto-remuneration applications, etc. There's an investment project on e-mailing far away, but their social benefits have been estimated at $1.7 billion. In all, the estimated benefits of employing spelling and increasing government efficiency have been estimated at less than 10 billion dollars. every year. It is estimated that the indirect benefits of the entire community could be up to 20 billion. of these tasks. So there is much to do to keep working on the same path. A respectable president. Finally, I'd like to mention that in this financial program, the debt of state funds is expected to increase to the end of 2027 and will be 2,042 billion. There will be an increase in the rate of growth in the range of 7,6◯90 million. K. And as the season passes, much interest is due to the abundance of life debt and benefits, I draw attention to it. It is estimated that the debt rate of state funds will remain to less than 37%, which is far beyond the expectations that one allowed to have recently. It must be said at the same time that the percentages of debt remain very healthy despite the shock. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm going to have a chance to say something later, but I'm going to do it for a while and suggest that the plan be referred to. The legal committee will be after the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u40	President. I've got a rather simple question, but it's still a little bigger in context. Will there be a nursing home after 2024? A rather simple question, you'd think. But the reason for the question is that when asked to build a nursing home on schedule after 2024, it was found that the Ministry of finance was denied. This means that although we know that these nursing homes will not be built, it is not a donation. This is essential. If not, it will cost, according to Mckinseyr's report that came out the other day, 9 billion per year during increased stress as a result of a lack of job or space. 9 billion interest. It's much less there. The absence of this document is simply a lie as to what state's debt is, for these expenditures will have to come about, changing the survival of a trust fund, changing the debt of a state fund. We see here a financial program that has an inexpensive Penitentiary, with a national stadium that is involved in some unscrupulous enterprise, with a nursing home that's not legalized. Should we believe that the end of this financial program is the end of debt? I ask the minister of a simple question: Will there be a nursing home after 2024?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u41	A respectable president. We've got quite a lot of financial resources, including... to perform such tasks as the above. In view of how much money has been possible for this precise purpose, to build a nursing home, it would be very unwise to pretend to place a certain number after 2024. Will they ever be built in a 2024 nursing home? Yes, that may well be the case. But will it call at that point at new sources? I'm not so sure. I'm going to call attention to the fact that by the end of last year, we had 10 billion dollars. It's a ruined budget for the construction of the Hospital. We set at the end of 2020, if I recall just around 1,350 million, in order to reduce the land hospital, to increase the exact amount of space. The budget was permanently in effect last year and is in effect this year. But these patients are still in the hospital. It hasn't lacked the funds. We've got 2.7 billion here. stored legal authority to proceed to that structure. And already it is. A senator claims that we're trying to hide goods or minimize the debt rate it will be in 2024, so I think he just needs to look more carefully at how much money we have. We have to look at each of the specs of the state's funds on national interest, as we watch this now, and then on the base because it has often been that we've been living with a big plan to do a lot of work and to go and do a lot of things, but it's just that there's no place or a way to do things is longer than we're planning. That is why there will be a difference between these two factors, and I would not worry that when the time comes, it will end in financing. A senator is talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u42	President. I'm also not worried that it's going to land on financing. I'm worried that there's money to be raised because it all costs the same thing whenever it's done. If the project is delayed, the budget will be delayed as well. However, the budget for the cost still needs to be available. It's not there right now, which means that when it comes, it needs to be obtained from the Council. It's the General Assembly that's going to administer the budget. Whether it is delayed in one way or another, this information needs to be received by the General Assembly as to what it should be based on. We had a case here where they said no to a bill for the hospital in Akureyri, and they found 300 million on that project shortly after the New Year's Eve. It was taken from other sources for a delayed project. They need to look for more than 300 million to complete their posts. There's nothing to reduce anything just because there's something inaccessible around here. They still need to get the warrant. The situation now is that this nursing home does not have financial authority. [[The president calls.]] If there is to be any other means to be used for a project that will be delayed, the funds will still be financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u43	A respectable president. The plan says, with President's permission: To further mention, at least the time of financial programmes is in preparation to construct at least A six - new nursing home to cope with the changed population age of 12 is the estimated cost of these projects. K.◯ So it's built into this program of enormously large structure, and I have to let myself say it. But in this context - it may be too much of a matter to go over in a short answer, but we're just being wrong in this discussion. We're watching this: How many concrete squares are to be put in a financial programme in a nursing home? We need to rethink this system and start saving the right to get people's own space, but not just to make billions of financial plans, trusting that we can cooperate with them to ensure that these measures will exist. So, as shown in a recent report, we need to lighten the pressure from nurses because we are failing before it comes to the need for such service.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u44	A respectable president. We're talking about a financial plan, nearly 500 pages of publication, kind of a novel, at least does not have much right in it, I can imagine, unless a minister can explain to me how he intends to raise the micro-piercing by 2.5% during this period, year after year in 6 or 7% inflation, and about 3% in the older citizens. As a result of growing older citizens, there must be a 2.5% increase in pension and a half percent increase in older citizens. In recent years and decades, the social security system has reached 50%, in the time of the previous governments and these. At the same time that the wide banks have simply been broken off by this burden on them because of blundering, this government is still going to add. I ask you how in the world do you think you'll also start taking in the pension system, counting it once a year to make another one of your grads? And I ask, Is this reduction in this financial program, including the missing value of reimbursement for the next decade? Unless someone has some special bullet that says that the inflation is disappearing, which is about 7%, and is rising and rising around us, it's barely going down right away. At least that would be at least The minimum requirement for having it just in the first few years. I ask you how in the next four years of inflation, do you get this 2.5% rise? Was it never meant to make up for your hearts the way you promised for your last election?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u45	A respectable president. We're not here to make income tapes next year or next year. We're not filming a new social security system, either. We're here with a plan for the main grounds of earning money and paying off state funds during the programme period. What's underlying on this is Habitat numbers, including on inflation development. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that puts pressure on us in view of how the social insurance laws are worked when it comes to inflation times, but we certainly hope to do so and we are trying to put up with a plan that supports our mastering the inflation in order just to protect the interests of those under it. Otherwise, it's hard to compete with what's happened. A senator in his desire to do good things for the elderly or the elderly because he has spoken many times here for measures that cost the new 100 and 200 billion or at least 200 billion. somewhere in between, in a year. We're already placing more than 10% of all government funds in the case of the elderly. We will. The matter of microbubbles follows closely. So if you look at the story that has drawn up in the history of this government and the governments I've sat on, it's the only feature: it's the growing power of money improvement. In other words, improvement means better enough to survive. But no, this concept is taken as a matter of course. A senator used the dress - up method, and we are suddenly given quite another discussion that our traditional standards, which we have spoken for here, are no longer important. You want to get involved with some new criteria. Of course, when we have succeeded in expanding the pay of those who are in the lowest range of income, the debate comes up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u46	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of finance for the answers that were not very up - to - date because he says he has a large amount of money for older citizens, which is totally wrong. It's just as wrong as this financial plan is because it's an optimistic plan that obviously isn't going to work out. If we're making the 500-page donut, it must be a minimum that's about right. However, at the same time, it says in this dominator that 430 million are to be put in the disability system. At the same time, we are setting a third billion to change the budget, to a third billion. It is being put less in disability than in the so - called media strength, to strengthen the free press. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister: How does he picture the 430 billion? K. will be enough to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u47	A respectable president. It is now difficult to cope with such repeated wrongdoing. First of all, it takes a what. A senator not talking about me making up some story here when we're looking back in time. It's just an experience when we're renovating the past, and you can see how commercial powers have evolved and they're measured. You can also look at this on the history of income. It is not clear that in recent years the level of money gain has grown and has grown substantially and in recent years, it was growing far beyond the financial cost of employees. With regard to the rehabilitation of the pension money, it is one of the best investments we can make because just by highlighting rehabilitation, we have been able to stop the incidence of disability in this country for the first time for a very many years, and a very joyful development has taken place in the past year, and we hope that it will continue for a year. [[The president calls.]] And it's not acceptable to compare what we're going to put in a rehabilitation pension with a change in a board or something like that. [[The president calls.]] Let us take the discussion of what is going on in the general case of disability. There's a little other picture coming up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u48	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance discussed earlier that collective agreements decided in the fall with regard to inflation. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. A financial minister sees how he sees that the conversation will be in a work market in the fall, perhaps in view of the fact that the financial agenda discussed here does not offer any new options to deal with the underlying problems of inflation, housing. You see, there seems to be a recession in a contribution to housing during this terms. As soon as next year, stock productions will collapse to build new apartments. There's a figure of 500 billion. K. increases due to rent rents that seem to be mainly systematic growth because tenants are increasing. This is despite comments and, in fact, the highest promise. Minister of wood and the highest. Prime Minister for the intervention. So I ask: How is it that large groups of languages, large political groups, are at the highest level? Ministers in the same government as the Supreme Court. Secretarys of finance have spoken of changes and practices that would put more money into place, appear to be unmoved, and some tore?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u49	A respectable president. I'm not making any disagreement that conditions at a housing market are quite serious, and we've talked about the opening doors being broken. If we settle over the last ten years of the actions of the governments I've been in, wondering what success we've been able to achieve in reducing the commitment of our homes and in ensuring a lower payment burden, I think that the recent lifetime research of the Habitat is speaking for itself. It was not exactly an impressive situation when we were dealing with the inadequacies of a government that was in charge here in 2009,2013, just to face the fact that the house's debt had become an economic problem that we were able to overcome by very effective measures. It is now said that the domestic problems have already become huge or will occur within a month. What the government has done is restore a team on housing operations. He's taken over. He is led by the same people who did so for the 2019 lifetime contracts. We have proclaimed that our will is to have good consultation with our rural society in order to respond on the forward side. I'm worried about how many people don't see - I'm not saying it here for what it's about. With Kristrún Frostadóttir, but I find it so general during the discussion, it's always called upon to take action that in the end will do nothing but increase demand. I also worry about how badly my rural communities have been moving together, especially here in the capital area, to predict and respond to their needs, e.g. in their regional programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u50	A respectable president. I really need to reiterate my question because it was not answered. Why is this so in spite of mere errors? I can only, by the permission of the president, quote the minister of the wood the other day: The minister is here given a high priority on the development of social housing across the country and has submitted proposals for financial support in the years 20233/42/2027 of a significant increase in funds to increase the development of apartments by public housing... in 1996. This does not appear in this financial program. Why is that? It doesn't mean to continue quoting from these groups of fellow workers. Almost all the ministers of this government have done so, but then the vision just appeared black in whites in this financial program, and there is no change in funding there. However, whether we talk about all the jobs or the special savings we know went to the highest rates of 30% and increased inflation and pressured up the price of housing, there is always money that can be found. I just ask, what happened to the money gain that was supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u51	A respectable president. In the first place, a temporary drop of contributions that have provided the basis for building them can be seen as a change in reality, and it must have been anticipated. But I don't think otherwise, we're gonna have to answer this, so it's just not time to put a certain number on the scale of the government's right to step in. What we've done in recent years is that we've changed the housing system in Iceland, both share loans and the general apartment system. However, I still don't think that all of it was as important to homes and housing as to creating conditions for lower interest. If there's one thing that's supposed to stand out in the fall cycle, I think it should be coming together with the government, which with this plan will show in a way that will reduce the expansion, and that's how the cycle should be about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u52	A respectable president. We will discuss the financial agenda for the next five years and will likely have to do so now for the next three days, at least before the committee will be referred to. Sometimes it's hard for me to put my arms around these things. I've been hearing many reports of financial and economic ministers being told about a great deal of domestic recovery, that they've never been better. Then it said the highest. Ministers that divorce had never been lower. But when you look at it - let's just take an example of a person who rents housing for 200,000 bucks. a month, and just because it increases to 14,000 bucks by the inflation rate, it's only 14,000 bucks. increase. That $25,000-he pays his taxes, he pays his social fees and contributions to a pension fund, and if he's in good condition, he may put the 500-man in his special account. So that only about 13,000 are left standing. But the building may have raised it, $13,000,15,000. And then you ask, "What is the provision? ' Because the person will pay for rising fuel prices, he will pay for rising food prices. This is just what the group of people who are in the striped hatches of a job market are dealing with. To look at some average anywhere in the world when the average wage in Iceland is between 700,000 and 800,000 k. this group is in trouble. And talking about a great improvement in these homes, I just don't make any sense. All I have to do is ask for an explanation on this recovery thing that's being talked about here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u53	A respectable president. I'd encourage them. A senator to examine the history of income and the course of life. Then he'll see that if we look back in 1991, we'll probably find in Iceland one of the most social mobilitys in the world, which tells us that people in that position. A senator is here discussing, has more potential in Iceland to break out of that position than in other communities. This is also the basis for our repeated speech to a society that ensures the most equality in the standard of living. If we take a closer look at the position of those with the smallest amount of income and their housing security, I have to refer to the fact that we have been here making reforms of the housing market with the general housing system, building up, and at the lease by housing. It's all at the same well. We cannot solve these problems by pouring any further oil on the fire. We need to ensure that the forward side will be in order, and here the economic management, in cooperation with the workforce, is maintained and is maintained. That's one of the biggest interests I see in my life. We've been talking a lot about growing up lately, understandable. At that time, many may be in a tight condition and may first be confined to less income - rich homes when growth and inflation occur. But there is a bit of courtyards in the debate that interest level is still just one of the best, if we look over a longer period of time. We have returned to a stature that was comparable to what was two or three years ago, one of the lowest we had seen in 20 years. If there is one lesson we can learn from this, he will be able to do well if we stick together and agree on the main emphasis.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u54	A respectable president. I was reminded of the motto of the Independence Party in leading the last election for the land of opportunity, the memory of the United States, that should be the land of opportunity, where there is an inequity of the world. Then there is the provision and housing status. I know now, after a couple of decades of a collective agreement, that when we agreed to establish the budget in 2015, which was now introduced to the General Relations Act, there was a total of 2,300 stock productions that were to be divided in four years. A year it would have been built at 575 apartments, but it never came to that conclusion. But if we look at this contribution that's in the program right now, it seems to me now, if I calculate it to 50 million. K. the cost of an apartment, to be one of 200 stock contributions per year. This project is being reduced from 4,500 to 200 per year. One might ask himself: " Is this acceptable?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u55	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator would attend a meeting of those who had preferred to build such apartments would meet him with people who told him the story that rural society is simply not ready for building property, unfortunately. It hasn't been financing. This is part of this supply problem that we are always discussing. There is somewhere in the future where property will have been expected to be ready and perforated, etc., but structural weights below these facilities have not been available. That's bad. And I have to say, if I remember correctly, in 2012, it's just not good. That's not good enough. Although we seem to be able to see only a few hundred feet [a few hundred m] down the road, we are going a long way.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u56	A respectable president. This is where the cards lie in front of us. This is the plan for the terms of the season. This is the government of the systematic growth, a government that updates documents without political policies, a government that has extended macropolitan decisions to government officials who strategize lawsuits. Systemic growth accounts for all changes in this financial program. They don't even trust themselves to expand their periods of maintenance. We are faced with a large project, a modified world picture; the aftereffects of a pandemic, the largest inflation for 12 years, the broken housing market, the war in Europe, and so on. A government with a financial program that involves extrapolation. Do they live in a reality other than the rest of us? The highest financial program. Government reports that the largest budget of the period is social and insurance, 26 billion dollars. That 26 billion francs. Everything is systematic growth. Here is the basis for the growth of disability and for the development of the document. That's not 26 billion bucks. in improved or better terms for these groups. That's 26 billion bucks. which will be added to the financial expenses to live under current social security laws. By permission of the president, the government covenant made: The survival of a pensioner will continue, and especially of those who fail. Furthermore, the matter of micro-energy transplant recipients will be reviewed during the terms of the election and in particular looked to for improvement. No, nothing like that will be done. There's no legal warrant for that kind of thing here. And what about the big health press? Hospital service, yes, there goes ahead. In particular, we know that the calculated real - life growth, which is nothing more than a complex relationship to the pressure in the hospital because of national aging and proliferation, is 1.8% in the financial models. It is, in fact, archaic, but well. And what does this financial program reveal to us? Just 1.8% growth rate in the hospital service joint. The same is true when it comes to nursing and rehabilitation services, 1.8%, where real growth is involved. Is it best to say that during the last budget, the funds derived from this calculated physical growth for the health system were all used to cover costs for better shift work hours? As far as we can tell, there's a plan back now. What does that mean? Yes, it was under attack to reduce the pressure of health - care professionals by reducing their hours of work unless they now pay for these fewer hours of work with financial resources that would otherwise be used to cope with an increased weight of nursing, which would increase stress. The pressure is somehow removed from one pocket into the other. This is a classic example of the politics of this government. They're shifting their salt buds, so they don't understand why their problems blow up. Who thought that better shift hours could be implemented without cost? It will increase activity, reduce disability and coldness, increase the willingness of people to allow themselves to do this work, but it will take a decade. It must be a political will to make initial changes. A report was now being published by the McKinsey Advisory Corporation showing that the new Landspians were already broken in terms of space in the absence of investments for long term care. The report says that for long - term care patients, 240 must be added, such as home care, nursing and rehabilitation, so that the hospital does not explode. The saving of such measures, not immediately apparent, but in time, would be complete for health - care systems of 1◯2 billion, while 9 billion would be at the Land Hospital. There's nothing about this in the financial program. In fact, after 2023 there is no funding for new space, regardless of the highest level. Despite the fact that there was some structure that did not go out, the minister of finance insisted. It just means that there is still more nurses to build. What's going on? We have just listened to the highest. Healthcare Ministers speak for health policy to 2030 for the elderly. There is no exactly any extra money involved. A respectable president. I would like to give a witness. Last month, the secretary of law said in a special discussion at the council on housing matters, with permission: The minister is here given a high priority on the development of social housing across the country and has submitted proposals for financial support in the years 20233/42/2027 of a significant increase in funds to increase the development of apartments by public housing... in 1996. And it goes on to the highest. Minister: 'and, yes, we have a vision for the future.' We've got a plan, and it's gonna be clear. All right. That plan has been clarified. This plan is called a financial plan. Let's take a look at it. The amount of money in housing will be added over the years. The plan contains an additional 0.5 billion dollars, 500 million. In order to meet the number of tenants in the season. This is not an increase in support of the group but simply a systematic growth; otherwise, housing support is joined together. Strain productions to build a general apartment are drawn together by about 2 billion dollars. I'm giving up on the highest. Councilmen here. Is it really okay to just say something? What happened to suggestions at the highest rate. - Minister of wood? - Yes. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget says it's not time. Or were the suggestions just put aside in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as if proposals for the growth of nurses were not financed? This is then the city of Reykjavík. All I can say here is that Reykjavíkurburg thinks it's time to take this situation with double on the available property. Maybe it should be the best. Secretary of finance checking out their troops in the Kragains, how it's going to meet this demand there. Then there's the structure. The inside board was once named, and what led to that internal government? Yes, one year, public investment was able to start properly, and it was through a pandemic. By 2021, the government's investment had finally reached its historic average by 2011, but during this term, it is decreasing again. It is not going to be possible to rebuild the original holding debt in 2013 to 22017. Substitution of the back door through the rural community has made investments in many parts of the country at a level that is completely unacceptable. In recent years, projects have been moved to rural areas without financial support, and instead the rural communities have to hold back the necessary investment. Nowhere in this financial program can we see evidence that this situation will be established. A respectable president. Where did the value of Iceland's bank go in this financial program? The bank collapse resulted in an enormous cost that resulted in an abundant inner debt all over the country. The health system is still damaged after surgery. The public acquired the banks as damage to the bank collapse. The public has been waiting for the structure. The value of the bank crash is now coming back, and we just sail on to a system-wide growth. No attempt is made to make use of the value of reseting our systems, which are disabled after the last shock. Instead of making use of the scope, a favorable growth rate in building up is beginning to reduce the affairs of the State, which will become the least in the century by the end of this terms. V.E.G. The minister of finance is in danger of inflation, and the state can be seen moving. However, understanding does not seem to be in the nature of the system. The building market is broken, and it's on its way to inflation. There are agreements in the fall, but the government is taking empty hands into them discussions, no extra money in housing, no desire to encounter vulnerable groups because of inflation. It's just waiting for the problem to wind up. Whether this is a lack of knowledge of well - being or willing business, I don't know. But, a respectable president, our welfare system is held hostage. The cost of drinking together will run out of control if this Polish account continues to exist. It's not political policy to put just a little more money into a innovation fund. The road systems shape the foundation on which everything is built and can't be returned. These incomprehensible statements are a serious matter. Either French ministers are left green and advance will deliberately mislead the nation when they praise welfare improvements that are not supported by the Ministry of finance or that are not read on their own financial plans and therefore who is actually in charge here. I don't really know what's worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her speech. She mentioned the situation of the local society for this reason, and I think most of us can agree that their position is double, so it's not fixed. There is an endless battle between state and rural society on what each administrative level should pay and then on how rural society can earn money in order to carry out their duty under law. There's a question about disabled people's affairs that they have to say, they're in harm's way. The rural communities have declared that they are in the underball business with this group of 9 billion. Of course, we would have wanted to see in some way that we were trying to correct this, since this group is only becoming more difficult and more difficult, increasing our ministry, and growing as we think only differently about our people. We didn't just send it to a sanatorium somewhere, as was done in the old days and lock them in. We're dealing with these people like humans today, which means it costs more money. I'm asking why. In this financial program, a senator sees somewhere in the community that they should try to meet their communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir God's Guðbrandur, Einarsson for the question. The simple answer to this is no. There is no discussion about the division between the state and the community in this financial program. It may just be the big lines like the highest. Secretary of finance said before, but I'd say that would be a rather large line if they were to revise the business of the state and rural society. I also wondered in this context where Harald, Líndalur of Haraldsson, is, so often quoted, but we never get officially. This report has been processed. Is this report uncomfortable right before the district election? I don't know. The numbers have flown all over the place, so they're perfectly acceptable. It's 9 billion short, like what's wrong. Einarsson Guðbrandur said here earlier, in a case of disabled people. That's 5 for the city of Reykjavík. The year before, it was 5 billion. That's an amazing amount of money. It's almost just a tax-grad bed for a government fund of about 1% actuality a year. It's a really heavy group of paintings. This holds back the investment problem of the rural society, and this is not mentioned at all in this financial program. There's no mention of the income exchange. Of course, there is high hopes for a successful bill to succeed. Child-friendly ministers will do very well and that the one and a half billion that it will cost, and things will go through the equation fund, if enough. I'm going to see it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Yes, one of the ways that has been used to get funding for rural society is through the local congregations and it has been useful to small, self-sustaining communities. But, in the same way, corporations like Reykjavík are paying a lot of money with the fund. It is fun to remember Reykjavík's policy with the fund or with the state and to demand about 8.7 billion because the city has not received contributions from the fund, e.g. Because of operating basic schools or contributions for newcomers, to teach children from foreign backgrounds how to adapt to our community. That's for sure. It is quite remarkable to see how this fund is financed. This depends on what the state earns, sometimes less, sometimes more. Hv. paritaprevir Stefánsson's Vagn did not mention it here long ago. In order to provide the services that they truly must perform by law, they would have to know what they are able to do. And I'm asking why. Senator: Isn't it injustice to be starving to one community that puts it down to a substantial amount of money? Would it not be proper to change this arrangement in some way to see that it was more regular and regular income, and then rural areas could figure out what they would get for themselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Mr. Einarsson's God for that question, and I agree. It is very special that projects that are transferred to the rural communities and are legal are funded with the financial resources involved in the economy. Although economic growth is less than it was, there is no way to avoid performing a legitimate service. The community is in a position quite different from the state's funds when it comes to taking part in the economy because the state is an economist, the communities are not. The state can borrow favorable interest, is in much, what should I say, a more specific position to use itself in such a situation than the rurals are. There's nothing to talk about in this financial program. But I'd like to mention it as well. A senator was discussing the situation in Reykjavík. It is very special that we here have a government that repeatedly talks about the status of children, and there are no more children in Iceland who have a foreign background and need help to make a better impression on the education system, to prevent discrimination, to support the success of these children, than in Reykjavík. Out of an obsolete financial system associated with an equation fund and a model set to zero in its time, there is no money available to Reykjavík for Icelandic. It's just very unnatural in this context, and what's more unnatural is that once again the government fund is exasperating the rural, rural level, somehow against each other. Now, the rest of the community is afraid that if the smoke - resistant children who need this help are helped, somebody else will lose, instead of just picking up their rights for state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u61	A respectable president. I had a conversation with a government official not long ago who had found it in his time to work with a budget for the European Union. He said it was a very difficult and complicated matter because when the matter came to the council, it came into the hands of politicians who had nothing to do with their income - side but simply talked about their expenses. The European Union's budget is merely a matter of spending and distribution of expenses. This conversation came to my mind when I listened to it. A senator who simply cannot find the matter in a financial program that does not need to spend more money on. It wasn't the same where they carried it. There is always no turning away from disabled persons to children of foreign origin here in Reykjavíkurburg - it is all a rejection that turns to Reykjavík; people do not see that rural society has any role in securing an apartment supply. It's health, it's social, it's housing. There are other projects, nurse's building. How many billion sees what's happening. A senator has suggested that we add less than 130 billion dollars to the public budget? I hope that someone will only wake up in the discussion today and notice that we have a further hundred billion people in a corner. We have a leaning to support public service, to continue to do well in public service. We are outstanding in many areas. We provide good health care. We have a network of social security systems, better than any other site. Would we like to do more? Yeah, yeah. But it doesn't mean anything to come up here at the council Hall and say, "I'm a social worker, I'm a housing developer, and then I say in the word that people are economic stability. There has to be some context in things. We can also make it a way to just submit a budget plan, as is done in the European Union. Here's the state fund budget plan, so just forget about the income side and the goods.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u62	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer, just wondering what the ultimate thing is. The government was then declaring in a government covenant. If the highest. The secretary of finance feels so badly about all these expenses, so why was it not just stated in a government contract that all of this should be done? I simply quote promises that regularly fall into this hall and do not go through a financial program. You can't go to elections as matchmakers and behave so differently a few weeks later. You're also asking about the nature of the fees, and this is what I know at the highest. Secretary of finance is fully aware. A third of the government expenses is pay. We agreed to the Christmas allowances, I think, up to 15 billion bucks. due to growth improvements, as inflation has begun. The Company, my unit, here represents expenses that prevent this inflation circuit. We understand the importance of an active welfare government, which involves the government working with the labour market and professional drivers to prevent things from running off like this. This has been understood by the Norwegian welfare countries around us, but it does not work well in real life because one thing is said on the surface and another aktuel done in the Ministry of finance, which is because there is not an understanding of real welfare. We've talked here about the health system. In my earlier talk, I quoted a talk about 9 billion years ago. The benefits that come from making better use of the options. It takes investing in a new system. It is not only possible to inherit an old welfare system that has been down for many years and that it can be updated without a single account of a number of years. They're calling for the cut-offs that were under attack here after a collapse that reduced our carts so that we can reduce the cost later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u63	A respectable president. The government is here introducing the budget of the year 2023 families2027. The red thread is this: brighter economic standards, much better supplies and better and more efficient services. Government activities have been successful in times of trial. Although the government's financial burden had to endure a severe blow in Covid-19 times, a solid foundation has been built here on the land. The first financial scheme of this terms is based on that basis, which contained a clear vision of the government of economic progress and a powerful source of valuables in progressive, competitive and sustainable society. While there are many criticisms within the council, from time to time it is good to pause and realize that the government has done very well in difficult situations, in my opinion. Now the project is to achieve the economy, the state's wealth, and the domestic financial situation back in the same direction as before the epidemic. We are well on our way to that goal. When it is completed, we will do even more and ensure increased prosperity within the community. The Kingdom set out over 280 billion dollars. between 2020 and 22022. The intense injection of the official in the job world was the key to continuing production and services in this country. She maintained a spark of life in Icelandic commercial life and prepared for future life. Various activities, such as starting work, closing strength, and standing - up levels, have brought good results. The result is reflected in the strong position of Icelandic homes and businesses. Unemployment rate is dropping rapidly. In January 2021, unemployment was highest, about 11.6%. Since then, it has declined rapidly and is now 5.2%. It's a success we must not forget, but unemployment is now in places similar to the epidemic. The current estimate is that unemployment declines even faster than previously thought and falls by 4% during the financial era. In addition, recession in the economy has been lower than originally anticipated. The same can be said of the financial status of the households and of many companies. The wealth of households has never been greater and has grown more than expected, as there has been no increase in bankruptcy to the extent to which the original picture could be expected. Then, there has been no increase in the overall population of the public debt. That is a good knowledge, and it gives us a strong foundation for the next year. Aggressive prices have increased here in countries that need to be addressed. Vasculitis is 5.7% measured today. It's less in this country than in many comparative countries. For example, in the European Union, inflation is now measuring 6.6%. Inflation is expected to begin to decrease by responsible economic management, money, and employment markets, but the policy presented in the government budget contributes to that. Lately a lot of talk has been made about prospects of inflation and has been called upon for its specific actions. This needs to be examined in the circumstances of inflation. Such actions are not always effective. It is more likely to have a positive economic and social impact. At times, such actions can lead to distorted effects. We do not want that. Experts have suggested that specific measures be taken to help homes deal with high inflation require that they focus on a limited number of people and be funded by taxes or the priorities of spending. Otherwise, such measures may increase the rate of inflation and lead to higher growth. The fact is that high prices abroad have a significant impact on inflation in this country. No domestic measures prevent foreign prices. However, domestic inflation pressure is stronger than inflation pressure and has been for a long time. It's the factor that's been driving the inflation over the last 12 months. All the world's countries face inflation today, which is understandable under the circumstances of the past few years. No state could overlook the epidemic, and everyone had to act. Iceland was no exception, as we know. In the Western world, inflation is high, which is certainly a result of the urgent response of the economic regime to the pandemic, with the aim of maintaining the cost of households and the spark of employment. In this country, the government decided to take extensive measures based on the seriousness of the epidemic. In the big picture, the decision was to do more than less. Most of them agreed that the official route was that, but here at the council, it was largely suggested that men go even further. Based on the results and future predictions, it is my opinion that the decision was correct. Economic life has been taking on a faster pace than originally expected, but its inevitable cohesion is rising inflation. To overcome it, one thing simply has to do with reducing general support for the economy and restoring the money policy and the government policy back to the same rhythm. But our outlook is positive, and in such circumstances we can look back and learn from the consequences of the epidemic. The first thing we need is this: The greatest economic effort in history because of the pandemic was based on a strong state of state funds and yielded unsatisfactory results. Similarly, there is a need for a system change aimed at reducing fluctuations and improving the flexibility and development of society towards them. This is not the first time that the economy will have fluctuations, and it probably will not be the last. We need to ensure the strong foundation of the homes, which ensures a balance during a time of swing rather than be forced to take on special measures every time such flashes are possible. The government has already taken such measures, and I rejoice in her vision of the future. This does not mean, however, that when circumstances require it, there is no need to attack specific measures. For example, Europe's continental development of sexual and transport costs has increased considerably as a result of the invasion of Russia in Ukraine and the economic activity of the West as a result. These are examples of situations requiring specific measures but blessed, the effects in this country have been minor in comparison with other European countries. Based on the standard index price, increases in energy and oil prices have increased home spending by 1.2% in the last 12 months. At the same time, in contrast with the developments that take place abroad, the economic situation of the households is still strong and buyable. Remuneration has increased rapidly over the past few years, and it is important that no one be left behind in this trend. That would bring permanent consequences. Already, changes in the tax system have been made to reduce tax and tax taxes on the most treatable income. The role of the tax system has been further strengthened in support of the most efficient groups, as well as the community's payment of social security benefits. This is part of an action under which the government has taken to enhance the future value of its households so that specific measures will be reduced in the coming years if the economic system is to swing. It has also been said that government action is expanding. I answer yes to those voices. The operation was intended to be a fanny. The goals were an increase in money, unemployment, and employment prospects. This has been achieved faster than expected. We reach our goals, and we need to continue on our market course and see in the currently established financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u64	A respectable president. I want to look at health issues. There are tremendous challenges that we face. If we just take the hospital service, the trend there has been in the last government that the number of sick patients has decreased dramatically compared with the population as soon as the nation continues to age and there has been over 100% in hospitals. As a result, vast numbers of people at any given time with health and skills are stuck in the Land Hospital, a high-tech hospital. What about the hospital in Akureyri? Yes, it is, in the face of massive management and funding, which has to be shut down in child-adolescents for five weeks during the summer season this summer. It has been necessary to close the psychiatric and day - to - day walk department and to reduce the activities of the public walk department and the operating room more than has been done before. It's all there is to it. What's the government's reaction? How will they respond to these huge challenges? [[The president calls.]] In this financial programme, costs for hospital services in Iceland are expected to increase by only 2 billion a year. [[The president calls.]] Anyone who's been watching the budget and health care knows it's not in the nose of a cat. [[The president calls.]] Is the advance party proud of these plans?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u65	I don't know. Congress officials say the talk period is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson is very much concerned with the question of whether we are proud of our health care program, with the candidates. My answer is that we are proud of our health care in Iceland. I think we're all supposed to be proud of our health care in Iceland, which is one of the best things that happen in the world. Can we do better? Yes, we can, obviously, do better. And do we want to do better? Yeah, we want to do better. This is all the rights the senator spoke of earlier, these institutions he listed, whether it is the land hospital or the Hospital in Akureyri, or all the many medical institutions around the country. We must strengthen and strengthen them. They must be able to fulfill their assigned role.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u67	Then you have to put money in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u68	Yeah, that's right. They need funding. [[For example, consider: Do you support us in it?]] I support all practical suggestions for promoting the health system in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u69	A respectable president. I'm even going to try to return the seconds I robbed here. It's a pleasure to hear what you're hearing. A member of the Parliament describes the support of increased medical expenses. I think that he and others must realize that what is put in place in this financial program is not in any accordance with the declarations of government officials, with the Government Convention, with the promises made, to voters in the process of elections. It must be clear to everyone. If we are going to face these challenges, if we are going to shorten the children's waiting list for needed service, and if we are going to solve the hospital problems, we simply need to put a lot more money into that system. It's just that way. It's a pleasure to have a pleasant evening. A senator agrees with me and will support such measures and such adjustments in this financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. So that's totally clear, what I said before I think we need to support these medical institutions, whether they're in the capital area or in the country. Does it need extra funding? I think it's clear to everyone that we need extra funding. I don't think there's any man in this room who doesn't think there's any more money and couldn't be used any more money in the health system. The question, however, is where to take it. That's what it's all about. Where are we going to get it? Why are we going to cut or increase our debt? I guess that's what I'm gonna do. But I think we agree absolutely, me and the senator, that we both have the health system's best interests at heart in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u71	President. Hv. A senator asks: " Where else is this to be cut down? ' But there's clearly been a cut down on health care because we know that, the report we received in our hands briefly, which, for example, tells us. The land hospital and the overall health system have been telling us for many years. If the situation is the way it is installed, it will mean an increase of 9 billion because of the number of jobs and spaces needed because appropriate counter measures are not taken. It is the cost, the cost of growing, not going to the procedures that are pointed out to be unnecessary. This financial plan provides exactly the scene that makes up the problem that is being pointed out. Creates the health - system problem that has been pointed out for many years. [[The president calls.]] And already it is. A senator asks: " Where else are we to cut down? ' [[The president calls.]] I would at least say it wasn't in the medical system. [[The president calls.]] Do we not first need to finance this basic service and ask ourselves, " How can I finance it before trying to cut down on health care? '
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u72	The president reminds members that when four responds, the speech period is one minute in answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u73	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The young lady Leví Gunnarsson's son is very grateful for the question. I agree, and I've held the opinion for a very long time and almost always that health matters are supposed to be top priority and that there should not be any other law that I know about government business or just the business of our home. If we suffer from sickness or hardship because of illness in our home, we will always set priorities for them because that is what matters most to us, our health. [[The president calls.]] I completely agree with that. It is the priority and should be the priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u74	President. House, roof over head and health. There is not much else people need to have the foundation. As for the financial programs that are being published here, we get the message from a financial committee that it's simply said no, e.g. Requesting bail on the construction of a nursing facility. Because of other homes, I wondered what the goal is. We know what the shortage is, but nothing is like the lack of housing markets, the housing problem in Iceland, nothing. So you wonder, " Where is the campaign that the inside minister wanted so much to get into? ' Even though it was. A member of the U.S. government policy recently promised that it would be a government policy on the demand side of the housing market that created the inflation that we now have in the most part of our lives. [[The president calls.]] It is simply a mismanagement that was repeatedly identified. [[The president calls.]] What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn's wife, Gunnarsson, is a great man for the inquiry and the answer. We are now sitting on a budget committee, where we have discussed the mortgage and this housing situation considerably. I think it's very good for us to continue that conversation. It is important to try to find ways to handle your housing issues and even if we can discern the ways and trends in it, I don't think we should give up trying to dissuade ourselves from some reasonable conclusion in this matter. At any rate, I know what the situation is like near where I live, the place where I live. The situation is that it has never been built more than in recent years. The problem is that rural society has failed to comply with this trend. I'm not saying it's everywhere, but I can just stand here and admit that it's our fault there. [[The president calls.]] But I think it's important for a financial committee to take this discussion and, in fact, the rest of a financial program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Stefán the son of Vagn's Stefánsson for his career. I wanted to cast the position in the world economy because of it. A senator has earlier discussed the scene, as well as others in his category, to form farmers for consequences. People are aware that this is a very special time period. The rise in prices goes down in certain groups. I think there's a lot of people that can support that presentation. Well, then guess what. A senator agreed with the premise that this is, of course, the case with another community crisis of income? They're about to get caught in these raw-profile increases, affecting prices to their needs. Is the parishion Party's plea for support for farmers, who are certainly also often under the income, not also evidence of their possible support of specific action in the country's less productive home during such times?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u77	A respectable president. I just want to thank you. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's great deal for this question because it's just what we've been talking about in our midst. These increases that are occurring now, including and because of the rise in construction costs, structural materials, we will face serious problems during the next few years, raising the price of apartments even more. We are seeing increases in fuel prices that will affect agriculture, influence the seas and the various local sectors outside of the country, have a tremendous negative impact on Icelandic homes. I just say it right here and now, if the situation is in such a way, I think it's a good idea to discuss specific measures because of the situation that exists right now. [[The president calls.]] I wouldn't rule it out, not at all, and would celebrate such a discussion in an effort to find out which way we can do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u78	Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now, the progress of these elections in many ways, as the candidates have claimed, and in this respect, that it is really possible to agree in some way with the proposals that have been presented here to help the revenue crisis of the situation, and to form the position of the head of the forward movement on housing, which, however, are not financed in this financial program, I wondered if the team had become dependent on this government community. I have a feeling that there are members of the government and the government who support proposals to aid the threat of income. Then I want to direct that question straight to the point. A senator: What do you think? A senator of the highest degree of his housing. Ministers are not financed in this financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir for the counter, and to begin by thanking her very much for describing the forward party as the winner of the last election here in this chair, that has not been done before, thank you very much for that. But I only agree with the concerns that have been presented here on the premises. This is a group of subjects, and it is a task that makes it impossible for us to shrink back from the task of trying to find ways and how we can meet the present situation. In terms of this not being financed in this financial program, we'll just have to work together on one thing about how this is financed in the next one. But we need to find some ways. [[The president calls.]] We need to work out the options together to try to meet this situation that is in the housing market today, and I think we should do it at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u80	A respectable president. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of raises and money gains, and he seemed irreverently pleased with the way he has done so. I ask if he is pleased with how it has been achieved by the more successful, our pay grade and higher, or if he is also saying that there is an overexploitably high - paying power and how he gets it to increase the benefit of the social security system, it will be available to buy power when depositing a 4.6% increase in almost 7% of inflation. How does he see that this group will receive financial gain for the next four years, with an increase of 2.5%? Has the inflation ever been for four years continuously below 2.5%? Does he see that this group is being given an increase in power?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u81	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson's heart for this. What I was referring to in my speech, and a senator asks what I was talking about, I'm simply talking about the enormous fact that the power of money has rarely been or never been better in Iceland in general. This shows us and these statistics. But I'm not minimizing it, and I understand which way to go. A senator will come when he is speaking of the group he has spoken to. I realize that that that group is not too happy about its terms, and it must be the goal of all of us to improve the situation in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Unfortunately, this government is beginning its later period, and before the first period, it was said that this group could no longer wait for justice, but I see that he is supposed to wait until the complete period of life of that government. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Does he feel normal to be talking about commercial power and averages when we know that there is a large group underneath that is not available? We know it's a big group. There are 6,000 children living in poverty, and we know that there is almost another so large on the line to fall into poverty. It's been like this in the lifetime of this government. I ask: Is it normal for him to bring up a financial program that is not in any way capable of making the slightest effort to correct this which has been promised over and over again before elections?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson's heart for this. Do I find it normal to talk about buying power and averages? When appropriate, it can be perfectly normal to talk about buying power and averages, and it can give us an excellent perspective on the overall situation, how it works, how it works, how it works, how it buys power and averages. I think it's normal and good that it should be shown in this discussion, because this has just been about specific actions and I'm following specific actions against the most critical groups, that I think it is very important and much more important to take action which is directed to the groups that most need them rather than in general action. [[The president calls.]] I think that's the big movie. Let's see if we can find out where these groups are, and I know they've already been.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u84	A respectable president. We are here discussing the government's financial program, this donut, nearly 500 pages, if expectations arise. Unfortunately, I have to say just as they expect to be very disappointing for the group that needs most of all to know is that something is being done for him. At the top of the woods, I'm afraid. In this book, I spoke of the amazing fact that microfowl are to be raised for the next four years by 2.5%. He blamed it on the Habitat. That would just mean. But it's just not the right average and it's never been right. It sucks to know that the fact is that we're creating financial programs that are supposed to be taking over the entire system, but there's nowhere to find a letter about it in this financial program, I'll be corrected if anyone knows better, how to deal with and eliminate poverty over the next four years, and how to deal with the quality of the health system. According to the budget, the first step will be taken immediately next year toward a new and more reasonable system of 430 billion. K. a donation that will be devoted to a number of projects that will contribute to a more varied tool for people with less ability. Four hundred and thirty million. That's all. Two weeks ago, the Bank Office sold 22.5% shares in Iceland Bank at 2.5 billion dollars. There is no more money in reevaluating the social security system than 430 million, which is small, deep below what has been promised and promised by the last government, i.e. ... justtakethesystem and fix it. I just ask, what kind of priorities is that? Yes, that is exactly the priorities that this government is so proud of in this financial program. Now it is seen that the pensions of social security need to be substantially increased for the next year to prevent the presumption of inflation that is measured today by 6.7%. On the contrary, it cannot be seen that money is available for this increase in financial planning. The priorities of the budget are that in the following year the inflation will be 3.5% and 2.5%, respectively, in 2024. I'm sure it's been planned with sunglasses. I allow me to doubt that these factors are held, especially in view of the fact that war is now raging in Ukraine, and its consequences are uncertain. At that time, housing prices at the highest and do not provide the end of this trend by increasing housing prices and lack of weights are also in the capital area. I'm worried that the basis for this plan will not be held. If that happens, the government will need to reexamine financial programs. Then I'm afraid there will be surgery. The government's debate over the past few weeks on the planned revision of the social security system has indicated that instead of correcting the human experience, it needs to revise the system to make it easier to kick people out of it. I'm afraid that the government will provide a work assessment and that disability is going to have to fight for continued pensions. I fear that disability will be forced into the labour market by threatening otherwise improvement. This fear grows as I read chapter 27 of the financial program. An increase of 2.5% for the next four years is expected only. This is neither in financial development nor in population development. If this is the case, it is being proclaimed that the government wants to reduce the number of those entitled to disability. In addition, the government's target is to reduce the incidence of disability. This goal is thoughtless. Increasing disability over the last few decades is not because people are cheating on the system. This is because mental awakening has occurred to a number of diseases, especially mental illness. Our spiritual awakening is good, and it is good that we are going to help people who have a serious mental disorder. But we often forget about this system, which is the so - called micropower transfer system. With one hand, the government is refusing action. Thousands of children are on a waiting list for ADHD diagnosis or other analyses for study and future education. By denying these children the immediate service they are to receive, they are put on a waiting list for as long as months and years, the government is producing in an assembly of microbubbles with one hand. Then they come and say, " The number of the microorganisms is growing too much, and we need to reduce them with our right hand. ' I think those in the government need to look in the mirror and realize that the solution is with them. The solution is to treat people in a way that is not unnecessaryly sent into disability. So I refer to the Fatherhouses that the long - term goal should be to reduce the incidence of disability. The aim should be to promote health care, to work on waiting lists, to reduce the number of accidents, to promote mental health. That's the right way. Instead, to fix the problem on the wrong end is to blame for the problem for microorganisms. This government has indeed found wide banks, it has found large banks in this social security system. This wide book has had to fight for decades. These people have come close to 50% of their numbers. In human language, it means that a large group of social security workers are in poverty and in poor condition, but would likely not be if it had been seen to correct the problem. Everybody's promised, but nobody's doing anything. There's an increase in the build-up of your skin. Of course, in this context, it is remarkable to witness at the same time that this dresslining is in the social security system, which makes it never higher in public insurance patients as much as inflation is, or beyond, and therefore there will be no greater and greater buypower and the more blundering. But what will the government do about it? Yeah, they're gonna hold 2.5%, so it's gonna be a lot bigger for the next four years. And they're going to add. Now they have a bill in their consultations advising to include the pension fund into this system, to calculate the insurance market once a year. And why? Yes, because it is so difficult for a insurance agency to calculate this every month to get the right conclusion so that it doesn't have to be paying back some and cutting some people down once a year. I don't know if a insurance agency is so incompetent, that they might have a string of pencils and pencils. But all I can imagine is that they have computers, and if their pensions can calculate it every month, the insurance agency can calculate it every month, and they are not supposed to require social security employees to try to calculate the inflation every month. If the government can't, how in the world would ordinary people in the social security system be able to do that? And to blame it and try to use it as an excuse to make even more of a fool's face sucks. Therefore, I say that the fact is in question, unfortunately, that this financial plan is, as I said in the beginning, fiction. There are no facts because no matter what you look at, whatever the case, there is never enough money to be able to keep up with what you're supposed to do. There's only one number made, 2.5% increase. Everything should remain as it has always been so far. The rich become richer, the poor become poorer. It's policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u85	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his fine speech. Of course, there are many things to consider. Hv. A senator spoke a little about the social security system, and it is certainly a shocking fact that in spite of the government's promise of a different government, it will not be seen according to this financial programme that there is a right to increase people's rights when it comes to paying public security during the election period. We can't see. It is primarily just a systematic growth expected in expenses for these classes. So if I am here, I will be on page 20. 99, considering the NPA agreements, contributions from NAPA agreements should be increased permanently by 320 million. K. from 223 to support the current treaties. This is as good as I can see, but it's only to deliver the current agreements, not to increase the number of contracts. At the same time, it is a government that beat itself and made great proclamations that at last the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disappointments. I don't know when it's going to happen or how it's going to be followed in this terms period, but I wonder if there's any plan to follow up on that perhaps in the last year's election season, and then the next government can take care of it. But I may just want to direct that question to why. A senator who has closely followed the development of the social security system and its expenditures, how he feels about these financial programmes and these topic areas, considering the statements made in the campaign on the part of those who are now members of the Commission and ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson for the inquiry, starting with NPA, is one of the tragic issues that have not gone just as promised. I'm sorry, but if this becomes the fact that they're just going to keep their money private in order to maintain what is right now, I'm just saying, "Guð will help those out there and really need NPA services." We've observed how the government has simply denied the people of NPA services and has actually moved their lives to a nursing home where they have nothing to do with them. And if this is the fact of a financial program, to remain totally unchanged, then it is also a fact that some of these things will be taken up in the future. Of course, that's one of the scariest things to be dealt with because there's going to be a lot more trouble with, disabled people, whose only hope for independent life is that they will be greatly improved in the NA service. I say for my part: If you can give billions of discounts from a bank sale, if you can give off the bounty for fishing, if you can support the private media and all kinds of pet projects, put 12 billion in samples for virus, why can't you help these people? As we often see, these numbers are not that large, and they often separate themselves from the ones in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u87	Madam President. I talked about how the hospital's experience has decreased compared with the number of patients in recent years. And then, of course, it's the design, it's a classic problem. There are a lot of statements in the government's health policy that will address these issues, but this is all a cost of money. It is important for health care to set priorities and to provide services at the right level of service, etc., but it also costs money to do things properly, e.g. to strengthen a man's hand. Serving in a health - care facility in Iceland requires that you make it more desirable. Another thing I'd like to draw attention to is the waiting list, which is now much spoken of here in the chamber. In December, 738 children waited for analysis at the Development and Behavioral Station, a mean waiting time of 12 in ◯14 months. 326 children currently on a waiting list in December at the Advisory and Analysis Centre. This is something that children's agent has specifically criticized. These are huge challenges, and it takes money to deal with them. Therefore, it is too disappointing to see in this financial program that there is expected to be real interest in hospital services, such as. That's only 2 billion a year. I want to ask you why. A senator how he thinks it's really going to happen in this terms period if he's going to make such an enormous investment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. If we start at cost, how much is it necessary to have an individual on disability? This requires that he receive payment every month. But how much it takes to say to that person: Go out and find a suitable job if you want to, you can work, just say two years. That's when tax returns. It doesn't cost a debt but just the opposite. Strangely, though, we are also talking about the cost of children's waiting list for action. It's not cost. If we're not going to address the problems of these thousands of children who are on a waiting list, how many children of them could end up as cripples? There's a lot to tell you that if you can put one dollar in a system like this, you'll get a minimum of 10 back. You won't get them right away, but it will eventually come back because it will show up in a way that doesn't get in the system; it doesn't need as much health care as it needs to be and that it will become a working subject. But as I've always said and will always say, one child waits is too much. It shames this government to be ashamed of how it has dealt with people and especially in the context of the situation when people are in poverty year after year with children, and there is nothing they do, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u89	President. I think it's the thickest financial plan I've ever seen so far, but at the same time the most important. First, I want to explain to people what a financial plan is because it seems that the government doesn't understand them. We have a law on public financial matters that explains how the financial process is, how we should conduct it in an organized manner. Governments actually work out their campaign plans and, on the other hand, from long - term economic outlooks, a report published every few years. From these facts on evolution to the next decades, e.g. Three decades, and from the promises made by the government, a plan is made for the next five years, a financial plan. It contains government policy on how to fix the others and these problems in our community. How do we deal with our housing problem? How does the health - care system deal with the problem? How do you deal with the problems in your social security system? These are the problems we know absolutely there are. There is an analysis of this, e.g. with the market, 1,000 apartments are missing in a building of the whole country in addition to what is now. If the State is going to be involved in a building on all those apartments, that will cost about 7 billion in stocks. However, during the time of the government, or actually since 2016, there have been 12 billion decrease in that topic area, in the housing market. What's remarkable is that in this document, there are usually goals and standards in every subject, except for housing and planning. It describes the availability of safe housing, etc. but there is no discussion of standards, i.e. what the government's success is going to achieve. That's what's supposed to be in a financial program. Government policy should be established there and the result of this policy, especially in the case of the same situation. But there's nothing to be found here because, as shown in the case of each. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter, this is a extrapolation. It's an empty policy. There's no policy in this program. I believe that this financial program is really a lie, since it was submitted, it has been found that some necessary projects are not financed. The practices promised in a government contract are not financed. As a result, the State's debt status as set out in this program is just not correct because it will be carried out on these projects. There is a lack of nursing homes, although there is also a need to improve home service. You need to do both. We heard on the budget about the nursing homes to be built here in the coming years, in the time of this financial program, that it has simply not obtained a means to build them, the nursing homes to go to after 2024. The coin does not exist here, which means the inevitable means that there is an extra deposit to be obtained and it affects the survival of the state. This means that the result of the State, in view of what is being done today, will be worse than it was said in this financial program. We are simply being deceived. They're setting up a financial program in that it looks really good, that it gets better, better, and better, and about to zero. But behind it there's a lot of action that we know has to invest in. It's a classic way of putting money in such a beautiful way through the council, because predictions repeatedly occur, especially about economic growth, vanity, and economic growth, or income, will actually increase. This can be added later without looking bad. If there's an extra coin, it's a coin we use to build a nursing home, and the rest will be exactly the same after all. But the problem with that is that it's a poor plan. We need to see governments, its policies, its financial plans, and its costs, and we need to see benefits from it. - It's way too short. It says in a financial programme, with permission, a dignified president: ▪ In recent years, efforts have been made to improve housing conditions. Of the 44 activities proposed by the branch staff in 2019, 27 will have been completed and 15 actions are being performed. Then I'd like to ask, " Then why have things gotten worse? ' Is that because of the operation? Who knows? At any rate, I know that the actions of the past few years, which have put almost exclusively on the demand side, not on the forward side of the housing market, have stirred up the prices and need of people to borrow more money and create inflation, increase in living prices, very simple. It's a challenge to take care of the environment. It is one of the biggest projects of our Common Era, which are being reduced to about half a billion in this period. I wondered, " How will the government's goals be achieved by 55% reduction in emissions? ' I have no idea when I read this financial program. There's nothing explained. This is to be a government policy, which explains how they will achieve their goals. Nothing. Transport. There is no warrant for hasty charges to come up to finance the city line. There's nothing about it. I don't know what's going to happen to that financing. Health issues are a huge group of cases that are sinful to have less than two minutes to talk about, for there are so many other things to talk about here. The problem is, if we take the construction of the New Land Hospital, there's an increase in the medical resources to the medical system by 2% a year or so. It's like we've said, there's a 1.5% real-growing, and then there's about 800 million in some cash range that are the others and these projects to make up for the rest and that. The problem is, it takes 2% just to cover the real growth. It is the aging of a nation. It is the foundation that needs to be started, so the health system is still being starving, over and over. The planned completion of the new Hospital was 2025, but now it is at the end of 2026, perhaps 2027. There is an increase in costs from a delay. Social security, transportation, financial independence ministers, criminal stigma. It's like I'm saying, the biggest financial plan, the thickest financial plan I've ever seen, and the most important thing I've ever seen. I don't think things are going in the right direction with regard to financial planning and what its purpose is to be. I see, for example. no diplomats are willing to arrange a discussion with the government. Yes, they have some speeches, but they are not making a reply and asking further questions about the criticism of government opposition. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is here after his testimony, confronts the first speaker, and then disappears from the hall. There are more views than the first speaker had to offer. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson was e.g. with very important perspectives. I would like to review your social security, since the year's massive inflation is in 5.9%, which is well beyond the estimated 3.3% this year. It will have tremendous influence, even bombing the government's financial policy. [[The president calls.]] That's the situation we're in, and the answers aren't to be found here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u90	A respectable president. In the Treaty of this government now situated there is a chapter on economic and government matters. I am now one of the new members of the council who has taken a seat on a financial committee that is learning. The one who spoke here, my ass. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, a probationary ball in the commission work, may know what has been going on over there. The Treaty speaks of the government's priority in promoting economic and social stability during the terms of the election. Then it says: The Commission will contribute to the environment of low growth, moderate inflation, and good cooperation with the labour market partners in order to contribute to the necessary interaction of these factors. It's a bit hard for me to understand this, what methods are being used to this in this social stability when we see the transfer systems starving. There is little consultation with the labor movement in terms of collective agreements. We have continued to see the inflation rate and growth so that I cannot completely grasp it in the Treaty, that it should continue to contribute to the so - called economic stability or social stability that I have never really experienced as a member of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u91	President. It's one of the most simple politics the government has ever established, i.e. To say a lot of beautiful words, do that and this, put a coin here, put a little law there, but when it comes out of the barrel, there's nothing to say. There is no result. Laws don't work. They are not being followed, and we end up in your saying, he says, in some race for what is really true. It's a bit rough when the judges come up here and tell us how awesome all of the government's actions during the last term for Covid, etc. there were and there were few failures and so forth, while there were all caution signs, e.g. Because of the inflation, we're on our way. The domestic market is in worse condition today than it was before all these rejuvening operations. There is still a problem with the health system at the top of the pressures Covid caused. Where is the plan to react to the pressures caused by Covid? Nowhere. Nothing. What are the responses to the shrinkage of those who are on social security? Nowhere to find in this program. Why, in spite of the combined need for maintenance to reach 80 to 85 billion in the transport system, is there a total of 7 billion budgets being drawn together? No idea. It is as if they did not realize that some areas of life need to invest in order to produce results. Even if that is the case, there is a single cost at some point, it is greatly improved in the long run by something that we need to attend. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. I would also like to ask him what he mentioned earlier about the lack of funding for the building of nursing homes after 2024. We were allowed to experience yesterday's Committee, in a conversation with the Ministry of Health, that was the case with the knots. You wonder, " How can this be? ' We know that one nursing home may hold over some 50 to 1,100 persons, and it may cost some 5 billion in structure, 2.5,5 billion depending on their size. If nothing is to be built for three years, 2025, 2026, 2027, what will be the situation? Like what? A senator might say that we have to invest today, or he will bite our tail. This is not part of a financial program. It has also been called a national stadium, and when it was informed that he is not part of the program, it all went down in the community. V.E.G. The minister of education and child care said something about us not to read too much. But you ask, "What are we planning for? I have learned that plans are to try to recognize future positions and to shape their work methods accordingly. But I'm not seeing it. It's been said that the national stadium, handball and soccer palace, costs 6 to 8 billion, and so the soccer field itself can be carried out at 15 billion all the way. So it's just that the debt status that will be at the end of the season is not correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u93	A respectable president. I get that feeling, and I've often got that feeling, but especially now with this financial plan, it's simply a question of how the recovery must be to turn over a lean business in 2027. Everything else goes away. If national stadiums or nursing homes need to be thrown away so that financial resources fit within the bounds to achieve this goal, they are. In spite of the fact that we all know that these buildings, projects, and antiquities, are needed if there is any money at the time, it is added without any influence on the debt level, but only if it does not affect the debt. It is simply dishonest, not too complicated. So I am deeply surprised when a Minister responsible for a certain law that I am responsible for - it is a certain cost of legalization, we get an analysis of what a law-employment costs and the like - comes to us and says: I'm going to enforce this law that I'm responsible for, even personally with the Minister's responsibility, and I believe it costs this much money, it's not the World Council that says: No, you get less money in it, but it's the Ministry of finance that's what it does. What authority does the Ministry of finance have to do with this? The financier isn't at the Ministry of Economics, it's here at the General. The minister should bring in the amount he believes he will need to carry out his duties, within the Commission, under the law and at the Council to determine how the priorities are adapted to the economic situation in general. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we get advice on this from the Ministry of finance on how to raise sources and such, earn money for that too. [[The president calls.]] It is a key element that is totally ignored in this financial program. [[The president calls.]] There is no thought here about earning income, so the goal is to reduce taxes, which is inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u94	President. The financial agenda discussed here gives us reason for looking to the future with confidence, for example, at some favorable signs and prospects. The plan supports in many ways the prosperity that has been established in Iceland in recent years despite the economic hardships of the pandemic. Among these are increased government support for science and innovation. During the recent term, support for innovation was increased, and the results are measurable, and Iceland takes its place among the nations in view of innovation. Less than 14 billion dollars were spent in the seminary. in 2017, with some 29 billion in budgets of 2022, it is estimated that they will continue to grow in the duration of this program and will be about 2022. 32 billion in five years, and we're talking about less than 150 billion in the season. It is also important to make arrangements to face temporary increases in the pandemic, but contributions were greatly increased by temporary arrangements with the aim of creating jobs. Thus, this financial scheme is based on a good foundation in that subject. It will continue to be stated that this is a scientific work on a global scale, that the knowledge, intelligence, and innovations on this land continue to meet the future needs in various fields. It is important to continue to support basic research and to maintain financial support for research work throughout the country, but a wide variety of research is being carried out in all national corners and is important to continue to support such development. The scene of our rural society is critical to the major challenges they face. In many parts of the earth, the population is dwindling, the composition of the inhabitants supports them. Job's life is simple in many parts of the world, and it stands at the left. A key factor in the development we want to see for the next year is that jobs are moving abroad to a greater extent. The global epidemic showed us how many jobs can be done without a location. It is a good thing for young people to move to the stillness of the country, where both the practicality and availability of services, such as gymnasium, are in better shape than in larger rural areas. But this depends on feeling secure, doing a variety of jobs, and having the resources needed to do it. The government's policy in rural development is about to build trust and promote rural development, contributes to their sustainability in terms of economic, social, and environmental issues. It is important to strengthen the strength and vitality of a rural society so that they can be financially independent and live up to their legal duties. This is what we've been talking about in a budget during the years I've been sitting there, and we're still not coming to a conclusion, but we're working on a stage model that shows how these communities need to look, and then there's an overall analysis of the regular work of equations, along with this reevaluation of the sector now in the water. That's exactly what we've been getting a presentation on the committee. Continued communication and digital development support, including to many other government projects and objectives, as there is a vast category of events in modern society. There's an important fiber - optic industry, but 12,000 homes are still free of fiber. From this we shall add. In view of the transport networks, a key safety factor will continue to be done on a regular basis for the submission and construction of messages supporting the 5G Farnet. We know that there are quite a few of the scattered places where dead points are found in some places. It is also worthy to promote the gender principles that such evolution supports that more varied jobs require a wide range of workers, thus supporting both the development and the objective of the government on social equality. A respectable president. Improved transport support both development and government climate targets. Shorter distances save emissions and bracing stations support energy exchange in automobile fleets. Last term, tens of millions of taxes were attacked by electric cars. It is not only to speed up energy exchanges and to promote government goals on noncarbonization in the year 2040, but the rate of newly registered cars fully supported by electricity is now less than 40%, with linking cars about 30% of that year. It is important to remember that driving is still increasing. Of these, large areas of employment are newly supported, while both fish farms and tourism increase traffic by a great deal. Thus, it is important to continue on this electronic road, while the benefits are high in view of the importance of transport emissions of greenhouse gases, about one third of the emissions from transport. Then we have the ships. But improved transportation is not just for the private car. This may give an eye to the route, but most of the urban traffic in this country is in the capital area, normal, but the national and local transport sectors in the capital area, the construction of the city line will enhance public transportation, which is as important as the improving quality of living conditions in the climate; less hovery and less traffic. Then, in particular, I would like to maintain goals for improving law enforcement services and the 200 million. K. which are expected to promote the investigation and prosecution of sexual crimes, in accordance with the importance of the government's treaties. As I said here at the outset, a financial program provides a basis for optimism, as indicated by this list, although only a fraction of an action reported and despite the debate between death and demon at the council today that follows this financial program in the opinion of the government at least I think it is important that we continue to grow out of the economic depression that followed the pandemic. In an article in the Morning newspaper, I recently said that it is inevitable that the debate over uncertainty is inevitable, realizing that there is always some tinge of air, the last few years of the epidemic, now as a result of the invasion of the Russian government in Ukraine and the war there. There have been some comments on the global economic efforts of this pandemic, even claiming that the state's funds have been back to the corner before it struck. All right. I'd like to answer that there was a strong position of government funds and a low debt rate that enabled us to engage in important measures due to the epidemic of authority. It is not necessarily to be expected to maintain a marvelous state of support for the economy for long periods of time, and it does not exist, measures due to the epidemic were always temporary. At that time, the branch office's wax gains have made good use of its first buyers, which are best seen in the number of sold apartments in recent years. I think it is important when measures due to inflation are called on that they have the desired effect, and do not cause further inflation or increase in growth. Special measures should be used to help those who have least benefited from the increase in housing prices. In this context, 500 million are being arranged for housing to be done on the worst market. A respectable president. We are always subjugated to outside influences. It's true that insurmounting abroad, e.g. Because of the war, inflation and prices of the country and anywhere else can be affected. The same is true of governments around the world, as has happened with Covid. The responsibility of the government of the State is to live in good stead when it comes to success and enter into it when it becomes necessary. That's what we did during our last term, and that's what we'll do during this coming terms. We're ready, we'll do it through tools like a financial plan. We try to hold firmly to those who need attention, and this has been done by various measures up to now, including those to whom we need help. in the welfare system where we have reduced payment, created a new income tax level. We've had extra payments on mortgages for renters, etc. A respectable president. I believe we are putting together a financial program supporting the continued work that was started here during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u95	A respectable president. Government contracts require the establishment of a new human rights institution. It is mentioned in the financial program for the year 2023How2027, which states that the Ministry of Presidency is about to establish a national human rights agency that meets the so - called Paris criteria. The existence of the human rights institution as this is necessary so that Iceland can meet international commitments to human rights and is essential for the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disregardable People. However, the government covenant also shows that there is no validation of the covenant. The role of the Agency is also involved. to have a broad authority to work on the promotion and protection of human rights. Then the public should be able to consult the Agency, and they should investigate the individual issues and help on the basis of events. The role of the Agency must be considered in the general or administrative laws and should have both financial and institutional independence. Based on information on the Management Board's website, a staff was set up as its role as an update to the ideas of an independent national rights agency. Then the government's consultations with a green book on human rights are about to begin. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister, what do you need to do in the setting of the human rights organization? What is the aim of the work group, and when is it scheduled to complete it? When is it estimated that a green book on human rights will be submitted? And finally: When is it scheduled to provide a bill for an independent national rights institution and to be sure of enough funding for the project?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-05-62.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. Isakssen For this good question, Ingelisssen. I've been quite interested in this case, trying to complete an independent human rights agency. It has been named as an important part of our ability to legalize, as it were. A senator named here, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People. However, when I sat down with this project, I saw that it was very important that we lay down in policy areas. A senator asks this question because we need to evaluate the status of human rights in Iceland. We need to gather more information about what the situation really is. It's basically the purpose of the green book, being a basis for policy development. We want to try to do this so that we are talking to the public in the country. We may not always be talking about human rights on a daily basis, but we present issues that are just human rights when better checked. The plan is that we will have the results of this work at the beginning of 1923 and that a bill will be submitted in the fall of 2023, which says the work in the green book is, in effect, the basis for the bill. Then we will hopefully go further in evaluating the costs of this human rights institution. It is natural, when the bill comes forward, to export, to form in form and in terms of size and controlal status. Then there will be ideas of financing. It's not in this financial program, just so it's completely honest here, but I assume that when the bill comes along, we'll also assume it in a financial programme, which is soon to be the second or the first.
