ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u1	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Do they want a vote for that President's proposal? They're called for votes. Then she offers along with a resounding bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u2	A respectable president. I'm a big fan of selling Iceland Bank. I thought it was important that the state did not have two of the three business banks in the country. That's why I've given it my full support. I felt overwhelmed by the initial invitation, when a large percentage of Icelanders had the opportunity to put their savings in an investment in an Iceland bank. I also think it's important for a stock market in Iceland that the public can invest in assets like Iceland banks. I'm in trouble now. The legal committee, therefore, received all the information and information that were sent to us on the second part. I must admit that I am frustrated when I read a list of people who have been bought in this process. I was in the meaning that we were primarily looking for large and powerful investors who were supposed to be there for a long time. When I go to read the data, I realize there's nothing there to say that it should be. I chew myself on my hands for not asking that question, and I imagine we're more in this room who's done it. Nevertheless, I am convinced that selling an Iceland bank is the right decision. I'm also convinced of this, and it's important that we senators keep it up, that the system around our banking system is good and that it's changed dramatically over the past decade. For the minister of finance, it is the right decision to request a review of this process because it is trust and credibility that is the most important thing. When selling state property, it must always be in a clear, fair, righteous process, and unfortunately we have not received answers to all our questions. So it is essential that the budget, the Economic and Business Committee, and the whole Congress get the answer to the questions that remain.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u3	A respectable president. During the second month of war in Europe, it appears that we are developing a measure of tolerance for horror stories from Ukraine. It doesn't seem to keep our attention for so long. It may be the best count of infectious diseases that must own Iceland record in catching Iceland's attention. This is what the Ukrainians are afraid of, and they have warned, that they forget what the war has to do with it. It's getting late. We can't let that happen. Rather, we are to give up as the situation lasts longer. With each passing day, things will also get worse, and more people will die, more injured, and more will run away. So we must do more, do more, help more, help more, help more. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs and our foreign service are to be commended for not leaving behind. Now the day is longer for us, there's a sun outside, and the big project for the next few days is to pick out our Easter egg. At the same time, this courageous nation, the Ukrainians, fights for things that we think are the word of itself; for freedom and for human rights. We who live in peace and prosperity, which others fought for us, must do everything we can to assist them. Yet, there are many things a small, warless nation can do, especially by welcoming the Ukrainians here and helping the international community to do the same. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u4	A respectable president. The domestic emissary organisation, and I as their chairman, have protested the sale of Iceland's bank and Anion's banks before the first plans for the sale of banks. So I'm not jumping on this wagon right now, after an elephant shoe in the last few weeks. It is heartbreaking to see that my concern and the household's Haustitic organization have been overcrowded. When I saw the list of buyers, I felt as if they had been kicked into my stomach. The truffles have returned and are welcomed, regardless of their victims. These men built a huge gambling city, and when it collapsed, they got off to London and Luxembourg, but they let innocent people get their hands on themselves. At least 15,000 families lost homes because of their actions. The Vikings, however, lost nothing but natural responsibility for what they owed. All of them kept their homes, and have lived in luxury ever since. They had money when traveling and making money in hotels and apartments. Iceland's bank, now worth so much, builds its budget in credit stores, which he obtained at the low prices, while collecting hard work to the top. No mercy was found there any more than among the other banks. They threw up the homes of people whose home was just their own crime at home. They were honest people who didn't have an idea flight to find their homes or take a hundred million dollars worth of money for stock in their own buddies or the bank that lent them. The people did not receive a copy, nor did they ever expect to do so. It was just a matter of being reasonable, but it was nowhere to be found. Violence against these households has repeatedly been denied, and no one has thought of improving their damage. And now the ventaries are back, but their victims are forgotten. Instead, we lie in the grass for the money and welcome the pests back through a closed trade. I've got the biggest shame of all. Guð bless Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u5	A respectable president. It is equal to 65. gr. The Constitution shall be equal to the law, and to the rights without regard for sex, religion, belief, ethnic background, race, color, economic, tribal status, and otherwise. This includes carrying out the law No. 99/2007 will be objective and grammatical reasons to provide the basis for a variety of subsidies. Where the minimum increase in income was observed in 2 mg. Count 9. The law is clear and the purpose of the law, in accordance with 1st. 76. g. The Constitution is to ensure that those pensioners living in this country are not able to support themselves in this land without it, it will not be considered an objective and grammatical view to reduce the payment because the person has lived abroad for a while. Thus, by performing an appeal for payment, discrimination on the basis of living in the sense of 65 C.E. was involved. The constitution will be a reduction in the number of specific replacements that the plain was not justified by enforcing 2 mg. Count 9. is a warrant. In view of all the above, confirm the conclusions of the appeal court. - Iceland's Supreme Court. They're sick people. People are the worst. Those who have mentioned, lived under very poor circumstances, were being asked to get out of poverty in a very poor way. Somebody try to score at 100,000 bucks. a month or 1 60,000 k. or just what is being asked, the 212,000. a month? Be ashamed, for your shame is the shame that governs the terms of government, for you were too busy selling banks at the discount of selected rich people at the same time as the one who appealed to the case did not survive to see the sentence fell in the Supreme Court. An agent of the General Assembly, the District Court, the National Court and the Supreme Court. But the government, yours is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u6	A respectable president. Earlier this week, I made a request for a memo from the Bank Office on the Bankover's Banking Office, which was taken care of by a financial committee. I'm going to request an update on the memo today. First of all, more detailed answers are needed about 700 million. K. cost of tenders. It takes no more than looking at information from the FDA, the cost of registration published in Iceland, to see that this is an abnormal number. Secondly, the highest number. Ministers and Bank Offices that all professionals had to be allowed in. It was closed, and it's not. However, the choice of investors remains unclear, despite the general rules. The F.O. need to be checked from all financial institutions to which persons were raised from a general investor in a professional investor a few weeks before the tender tenders, participated in the tenders, and were assigned. Third, a list of subscribers is needed and is compared to a list of parties who received an item to see how the decrease in oers was, whether it was a good decision for an overseer or to the bank office who was involved. Bank administration's holding the government's property at the bank. In view of this, it can be assumed that her representatives were present at the time of the distribution. Here a white book on the financial system guided by the chairman of the Bank Office was published, with the key to trust in the banking system. That's the best. Ministers have failed to promote credibility in the banking system as a sign of absolute inadequacy and inadequacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u7	A respectable president. Yesterday we discussed a change in the law on the equipment, method of loyalty, and security at work, which is about the work hours of employees who provide personal assistance to the user or NPA as it is called. A user - controlled personal help is a form of service based on the philosophy of independent life that enables disabled people to determine where they live and who they live. Faithful people determine how organized the assistance is organized, how help is provided, when it takes place, where it takes place, and who will provide it. MPA's goal is that disabled people can lead their own lives and have the same possibilities as those who are disloyal, including that disabled persons have maximum control of their life - style. Unfortunately, the expected number of MPA contracts has not been established and the situation today is that only 90 such agreements have been made but should be about 170. The cost of these agreements has been increased by a quarter, with 75% of the cost being covered by rural areas. There is no need for such agreements to be expensive, since many individuals have a great need for service, but unfortunately, the State does not afford the money that needs to be put on this budget and leave their communities on cold ice with financing. A respectable president cannot assume that many disabled individuals are put on a waiting list. There should be no clear demand for long - term agreements between the state and the community. We owe it to the disabled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u8	A respectable president. Recently, funding was given for the first time from the Aski, an expert fund. A total of 95 million were distributed to 23 innovation and research projects in the field of workers. The strength is given to increase knowledge and increase innovation and meet social challenges in the field of workers. The Aggressive Research Fund is funded by the Department of Wets and the University, Industrial, and Neomechanical Ministry, which is under the control of the House and Manicults Agency. The fish was founded last year, but application deadlines for the first distribution were completed on December 9 of the past. 40 applications received, a total of 452 million. K. A specific expert advice was given to evaluate applications and make a suggestion for intervention for a minister who provides the strength in accordance with the guidelines of the fund. This is a very important project, a respectable president, in which it is in everyone's interest and society's practicalness and importance to further research and innovation in the field of man - made workers. The use of Icelandic materials in the construction industry, including our sand, rock, and forest, is essential to further the development of Icelandic intelligence in this field. It is as important to search for ways to reduce man's carbon edification and reduce the use of non-environmental structures, such as the highest. Minister of wood has said it repeatedly. The construction industry is thought to be responsible for about 40% of all emissions worldwide and can play a key role on its own in handling the future issues related to climate. According to this, it is very satisfying to say that the emphasis on the fund was on the social challenges we have faced in the construction industry, such as barber damage and action to reduce carbon dioxide concentrations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u9	A respectable president. All along, working people have had to fight for their terms by all means. Over the years, some employers have tried to break down unions that work in behalf of workers and have used a number of ornamental means to achieve their goals. The most common way was to ignore unions completely and simply not accept their existence. So if there was to be more severe measures, an employee of the professional was always sent to the workplace to offer something in return, for example. not to join ASI, and if none of these were enough, employers simply wanted to set up their own partners who left everything behind, of course the employers in favor of causing division for working people. We're familiar with all of this. A recent example from the western ocean of Amazon is very well - known, where the company scolded its employees thoroughly and threatened them if so much as considered forming a labor union. But that's where the first two routes were applied. A third way is possibly the most dangerous, since in general we trust in unions, unions, to work in our best interests. But the obedient unions, the yellow unions, are the ones who give up everything in contracts, are hidden, and are difficult to deal with. Recently, such a trade union has been given a lot of discussions, a company that negotiated with employers before any person was even hired for the work agreed on, which means that professional drivers contracted themselves through the yellow trade union to the huge mismanagement of the staff. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity, Mr. President, and encourage the council and the state to do nothing to trade companies that negotiate with yellow union unions and specifically see which societies there are to ensure that the government's business is directed to companies in powerful and good union unions who are struggling for the improved pay-employment of the society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u10	President. It's very unveiling to watch the response at the highest level. Secretary of finance to criticism, which has been reported on the sale of the government in Iceland Bank. He sees nothing wrong with the fact that a body of members belonging to the Sveinsson of Benedikt, father to the minister of finance, and Þorsteinn's Már Baldvinsson, director of Samherja's office in an investigation of alleged bribes, tax frauds, and money launderers, are among the buyers. There are also investors who come from a local bank operation during the years before the financial collapse. But it actually makes the best of things. A minister more than that. He blames the council, which he says did not require any conditions for who might be bought or for how much. I'm sorry, Mr President, but it's a minister who's responsible for the sales process, not the council. It's a rather unpleasant conjecture at the council. The Senate, however, plays a surveillance role toward the minister and his work of office, and the council has spoken. Yesterday, the representatives of all classes came up in a pita and declared their will to set up the Allied Research Committee for the sale. It is our assembly to determine who is studying the task of a minister, what this investigation is and how it will be carried out. It is not a minister to set the basis for an investigation of his own duties, let alone when that decision is in direct opposition to the general will of the council. The secretary will take his commission to the council, and he will be monitored by the council. So I challenge the secretary of finance to respect the will of the entire council and to stop participating in an investigation of his own government right now. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u11	A respectable president. My fellow workers at the Council. David Lynch, film director, wrote the book Fishing in the Deep for the Benefits of Introductory Thoughts. He says the best ideas come from the state of quietness the subject of thought. Formerly named David Lynch and his colleagues, Sigurjón Sighvatsson Sighvik, a subsidized course in the interior of meditation in Iceland, and I encourage anyone who can take advantage of that opportunity. We're gonna have to get to the other side of the road. Easter and the ideal time for meditation and meditation are yet to come, especially on what might become our nation's advancement and increase. income resources to sustain all the responsibilities that we are assigned to take on responsibility and cost. There's more of them every day, every year. They are written in our midst, not just by the council, by the government, but by the European Parliament, and 55,000 overactive officials there. I'm going to ask you to meditate on the double skin that we're going to suffer here, for example. We're here producing liquid drugs, but we don't produce greenhouses like cannabis, which is one of the biggest drug increases today. Haggis, industrial disaster is different. Various instruments are allowed, others are not. But I'm just going to say: Let's think about it, with a lack of prejudice and an open mind, all our opportunities here to create an environment for an increase in the income of the Icelandic state so that we can put the people first into the foreground, draw a stream of all the expenses that we have to take responsibility for. [[The president calls.]] Let the Passover benefit us in this regard. Happy Easter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u12	A respectable president. Yesterday, my colleagues spoke to me at the council, okay? paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, the idea that this is a chance to give the people of the country the rest of Iceland, pick up the old checkbook, and send us all checks, thus divide 42% shares in the bank between the population. Indeed, it is an interesting idea that is not really new and has been carried out in various ways in the past. The financial secretary's statement that this idea has been discussed by him with his colleagues is surprising. I don't know that this idea has run into our careers, but like us, we never eliminate interesting ideas from where they may come from. But, Mr President, I would like to correct a common misunderstanding here. The people of the country already own a 42% share in the bank. A respectable president. Dearest nation. You have a trust fund. The wealth is not some third party, it is our share, and we also share his debts. I'm not interested in putting up this idea. I believe it is closer to 42% going to the lowest level of income in the country, to the people who want to buy housing and who have trouble doing so, to the people who have trouble making ends meet, to the people who are not professional investors. Of course, if this route is not available, I want to keep a plan, sell it to the highest bidder, make use of the money to increase the number of health care professionals, increase the number of health care professionals, and invest in the health of the nation, since the profits of that investment are invaluable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u13	Mr. President. Dearest nation. We got a problem. We've lost all trust in the ultimate project. Secretary of finance, sales at Iceland Bank, sales at the stock of the country in Iceland Bank. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir says that he was frustrated, likely frustrated that he was such a gullible agent. The financing of information on the implementation of sales without criticism, a work now cost the Icelandic public billions of dollars in the form of discounts for the chosen buyers of these items. This process has become a problem, a process that was said to have closed up the releases of qualified investors, a transparent process that turns out to be some sort of charade. It's all kaos and it's as high as I'm concerned. The minister of finance calls out more often, and the executives try to convince us that it's all right, the deeper the pit becomes, the piece of shit I want to say when we're in. It's such a ridiculous mess that it is not enough to put the employee who is currently the government accountant's office on the project to prepare a report. That's not enough, Mr. President. This needs to set up the General Research Committee, which is far more comprehensive in research than any government accountant has ever had, as per law on research committees and government accountants. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u14	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir hit the nail right here. We all understood it, so few major and powerful investors should be obtained to buy a substantial share in Iceland banking. The experiment, however, became that there was also a large number of small parties, certainly accustomed to mostly investing, buying small things. 80 percent of over 200 buying for 50 million. K. A few less than 10 million. All of these receive a discount based on the fact that a discount was justified when a large portion of property was bought. This was shown by the Bank Office in the introduction of tenders, by the President's permission: Following the announcement, managers, sales advisors, and traders have a relationship with their customers to investigate interest in the participation and collection of subscriptions. Of course, the question is, Is there not a lack of communication between the bank office and an overseer, a lack of clarity or order, which is why the art becomes so random? Jakob Valgeir Flosason, a developer, expresses himself on the sale today. He bought a billion dollars and wanted to buy more. He describes the decree that was to take place, but it did not occur. If someone wants to criticize them, they should look at the cost of the government. In my opinion, the state should have sold to a few but powerful basement investors, as mentioned at the outset. It wasn't done. Instead, mostly the pensions that pressed the prices down into these 117 pieces. The object on the object. In other words, a higher price could have been obtained if it had been applied. The stockholder as it now looks, with a very controversial group of buyers who were chosen to buy, as I used to trace, speaks into a society that trusts badly banks, banks, and the privatization of financial institutions for good reason. Whatever the case, no matter what the wishful thinking of the government or the bank administration goes by, it will never prevail when this is the result of the reality of the nation's collapse of the bank. Speaking of trust in that context is a political impossible.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u15	Mr. President. Last night, however, in an unprepared question period, it was a question. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, chairman of the Central Party, highest. The Minister's regard for the minister's position on whether it would be possible to give all Icelanders an equal share in Iceland's bank, which would mean, in view of the current State Fund, that each family of four would receive over a million dollars in the bank and that, in turn, all Icelanders would become owners of the bank system. The minister of finance responded well to these speculations, but he declared political problems, as it were, where a group of colleagues or groups were opposed to the approach. Of course, it is vital to establish whether it is the left movement ◯ green supply or the forward category that opposes the public's possession of a direct share in the bank. Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson came into the matter earlier in this discussion, and I have to admit that I am no closer to the forwardness of the Party than the sect believes this idea has not been discussed, and then I leave behind. Councilmen of the left movement ◯ green supply. It is interesting, though, that in a talk. paritaprevir According to Jóhann Friðrik's son James Friðriksson's view, it seems that what matters most is the highest possible price for the property. The advance team is convinced that the owners of the fallen bank at the bank crash are welcome in here, just provided they are willing to pay a little higher prices than e.g. The pensions. But it's fine that it's been framed. But again, to the highest response. Secretary of finance. Yesterday, Bjarni Benediktsson, with permission of the president, said: But the way I've been giving the Icelanders a direct ownership share in the bank is something I've long spoken for. I have failed to agree with members of the council or other members of the council in order to implement it. I count now, the highest. President, to assume that in the week between intermissions there will be a discussion on this in the council and in the wake of this, the Central Party council will request a special discussion on this matter of matter, because this is something that we must bring forth, whether the government class, whether of the Independence Party cooperates, would deny that all of the people will receive a direct interest in the banking system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u16	The president still reminds us of a period of speech limited in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u17	A respectable president. Most of us would not have believed that by 2022 there was a war in Europe and that refugees from Ukraine would need to be prepared to come to the country. In one fell, people's lives are turned upside down. At the beginning of the year, they had ordinary lives, bought food, attended school and work, had birthdays, were loved, and loved. But now each day belongs to a different dimension. Today, they are fleeing the country with nothing but a carry-on and a grief in their heart. Towns have been destroyed, and innocent people have lost their lives. As government responds in international cooperation, the public in Iceland has watched with sadness the development of events and the greatest inadequacy. It's hard to watch from a distance and not be able to do much. That makes me proud when I see the response of company and public in Iceland. Already 2,000 people have been negotiated at different levels of residence. Is this done well in such a short time, but there is still a need for more housing? During the last few days, I have seen in groups on Facebook working as a plan for the arrival of refugees in the country. Volunteers have gathered clothing, furniture, and toys for children, all sorts of household equipment to provide a beautiful home for refugees. Then I saw the staff of the University of Bifrost, along with other volunteers leaving work to carry furniture, dune sheets, and make beds, a little bear was put on the bed. This attitude, a respectable president, does not surprise me, yet I am grateful to live in a country that welcomes refugees and is ready to work on more work for others. We've got the Dulster Week, the week of quiet. Let us approach her in prayer that peace be made available in Ukraine. Happy Easter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u18	A respectable president. We are in a prison of trust, and we need to respond now. During the past 12 hours, the rulers have turned their ship around and directed their spears toward the Allied Council. The Council is now supposed to be the guilty of this unprecedented operation selling on stocks in Iceland banks. paritaprevir The self - sacrificing Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's daughter has decided to take this upon herself and others who are at rest. It's a legal committee. We need an investigation. We need an investigation immediately. The study will not be conducted by a government accountant who simply does not have sufficient legal authority to order people to report, allow people to make a report without making a charge, to obliging companies and societies, and members to deliver data. A government accountant does not have that, except that we have no elected public accountant. [[The president calls.]] He's been called to work for the government as the Ministry. We now have a hired employee as a surrogate who has her own livelihood so that he will not confiscate the government. [[The president calls.]] We have to get the General Research Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u19	President. Since yesterday, groups of government officials have been attempting to make peace with the committee's committees, to assist with the members of the committee, who appeared during last night's discussions, claiming to support them in their word. There's a good reason why this is an independent research committee where sound and image do not communicate when it comes to selling the state in Iceland. The purpose of the sale was one thing and the implementation was quite another. In order to rely on the investigation and its findings, she must be above all doubt. Secretary of finance is responsible for the sale of Iceland Bank, and now after a failure of tenders, Minister has called for an investigation by a government accountant. But, President, after the failure of the sale, trust in the minister of finance is simply broken, understandable. So it is unacceptable for him to make his presence before the council by choosing to set up a personal examination. A financial minister should not be allowed to determine how to monitor himself. It won't hurt. Sorry about the sleigh. The investigation must be held on grounds of the council. [[The president calls.]] It was very clear in yesterday's discussion that the Committee for Research for sale was supported and I sincerely hope that there will be a conclusion today and that we will have a conclusion before Easter break. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u20	Mr. President. Hv. Many council members have now expressed themselves that they have assumed that this trade process was a search for largely long - term investors. We also remained in the position of government. We now see a hedge fund, a foreign source who bought the first round and immediately sold it again, buy again. We see a person with a poor business history from a bank collapse. We see small people who can just as easily buy at the market as the rest of us. We see an overseer who buys himself and women almost not visible among the buyers. All of this gives us reason to investigate the matter, and we need to investigate it here at the council with a special research committee that has more authority and greater authority than the National Accounting Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u21	A respectable president. Yesterday, representatives of all classes approached and supported an independent research committee on the sale in Iceland Bank. I think it's very important that the Council's will be respected. I also find it very important that the Ministers of this government do not play some sort of folly in trying to get their own debt to the council. You were so stupid to believe us when we told you that we were going to get big investors. You didn't say anything about us doing what we said we were going to do. No, perhaps we just assumed that you were going to do what you said, so we didn't think it was a reason to specifically indicate that you should do what you said you were going to do. This is so ridiculous, Mr. Honorable President, it's such a ridiculous saying. It's not the council that's responsible for this sale. It's the highest. A secretary of finance who is responsible for this sale, and it is unacceptable that he will control the scope and carry out his own work. [[The president calls.]] There is no basis for strengthening trust and against the clear plagion that appeared here yesterday from the representatives of all classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u22	A respectable president. And again a mess with the government on these bank accounts. The country did not want to have a bank sold. Why not? Because it's too short from a bank collapse. What will the government do then? Yeah, she's on her way. How? A transparency? No, they're offering that the banks come and buy again. Can you imagine, no learning, no less, no short-term or long-term memory? People protest. We are to protest because we have an obligation to do so, because at the same time they're playing with the rich, they're hitting people for years, poor people trying to get out of their lives in poverty. You can't, no, they're busy privatizing for their friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u23	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is the permanent guardian of state property. He's the one who's messed up the sales process at Iceland Bank. It is not up to him to make a decision or to give any instructions on the type of sale procedure that will be investigated. His line is that it's a national reexamination that should be handled. What's the situation at Government Accounting? Yes, there is no national accountant at work that has been elected by the General. This is the Trustee of the Generals, but there is no elected national accountant at work because the management body sold him to the Ministry with a full adventureful abuse of the staff law on the transfer of officials, which I have repeatedly warned and criticized here on the platform and others. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad that yesterday, in a pedestrian hall, a parapolitan reconciliation developed that will be set up with a research committee to review the sales process. [[The president calls.]] I can't believe it's going to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u24	Mr. President. Since the collapse of the bank, there has been no need for public discussion of how we want to see the banking system developing in this country and what needs to be done to meet the public's will in that regard. We have not talked about diversity, competition, strong surveillance, consumer protection, inexpensive domestic payment services, or financial trust, but these institutions are trust. And even if it's only for them, we have to investigate how this sale was being accomplished right now in order to gain understanding and to build confidence in this process and the ability of the bank owners to run it so that it serves people and businesses in the country. I'm glad that last night there was a parapolitic convergence to establish a research committee to cover this situation. The chairman of the Independence Party, chairman of a council of left green, and a representative of the forward party declared himself willing to do so, which made me happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u25	Mr. President. I'd like to live under the pressure of what's going on. paritaprevir It was Oddný Harðardóttir's daughter who referred to conversations that took place yesterday and that were included in the council classes, at least The Speaker of the Independence Party, beneath this team yesterday and VG. [[Take it up in the "VG."]] At the end of the discussion, I could not help but understand that it would be the most acceptable thing to do in bringing this to the ground in a reasonable way on the basis of a research committee. I've seen members of the House of Governments all here in the hall, and we've been in the hall for the last half hour. I urge them to, of course, that even though we senators are not in the position of giving a total of other members of the council here under the President's Summit, is it not absolutely necessary that the members of Congress express their position as to whether anything has changed since the meeting board was discussed here a day ago? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u26	A respectable president. We've been tracking it here now that criticism of this system comes from all directions and on very different grounds. It comes from the pension funds, from producers, private investors, and even the smallest ones, and then buy those things, there are many disagreements with the fact that the art was eventually published, which is perhaps the most surprising reason to be opposed to the way all of this was done. That's what they talked about here yesterday, like a couple of snoots. Councilmen have established that there would be a committee of inquiry. But at the same time, it's the highest. The secretary of finance to take it up to his own initiative, without the total of any man, and clearly without talking to anyone in the management team or other, to put the matter in a process that is not convenient because of the growth of this matter. There must be a requirement for a research committee to review this. It's more convenient, not only to date. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson mentioned earlier, and it was also a good question regarding the identity of a research committee and a government accountant.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u27	A respectable president. I don't think anything has changed. I told you here yesterday in the Lady of the Generals that I supported the immediate application of the State Department, as the Minister has already requested. If it's not enough, I'm sure the council will consider the matter as a result. The banking board has this case in its custody, it was carried out, and it is normal, according to all occupational standards and conditions, that the State Accounting will pass through it and give us to the legislature so that we can take care of our own role in this matter. So I say, it hasn't changed. I still keep my words from yesterday, and I think there's an absolute harmony among the majority of the members of the council about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u28	A respectable president. Of course, I support the General Commission on the sale of Iceland Bank, but it's no wonder that it's been like this because there's never been a study of what happened after a crash. There's nothing we've learned from that. After Easter, I will request an independent investigation of the banking system and its households after a collapse. This report, I have fought for many years, and I now rely on it. Congress officials see the need for it to be won as we face the events of the past few days. The event was totally predictable to us, who have some idea of how things were going after a crash. The people and homes that were damaged because they deserve to be exonerated, and I expect support from the Senate as a result of its research report.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u29	Mr. President. I think it's a totally correct course to start this investigation at Government Accounting. It's the person we trust to do various surveys for the council, and I think it's serious how I feel that it doesn't seem there to be trust in everyone in that office. A member of the Management Board might provide reports and conditions with the Commission and monitoring committees. I think it's a normal, legitimate start point for a study. It can so fully mean that if we consider the information provided by Government Accounting in some way not sufficiently extensive, it will also be followed by a research committee. But I think it's right to start with this place, get this information from the agency that makes checks for the Council, and then you can do more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u30	V.E.G. President. The financial and economic minister's proposal for the reexamination route is now one of the most elegant butter clips I've seen in the past and has been used in Iceland for many years. It is quite simply that it is not an acting government accountant, and it has nothing to do with our confidence in the office. Here was a man after a man yesterday who claimed to support the proposal for the establishment of an NTSB, but the officials are being tossed to the top of the board. There's no way a financial and economic minister would want to put in the stitches of the sale that can't hold his mind, and then it doesn't matter who they are talking about. It is simply so that the greater part does not rely on analyzing this and giving the research committee, which works as a representative of the research rights it needs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u31	President. I'd like to come forward, for a word's sake. paritaprevir Bryndís the Haraldsdóttir of the above, that there was no evidence in the evidence that large investors were expected to be sold or something like that, that it was simply introduced to a budgetary that it was being used for the proposal because large companies could not be reached with a market or a communication plan - this is the only arrangement that can be used to achieve large investments. It was always presented while the pension fund was expected to be coming into it. Of course, this is not written down because there may have been a possibility of foreign sources or something similar. But it was the presentation the whole time, that the investors they were looking for would definitely be the pension fund. That is the angle we are seeing and we appreciate what happened from then on. That's not what happened. The pension fund was reduced and a lot of tiny investors were taken into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u32	A respectable president. As this matter unfolds, you will always be more and more surprised. After listening to the discussion yesterday, where the government's opposition proposed an investigation, representatives of the majority of the people came up in a pit and said they agreed that way would be gone. I am also surprised to see members of the budget come up here and throw themselves on the sword. We were never asked to write rules that covered the sale. There was no request. For us, it was just a method to be used, a form called an offer. It had been decided long ago that the minister could sell this bank. That's what we were asked to think about, dot. But to listen to this discussion here and start making a financial committee and the council a case of some sort - what's this nonsense?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u33	Mr. President. Yesterday, government officials came forward and supported the General Commission, including those of the Council. Yeah. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, council leader of the Independence Party. He said if it was so that a body of Congress would not feel sufficient to have a government decision to do this, he would support a special committee on behalf of the council. He said with permission: It's perfectly normal because there's nothing I'm afraid of in such a study. This raises an intriguing question: Had a bad one. If a senator had something to fear, would he not support the study? And second, after the events of the day, lean together. A senator still got his word from yesterday?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u34	Mr. President. This is a matter of trust. Confidence in a state accountant? Yes, we trust a government accountant. He will provide a well - established report on what might have been done better, and we must do better next time. We've received a lot of such reports, very good, but that's not what it takes at this point. Trust to the highest. The minister of finance - he does not have much confidence in this process all, naturally not. It's all one big day of judgment. And finally, it's about trust in the greater part now going, contrary to the opposition of the government, to have a government review done, and then, if they think more strongly, perhaps go to the General Commission. Maybe, if they're interested. Mr. President. We have seen in the past how they use their power here and how they argue not to let justice prevail. We saw this in the National Court case during the last term. We saw that in the campaign case in the Northwestern district. We're not going to see it for the third time. We're going to have a real study because it's important to the public in Iceland. We don't want another crash.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u35	Mr. President. I'm sorry that there's been a hint of an extraordinary incident. Councilmen at the highest. A minister of finance can somehow influence the work and work of a government accountant, as I thought it was here in the words of some of them. Senators. A government accountant is and becomes independent of all his tactics, and we have to make sure that it is. He's our agent, and he's our responsibility. I've said and I'm going to repeat it here that if it becomes the conclusion of the council that a government accountant's review, which shouldn't take long, will not be enough to support the establishment of an independent research committee. [[The president calls.]] But I'm asking the Senate to start with the right end of things. Let's stand with the agency that works in our charge and responsibility and give a public accountant a chance to practice his own independent assessment of what happened and how he did it at the sale of Iceland Bank. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u36	The president will have to remind you to do so. Senators have to respect the speech lesson here. Do not exceed 50% of the scheduled time for speaking about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u37	Mr. President. It is interesting to observe the developments here from yesterday onward and to observe the declarations of government officials here today. What is this about? Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir talked about trust, and that's certainly the big thing we have to work around. Hv. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir pointed to the butter plate that is now around the state accountant. For some reason, it seems to be the advantage of government officials to kill cases and to make the discussion a matter of government accountants, not about the work of the publishers, and about the trust of the public at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers, financial and financial systems, all of it. We're here in this room to see our own worth in our efforts to investigate this matter together. [[The president calls.]] We are to form a special research committee, and it is to be the Congress itself that determines it. [[The president calls.]] We're not supposed to accept it to the highest level. The secretary of the economy stands up and says: "I've decided that there will be a state accountant who will investigate and monitor me. [[The president calls.]] That's not fair. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u38	The president still reminds us of the time when, in this case, 50% was also exceeded by the allowed time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u39	A respectable president. Of course, the General Commission is to be promptly appointed. We've listened here repeatedly to the government saying, "Don't point us out." It's Bank County's fault. Don't point us. It's the General's fault. Don't point at us. It's somebody else's fault. Then she brings the chorus and says: " Let's put this to a public accountant, he's on your side. A government accountant isn't on my side. I didn't vote for a current state accountant. He was appointed by the government. Why on earth do you think it's the highest. Secretary of finance wants him to reexamine himself? Because he's expecting a drop score? No. He expects a whitewash. The General Board of Research must arrive right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u40	A respectable president. We have options for this case. We have a powerful resource called the Allied Research Committee. It's the tool to handle the situation. I find it so interesting that we're living here every day in this hall, it falls within his world record of coercion. We listened to a panel of proselytists, and the left greens declare it yesterday, of course, it would be normal to go to a research committee on the subject. A prime minister says that it is reasonable to ask critical questions. If you can ask the critical questions, then the goal would be to get the answers to those questions. I don't see how you can ask questions, but I don't think it's an unpleasant response.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u41	A respectable president. Where are we? After listening to the highest things, I am kind of the object. Prime Minister at news class yesterday. It really needs to wait for a report from a government accountant to tell the public that it is a corrupt business practice to the managers and managers of the invitations to purchase a requisition, that it is absolutely unacceptable to let in foreign funds that bought in the last round and sold quickly with profit, in a career meant to be for long-term investors, because the foreign funds were in business with high-prication shops for it, up to 700 million. K. is there an abnormally high fee in an offer to minimize costs? The weakness in this process is the highest responsibility. Minister and it's up to the surface. Many of these data have been published. To point out only the banking business is a sign, as I said before, a complete lack of leadership and sheds light on inadequacy. To ignore facts that have already come to pass is disrespectful to an Icelandic nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u42	A respectable president. In the end of the sale, the secretary of finance always spoke of this closed invitation so that he was looking for someinvest investors, and that was why these discounts were given, which came to a conclusion. But it was not the past day after the sale had taken place at the moment of the scattered estate, scattered estates, which I find unconcerned to me because this scattered property was achieved at the first invitation when thousands of people were buying in the bank. The dispersible possession was never to be a possibility for a closed discharge with a discount. So I don't understand why it's being given to people who have nothing to say about themselves. Allowing them to enter a closed invitation with a discount is absolutely absurd. And the evidence seems to be changing, depending on how the wind blows at one time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u43	President. I find it very interesting that this responsibility is being held back and forth. They're saying that the National Reexamination should be able to look into this. But the point is, we're talking about the responsibility of a minister. It is the council that monitors the procedures of Ministers. It is very clear in the laws on the sale of the ownership of the State's property that the government's banking agency shall handle the sale of property on behalf of the State, in accordance with the Minister's decision. Then, when an offer is made in part, the government's Department of Banks shall provide a minister with a reasoned assessment, and the minister shall decide whether or not to accept or reject an offer and sign a contract on behalf of the state. So when a minister decides that there should be a certain trade process, the banking agency does it, and a minister will, of course, be able to quote it: this is my decision. Right? Selling his father a share in the bank, was that part of a minister's decision? If he did not know about this, then he is not caring for his duty to supervise the rightfulness of the work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If he knew about it, he's selling his dad a bank.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u44	A respectable president. It will not be long said that we have here in Iceland followed the light into banking over the years. This is a matter of human activity. They are not perfect in this, as it were, and they realize that better things could have gone. The requirement to investigate is perfectly normal, and it is absolutely necessary. It was mentioned in the speaker yesterday. All the representatives mentioned seemed to agree on this. And I repeat that which I said yesterday: The child is burnt, and there is no healing. Tens of thousands of Icelanders lost their homes a few years ago, and they are not seeing the end of all that. I would refer to a film which is closely related to investigating, Ransacked, a robbery in Icelandic, photograph by Pétur Einar Einarsson, former Straum's bank manager, who had the Óskar Páll the son of Sveinsson. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to get you access to this picture. It is one of the greatest heroes in recent years, and it illustrates what happened and why we are still on guard, full of suspicion and a desire to have a little thing and a big research. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to reiterate that there has been no loss in establishing an independent research committee. We are, however, some here who speak of a government accountant who is independent of his work as a natural place to start this work. I believe that, because a state reexamination is constantly going over and over, that the conclusion of such a case could lie before anything fast and indeed, and that's what matters. It's important to get some results and focus on what happened quickly. I agree with what's said about the way to build confidence is that everything is on the table. That's why it matters, I believe, to go this way. An independent research committee, which I think is also a good idea, works differently and will take more time in their jobs. But let's start with the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u46	V.E.G. President. Government officials need to understand that a government accountant does not have the same protocols as investigators established by the General. I'm going to mention here, and I'm going to say that a New York City survey made a health check in 2002 - Iceland's Buddhist Bank, Iceland's Landsbanki, the bank sale that caused the collapse, received a proof of health care from the Government Accounting. Government reviews do not have legal rights and tools to do what needs to be done. Therefore, there is no need to start there. We'll go straight to the board, clean up the case, people shoulder political responsibility, and maybe, just maybe, increase the confidence of voters on this job and on the banking system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u47	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here as a result of what you said. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, who somehow made it clear that there's something very distrust about the Government's Accounting. That's wrong. It's totally wrong. On the other hand, a suspect is that the government groups distrust what could result from the findings of the Allegorical Committee, which is, of course, the right scene to handle this case, as was attributed well at the beginning of the day. paritaprevir Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddóttir. So let us bear in mind that the process is of course, so we are calling for an investigation on what is below the highest level. Secretary of finance. This cannot be the nature of the case, so the same minister determines the procedure without consultation with the council, which, though, is supposed to have custody of these things. It just doesn't work that way. It's about selling more parts of Iceland Bank. If this is to be done in such a way that some trusted state, we need to put this case in the right process, which, of course, is a source of authority, tools, and tools to go down to the bank and give it to those in the investigation there are positions that are not valid for the National Review Committee, which are important, as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If we're going to continue selling in the banking system, we're going to have to start this research committee first.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u48	President. We are talking about selling state property, and when it is done, trust must be exercised. Once the process is as crooked as it has been discovered, this trust will be gone. So people begin by asking: " Is it so ostracism that some corruption is involved? It has been noted that in this process, individuals defined as being at risk because of political ties under the law of action against money laundering were included. Yesterday, all groups agreed to go to an independent NTSB study and were not afraid to see what such tests would show. Today, after I've heard at the highest. Secretary of finance, however, is all of them afraid of being the highest. Ministers have done something wrong that they dare not take such an independent examination. [[The president calls.]] If we want confidence, we need an independent investigation on the basis of the council, not on the basis of the highest standards. Secretary of the budget decides to make a decision to establish a state reexamination. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Hv. Senators. Let us quit this corruption - dealing practice and show that we are worthy of our trust. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u49	Of course, the president makes a comment to that question. A senator greatly exceeded the period of public speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u50	President. This is not about our not trusting the office of a government accountant. We do not trust a minister of finance, that is what it is, and hence we do not trust his laws. We do not trust the financial minister's suggestions on how he feels it is best to conduct this investigation and who he feels is the best way to go in this investigation. That's what this is about. [["President of the National Accounting..."]] - Now I'm talking. If a minister was concerned about credibility, he would simply have declared that this serious situation called for an investigation and that he had handed it over to the Senate to determine who should study and put it out of the investigation. It is said that the other part wants to create some confidence in this process. The confidence is that we are traveling here at the council on which way we're going to find out the truth. Is the other part really just going to worry about the government in this matter? We've declared that we want to investigate. [[The president calls.]] We want the General's Independent Research Committee to investigate this matter. [[The president calls.]] And they're supposed to ask for a state reexamination. Did a head check the bank drop before the NTSB was set up? [[The president calls.]] No, of course not. [[The president calls.]] It's just that it's never been done. This is bullshit, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u51	Mr. President. I'm in a bit of a similar place to when I first came up with this meeting board. I'd like to, with President's permission, to recall a word. paritaprevir The Independence Party and the council president Óli Kárason's son, yesterday. Thus I thought that the matter had come into play very well. But last night, he said why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, with permission of President: If this is the case so that the U.S. Senate believes that it is not sufficient for the National Reunion, a office under the Council, to be responsible and represented by the Council, to review this sale, but to appoint a special research committee to review the sales process in this process, I will support it. It seemed to me that there was a very sensible landing in this case, and I don't believe that we can find a way to the conclusion that I thought was involved in yesterday and that I got close to it like that. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason put it in his speech yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u52	A respectable president. We've been here on sale of government property, stock sales in Iceland Bank, and many members of the council have expressed their concern about the process. It was suggested that the process would be transparent and open, which is of utmost importance when dealing with government property. I think it is also very important that we listen to these concerns. But as soon as I say so, I think it's only natural that the government has first been consulted, which is a state accountant. It's been told here in pontta that that that process won't take long, and I think we should push as hard as possible after it. If the conclusion is any reason to look at this further, it will not be necessary for a panel to start a research committee to consider this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u53	A respectable president. The initial theme of sales therapy was that the process would have to be over-trusted and that it would resist trust. Now the response of all the people in the country to the fact that it is not. Then it is only natural to do what the superintendents intended to do yesterday using the best tool we have to restore trust by answering questions in a real and critical way. This is not a matter of trust in Government Accounting. It's about trust in this trade process. We've got tools to deal with this. These are the General's research committees. That's what they're for. There is a hollow sound in standing here today talking about understanding anxiety, talking about the need to answer questions but refusing to use the tools we have. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u54	A respectable president. We're in a hot mood, I hear it, I'm watching it. [[It's a big deal.]] It's a big deal. I agree with what. A senator here in the hall. It's a big deal, and I want to reiterate that I hear and understand. I'd also like to reiterate what I said here yesterday, that I probably feel like rolling all the rocks on this case, but I think it's only natural that we start with our National Accounting Bureau. They say it's not about trust in Government Accounting. I think it's serious to hear references to 20 years of age and conclusions. Chairman of the administration and monitoring committee. I think it needs to be discussed in the field of administration and monitoring committees whether the real state is solid based on how the discussion is conducted here. [[Up front.]] I trust a state accountant as the first at this job, and, of course, in view of the fact that there is a need to roll with all the rocks, if that work, or the conclusion, that there is something that needs further to be considered, I believe that a special research committee will be established. [[Up front.]] [[The point is, it's not about the source and the tools you have.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u55	Mr. President. This decline story of dealing with this object in Iceland, which is probably not all there, throws people's minds back to the year of collapse. That's the way it is. There we wait not only for economic bankruptcy but also for moral failure. It's going to hurt. It is a wound that we will heal. Today, it is chosen to follow the standard approach of Government Review, which will examine legal matters, or go to the will of those who want the most focal instruments we have, a research committee that will have more research rights, a stronger instrument, and will examine the big movie, legal, economic, and moral issues. This is what we need to examine. This is our responsibility. We granted a minister authority for the sale. [[The president calls.]] We need to do all we can to find out how he exercised the authority we gave him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u56	A respectable president. It's already been less. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's manner of supporting the General Research Committee. I just want to remember that I said here in this sermon that it wasn't enough, that it wasn't sufficient for a state reexamination to go to this study. It would be more correct for us to start with the General Research Committee. That's what went wrong. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson, said, with permission of the president: If it's the best idea. Ministers on the opinion of the State Accounting on this matter is not enough, I take my heart to the idea of setting up a special investigation on the matter, just a mind. - And then he repeated his support. This too was done by a representative of the advance. I also want to recall what I said because it was very difficult for me to believe. I couldn't believe they really exist in some kind of self - surveillance program. I said, I would also like to, in view of previous experience, trying to establish an investigational committee [...] warning and saying that any delay in the progress of the commission of the Committee will be observed as intentional delays in the investigation. The talk of formalistic factors will be all considered, and I don't know what I've experienced in trying to establish a research committee [...] as a premium to prevent an investigation. I'm happy for the feeling I hear, but I need to see the work talking before, and I really believe it. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry I was right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u57	A respectable president. Why would the director of the Commission and the Commission have quoted earlier in his 20 - year - old case in which Government Accounting held its blessing on the sale of banks? This is because the matter explains that there is heaven and sea between State Reexamination and FBI research committees. There are skys and sea between available research sources when the State Reconnaissance examines the matter and when the Federal Research Committees examine the matter. It's amazing to hear this party's left-green model tryin' to paint it up as a form of distrust in the State Accounting. And it comes from the same administrative part of the world, and it is a matter of applying employee laws in an unsolved and unsolved way so that a government accountant from the legislature to the legislature, which has been elected by the General Assembly, is now not a government accountant. When do you want to vote for him? When should he be chosen? [[Up front.]] What is this nonsense? Yesterday, Orri Páll Jóhannsson told him why. paritaprevir Left green, very clear: if an idea - if an idea -- the highest. Ministers on the subject's opinion of this case is not enough, so I take my heart to the idea of setting up a special investigation on the case. [[The president calls.]] Hv. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson said the same thing. [[The president calls.]] Now they've eaten it in their mouths. Do they have no respect for themselves? [[The president calls.]] Do they have no respect for the Generals? It's the highest. Secretary of finance with these men in harness? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u58	A respectable president. After the last speaker's words, I thought, "Yes, according to the words that fell here yesterday by the House of Congress, then, in the meantime, they have run the first and second classes. ' That is how this happened in the meantime because of the leadership of the people in the government business. It's about building trust, building trust, and for good reason we're calling it out. For good reason, we are saying: "Come with us, support us in getting a research committee at the council because it has more authority, more widely available to build up the trust we so so desperately need, to build confidence in the General Assembly, to build up trust in bank and financial institutions. For us who want to take the next step in releasing the government's ownership on the banks, this is the key. [[The president calls.]] So I guess I'll just say what I'm gonna do. Part-of-the-part senators to come with us. [[The president calls.]] You guys, at the council, let them have you. Don't get thrown into the corrals and mule your own way in this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u59	A respectable president. Because of what? paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson asked if I don't respect myself, so I can answer that I have respect for all individuals in this room, including myself, to be answered. I have respect and confidence in Government Accounting as our field to get into the balance of these matters. I hear what's said here, that people don't seem to believe that there's enough authority from a state accountant to do it. If it turns out in the work of a state accountant that there is a need for more authority, I declare it over again, so clearly: I will not compromise to support the establishment of a special research committee to dig deeper into it because I believe it is very important that all stones are rolling around. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator that it is about trust, and we sense it completely during the discussion here and in the community and in the media that it does not have complete confidence in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u60	President. Hv. A senator speaks of trust. There is no confidence that this process was carried out as it was supposed to be done. And why are you whiskers? The members of the State Department suddenly became afraid that all stones will be turned around, afraid of being examined as to whether corruption occurred? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Since the members of Congress would like to try to draw this issue for as long as possible, hopefully the nation will forget it all in their next wish, just as we've forgotten what we had to talk about in the past week, on Rasisma at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u61	Mr. President. I'm just wondering because it sounds like everybody's agreed on the need to take a good look. The decision is about who is the best person to do so. I'm only digging with two things. First of all, if the result is a News Report, who will determine whether it is enough? Who values it? Is that some part in here? [[Upwards: Yes]] We think it's possible to do better. Or what can one picture? Who's gonna value this? Then there is the other opinion, which I also wondered about, back with the reference to the greater section here. The recruitment of a new government accountant will likely be arranged before this report is completed. Such recruitment is always in the shadow of this project. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Who will be selected? Who appreciates what national accountants best to win this report, so that they do not have to attend the General Research Committee? Some part here? Let's finish this. We want to get to the bottom of this. We're not gonna have this hanging over us for another 15 years. Let's show we can run this community. The NTSB, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u62	There is no trust in this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-08-65.u64	The president wants to guess, because this has led to the vote of a state accountant, that in a publication published at the beginning of March, if I recall correctly, it was noted that the General Assembly would prefer a new government accountant in May and that a legal process based on the rules of the Presidency of its implementation is initiated. So it is the time frame involved in it.
