ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u1	Borist has a letter from the 7th. That's the north side. " Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, " said, "that he will not be able to attend a meeting in the near future. So today, at Council 1, a deputy of the Central Party Arts of the District, Árnadóttir Colbrönótttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u2	The president wants to report that he has received a word from the group of Falcons, about the change of committees, sir. 1.mg. Section 16. Congress. Sæland Goland takes his seat as the head of the pro board instead of Tómas A. Tómasson's son, who will be the deputy of the same committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u3	There have been letters from the Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister where they ask for an invitation to give a written answer to a covering query. 338, about the choice of electrical sources for disaster, from Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson, and on a threshing floor. 343 about pollution in the old pool of water at Cheflavík, Njardíkíkíkíkíkígur, from Birgir the son of Þórarinsson. A letter from the Minister of Justice has also been received where an request is made to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 316, police experience and education, from Gísli Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u4	Mr. President. I'd like to make it a subject of business affairs that concerns the company's environment, in particular the competition of private conflict with public enterprises. I have been in business for some 15 years, so I know the Icelandic business environment well. It is characterized, not by gang swings, high interest levels, and a demanding workforce, to name something. In addition, thousands of individual companies in Iceland are competing with public companies in a competitive market, and we are talking about in 2022. A recent report by the Ministry of Economics says that the Icelandic government has a complete or dominant possession share in 40 companies. They work in almost every area of their business, such as financial services, media, transport, goods, research and counseling, to name something. A recent report by the National Institutes of Economic Institutes of the United States states that 70% of government leaders believe they are competing with other companies and that about 40% of the interests of all public companies from which the answers are made are at a competitive market. 40% of the roll is in a competitive market. It is important for the State to pause and evaluate whether the services of public companies are needed in a competitive market, whether the private sector may be able to care for it better, inexpensive, or to be offered on the market. The Kingdom needs to create competition and reduce its activities when it comes to competition in which a government - oriented company operates. In this way the personal enterprise will flourish, pioneers will have the opportunity, and service could improve. All of this that I listed earlier and more work against the vital social benefits of active competition. This effect is not guaranteed in the current public policy of the State for societies. OECD has suggested that public policy support is given to why some business in a competitive market needs to be in the hands of the government. If such parties are to be in a competitive market, they must serve the clear interests of society. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I intend to use my time at the General Assembly right now to propose a Senate resolution that the government will re-evaluate the involvement of government companies in a competitive market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u5	The president reminds us that a speech period at the council is limited to two minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u6	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss just one of my main concerns, which are mental health. Now I've been interested in a group of languages for many personal reasons for years, in the mental - health management program, and in the privilege of working recently for more than two years with a mental - health team in the health care of the capital area, one of the good things I've enjoyed before. A health minister, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, prepared the last term. I can be sure that this is meeting a great need and that it may even need to give even more attention, especially because of the Covid epidemic that has an enormous impact on our mental health all, as all major traumas inevitably do. The enormous cost of saving must be kept in mind when discussing expenses to this class. The problem is exactly that the damage is often literal, not measured, and the danger is that what is not recommended simply does not result in making decisions. However, having something not measured does not necessarily mean that it does not exist. You just need to keep an eye on the picture. Take it, for example. Today's debate about sexual abuse and its effects. We are primarily talking about mental health, violence that damages the mental health of people. Research clearly shows the damage it can cause to people throughout life if they do not receive appropriate assistance. Mental - health matters are not something; they are basically everywhere. I encourage a world of Congress to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u7	A respectable president. I'm here to talk about the council's work. I spoke here at the beginning of December, just at the beginning of this council, and at the beginning of a new election season, for a bill on an expensive voyage, The Bear of Haemoglobinaemia. The narrative ran out on January 17th. 129 reviews were received, which is now so close to being with the more we see here at the high Council. 236 reports were then received to the EEA, and if dead bodies make most of them available, according to the information I have from the EEA, at home for a job board, because they discussed blood quality itself. The case is huge, but as odd as it is, and I don't believe it until I take it that there's no further and more efficient payment, that it's only once happened to a professional committee, only once found its way into the job board. It wasn't on the committee program this morning. It is not on Thursday afternoon on the committee's program. But we, a respectable president, have a 129 client who I would like to allow me to doubt that the Committee is not entirely willing to obtain reports and plots and to allow them to follow their comments in that respect and that we committees have the opportunity to ask further questions in their comments. It's really hard to find how sick you are in a government stand, even though you're a prisoner of will and work as if I don't know what, like a real horse that draws a real weight after you to improve the social situation. It is a tragic, respectable president, if it is really so that governments are struggling to handle a matter that even the whole nation calls for political treatment here. So I just challenge us all on the pro board and what. The head of the committee, Stefánsson's Vagn, to handle the matter and bring it into place so that we can discuss it in a democratic way here in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u8	President. The great elements of the Versailles remind us of many things these days, both good and bad. They're smaller, e.g. at that time when we were not allowed to drink beer and joy when the takeoff of Icelandic society was finally permitted. It is a classic joke to recall the warnings that fell within those walls when it was discussed, perhaps thinking of many advantages today, but may not be so different from the words that still fall here today when we are talking about free shops with alcohol. From that discussion, it would seem that it is a key to public health against the evils that alcohol can certainly be, that there are none other than public employees who stand by that box, public employees who do their work very well, and nothing at all over the cooling but are cost of public funds in valuable housing across the country that could be more useful to the public but that, despite all the efforts of the people of the country, they are able to approach this legal consumer in their own environment. All right. It is a reality that all the bills that have made this store more free have dawned on. It's a real reality, but I hope that the same fearful reasoning that appeared 35 years ago about beer may be paralyzed. That we gradually have the wisdom to walk the road in steps - in course of steps, I think, to form a bill for setting up precipitous legislation on the Internet store with alcohol on the land that I will file here at the council, hoping for a good discussion of, in order to level the status of domestic and foreign commerce in this respect, and highlight the legality of local network stores with alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u9	President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has often talked about the importance of buying, compared with how it has developed. In recent years, since 2009, the figure of consumer prices has increased by 40%. Land production has increased by 7%, but by 2020 it is a very strange year, so if we make 2019, it's 17%. If we look at how disposition measures have developed since the index price of consumption, the groups of the lowest wage, the minimum, the third, and the fourth income have been held, approximately in terms of the development of an index of national production of about 15◯17%, something like that has increased. The higher income groups have not increased as much, they have increased less, or around, 8◯9%, the ninth, or the tenth income. That's interesting. If we look at the debt, however, the debt of the minimally paid ones has actually fallen somewhat, by half or so, and the debt of those who are at the highest paying rate has also fallen, not as much, but, by 143/415%. Then you ask yourself: " Where did this land production go if it has yielded to the lowest amount of money and not to the highest paying? Where is the domestic product? The answer is: The property. The belongings of the highest earners have been summed up as long as the most significant property has been increased by 26◯28%. There's the big numbers. We are talking about people or families who have 90 million in their possession. [[The president calls.]] There are the big numbers over which money has gone over the past decade.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u10	A respectable president. Thousands buy fines, hoping to get a quick profit. While the odds of choosing the right Lotto numbers are low, many are involved. Tomorrow, thousands of families will be waiting for, but it is not in the hope of making a quick profit. In fact, this is a lottery, since the winning odds of Icelandic families are considerably inferior to families in neighboring countries and not a few families are participating voluntarily. Tomorrow we'll find out how much the harbor bank is growing. The market reader agrees that the increase will be significant. The situation is simply that in Iceland during a relatively short period of time, interest rates are wiping out more than a monthly salary per year for a person with moderate income and a common housing bar. This is true of thousands of homes. The message from the highest. Yesterday's secretary of finance was that it would be a source of comfort to find that borrowing is easier. What kind of system is it requiring normal families that they almost have to keep out their own analysis departments, such as banks to minimize damage in the petite environment? Is it reasonable that the country's homes need an active stunt control year by year to protect their most valuable property? And no matter how families discern how they control, the conclusion is that this lottery does not produce a dollar or a dollar for a good subject. V.E.G. A financial minister also said yesterday that he thought that in Iceland the growth environment could become like that in neighboring countries. This same financial minister has been directing the nation's economic affairs continuously since 2013. His party has controlled the nation's economic affairs almost throughout the republic. The same continuation, with the same rapid growth development, and with the same currency as in recent decades, can be assumed that the minister's dream will be realized long after all of us become under the green grass. Homes in the country cannot stand that waiting. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u11	A respectable president. Average. On average, members of the government are out on a field when talking about the average, i.e. When they say that the worst of them, on average, had never been better. The confusion and nonsense about the average going around and in all the darkness of this government is, in a word, ridiculous. On average, the companies in the country are very good, but, fortunately, the government is helping those companies on average who do not have good but seriously bad, and by supporting and other measures. All right, the companies first of all that are good, and then, of course, the first job of the government is to help the people who are the worst because of the Covid-19 or the more inflated inflation. No, of course not, for the worst of the people who cannot attend 80,000 k. unexpected extra expenses, those that have been given 10,000 bucks. increase over the last year, but it has to pay 155,000,200,000 dollars. an increase in rent, an average of such extraordinary good. This bitter, amazing taste - inspiring average of the leaders of this government is here directed directly back to the Father House by mouth with the related nausea and nausea. On average, this government is uninhabitable and wasteful for the worst of our citizens, a country where a large group has no money for food, medicine, or clothing and is now in danger of losing their home, such as in the collapse of the bank. This average government is completely incompetent for the worst, and it's supposed to give up all mediocrity and resign. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u12	V.E.G. President. I want to make a subject of the most serious financial situation in Reykjavík. Less than two years ago, the city has a real distress call to the Generals because of its poor financial situation. The city's commission to the Cathedral on legal bill stated the following about the city's financial status, with the permission of a president: ▪ The problem, however, is not merely a short - term financing problem; it is headed for a completely unsuspecting business for many years. This insatisibility cannot be solved by the rise of permit taxation or services, or by large cuts in the city's spendings, which, to the most extent, contribute to the elementary school and welfare services. Standard methods are not available. Then it cannot be solved by large loans, since money from business will not be available for many years. These are not beautiful descriptions, Mr. President, but since those words were written by the city's CFO of Reykjavík, and the city council has made the city's financial affairs worse. The city has collected only 25 years of debt and has over 400 billion dollars. That means the city has owed each of its inhabitants about 3 billion. K. ... andeveryfourman family of over 12 million. K. Mr. President. We're not talking about any community. This is the national capital of the country, which has a high population of 40%. So it is a serious matter. It would be good for you to know here at the council whether this distress call has responded to the financial management committee and the local management department's office, and where there are ways to improve. Is Reykjavíkurburg in intensive care at the State Department or on its way? The city's above - mentioned mission should have given every reason to do so two years ago. If not, there should be an even greater reason for this, since the city's position has continued to worsen, and according to strategy plans, it is aimed at continuing unsuspecting business and further payment. I will present a formal inquiry on the matter to the secretary of state affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u13	V.E.G. President. What I would like to discuss here, in the presence of the council, is the financial situation of my unit. The country's farms vary in size and size and nature and are consistent with the magnitude of the situation, according to the economic situation of which Covid-19 has caused in the economy. It is clear, though, that their situation has deteriorated greatly, and some rural communities now face a very serious business problem and the future business prospects are bleak. What I would like to shed light on here in this discussion, the highest. President, the position of the four largest rural members of the country, Reykjavík, Hafnarfjörður, Kópavogs, and Akureyri is set by some 221,000 inhabitants or about 60% of the country. According to the year - to - year revision of these rural communities for 2021, which was taken together by the European Union of Iceland, which appeared last September, the problem is real. According to the PSUR, expenses increased by 13.7%, of which pay and related charges are increased by 16.3%. The rate of business progress was doubled between the years, from 5.6 billion to 10 billion per year, while the total operation rate is about 8.9% of revenues compared to 5.6% at the same time last year. Most of the money was taken by Reykjavíkurburg or 10.4% of the company's income. The successful rollout in 2021 was negative at 2.2% of revenue, and compared to that, the operating budget was positive by 3.1% at the same time last year. Debts and commitments, at the end of June 2021, increased about 250 billion and 13.9 billion from the years of the year, or 5.9%. As a result, I challenge all of us who are here at the General Assembly to take to heart a serious view of the land - to - country income exchanges, since the tools that the rural communities possess are known to have at hand, in order to strengthen farms, are severely limited in comparison with the state. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u14	A respectable president. What can we do better in the wake of a natural disaster? In December I, along with others, suggested that the government be assigned to make an assessment of insurance protection and damages as a result of natural disasters. The aim is to determine what is mainly lacking in insurance protection and processing and to find ways to improve. Now the reviews have been received, and it is most recently reported that this is in charge of the proposal and encouraged to follow up on the report. There's even some reviews. According to current laws on Iceland's natural disaster insurance insurance insurance protection, the predefined events, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, landslides, avalanches, and oceans. There have been indications that it is normal to evaluate e.g. Whether screams or other catchs followed by natural disasters fell under the guarantee, and neither is forest, bush, and forest fires that are becoming a growing threat. Since 2009, the work of the Fund has been greatly summed up after local communities stopped depositing, as well as the community at the end of the collection of equipment fees. In view of these changes and interactions with other insurance protections and recent traumas, the report will need to be addressed. From Flatland and the Sunland, it is legitimate to suggest that if employment life is to be maintained in the habitats facing nature, the need for changes in the defenses of employment and damages is critical. What is a community without businesses after a major loss of property and headquarters? Maybe we can. Did anything from the experience with the support of the job life through the Covid pandemic and individual communities in which the job life ends after natural disasters? I'd like to encourage you. The members of the Economic and Business Committee to handle the situation and the reviews for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u15	A respectable president. Recently, I visited the Sysias, the Lithuanian council, and here I make a plea for support from members of the Lithuanian council. Of course, the main subject was, of course, the preconceived threat of further Russian invasion in Ukraine. A major threat to the Russian military is the rise in the United States. They have taken a clear stand with Ukraine and with democratic reforms in the White Russia, such as the European Union, Iceland, and all similar nationalities. But Lithuanians need support from the international community. They have called after both the U.S. Army's presence in the country and their close cooperation with the NATO and the European Union. International cooperation and cooperation are essential here. Colorists certainly have not forgotten us Icelanders in support of their independence struggles when we first have their acceptable independence and our friends in the Northern countries followed. For this they are always grateful. But now they call for further support from the Icelanders. We need to support them on their journey to support the Ukrainians and the Whiteussa. I would like to encourage the Icelandic Parliament to take advantage of the opportunity to speak for human rights, speak for democracy, and speak for the dignity of international law.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to call the attention of the United States Parliament to an arrangement that will later be given today, as well as to the members of the body's body on a financial committee, suggest that the Ministry of finance counterweight measures be used to soften the impact on the homes of the country that is facing because of severe inflation and growth failure. Direct financial support needs to be considered because of rapid changes in housing costs, but the households are also able to place an increase in costs over longer periods of time. Examples already exist in foreign lands. There is strong evidence that the current economic situation, both in the case of inflation and in the rise of housing, is the result of a global political mismanagement on the part of the local government, which took too late for specific measures and dispossess the decision to distribute funds to the banking system and the Federal Bank. Possessions have gone up and pressed inflation, and now the oil ship has to be turned around. During the past few months, the government repeatedly quoted low interest due to successful economic schemes and responsibility for having encouraged people to increase their debt rate at a single time in the history of interest in Iceland. In fact, some 450 billion dollars were in debt. for the encouragement of the government. This additional debt has resulted in an increase in financial instability, as the Navy has warned, but home is vulnerable to a highly controlled phase of money management that now exists. It is important that the government will not be too late to deal with this late phase of the economic crisis of the crown crisis, where the problem is mainly inflation and national instability. These counter-important measures need to be complete when and if the call comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u17	A respectable president. Those who tolerate sexual abuse are more than the scene of a crime, which defines a challenge to the highest level. Minister of Justice as five courageous women, all of whom have the common need to have been violent and tried to seek justice, are in charge along with the strategists. Their insistence is that violations of the law become involved and comparable rights apply to defendants rather than simply being identified as witnesses in their own charges. These brave women experienced inadequacy, elimination, and disrespect in their journey through the legal system and that the system itself was inhumane, as one of them put it: going through the charges was a shock. In the case of the legal system, the body becomes fragile at the scene of a crime and of violation of its ability to deal with the legal system in a case that is considered only to be related to the State and to the defendant. Now in the next few weeks, the highest. Minister of Justice Jón Gunnarsson provides a bill for improved rights violations. It is my sheer hope that the whole world of Congress will meet the challenge of these five brave women and score on the highest scale. Minister of Justice to take the step to the full and to bring in the violations, or most of the rights, of the defendants. At the same time, I challenge the highest. Ministers to take advantage of the opportunity to take steps toward improving society by means of a legal system that is properly involved in sexual violence. If we want to create a human justice system here on a land that will better ensure the quality of research, we will make the issue a subject of sexual violence, as is customary in Norway, Finland, and Sweden. So I urge all Americans to enter the Hormour site and show their own framable support by signing a challenge to those whom I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u18	Madam President. The discussion on the importance of cluster witnessing has been increasing in recent years. Classes have proved that they're improving competitiveness and valuables, but ideologies can be used to achieve increased cooperation and management between public and institutions, along with changing and developing a better condition. The structure of a government cluster enables further management of government operations, along with improved organization in many areas as well as in the management of institutions. Official clustering can require increased production, innovation, and thus increase the production of valuables. The structure of a cluster of public enterprises and institutions can provide considerable economic management but can be put out of 5,000-6,000 m2 office housing, which would be involved in hosting from a number of less public companies and institutions at the same time. This process can provide economic support with a synergistic effect for the enterprises and organisations that will be there. These include computer systems, the welcome of the cafeteria, and the maintenance of the home itself, to name something. A respectable president. In addition, it would be desirable for such a clock to be located in an area where a more efficient driving fortress can be used, especially for driving directly against what is now aimed at reducing traffic weights. It is important to view places where high - quality social transportation is and to be present.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u19	Mr. President. The Agency published in December an overview of economic growth from the beginning to the end of the last economic growth, degradation in part of the country in 20126/2019. It's a remarkable piece of paper. This is especially evident in the poorness of economic growth in land areas. The big picture is this: From the Hornfjord of the Hornfjord, economic growth has been from one third up to two thirds of the national average. He was remembered on the East or on an average of 1.6%. Next, an investment would have to be analyzed into part of the country. The result would likely be similar because investment is essential for economic growth. Bankers are particularly interested in borrowing money from secure bets. Therefore, building agency needs to be borrowed on grounds of regional and job development. Her goals include: to promote edification and employment with special emphasis on the equations of all citizens of the country for employment and living. While banks run into interest rates and services, much of the interest needs to be run on interest. But is it not contrary to the aim of letting borrowers, mostly of weaker settlements, pay for the equations of all the people of the country? Mobility has long been described in the country, but as Lúðvík Jehosep's son Jósepsson weary, e.g. it is not to be discussed here at the General Assembly, and it can be read in the House News, it is empty and empty if possible, by permission of a president, a loan to be made where it is needed to ensure employment and safe living. With a relatively modest increase in contribution to the Agency, the loan rate may be reduced, making investment practical in the areas of the country that so desperately need interest. It would be a life anchor for smaller settlements that are ready to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u20	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a state-of-the-art committee apparition proposal to conspire with the confirmation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 50/2020 about the change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention, i.e. Well, financial services. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by members of the Ministry of finance and the Ministry of State. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 50/2021 of the change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention and Membership of Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EU) 2019/834 of 20 May 20 May 2019 for the review of Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 648/2012 as for the institution, persistence of the institution's eligibility, reporting requirements, minimisation risk measures for OTC derivatives, non-sized intermediate organisations, registration and monitoring of sufficiency logistics and management requirements. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson were absent from the hearing. This is in accordance with the opinion of Rafn Rafen Ólafsson, an officer of the Committee. It's under the heading "Why." Senators Bjarni Jónsson, Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, Birgir Þórarinsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Logi Einarsson, Njáll Trausti FriiðssonFriðbertsson and Þorgerður Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u21	Mr. President. I'm here to present a committee opinion with a motion-changing proposal for interpretation of the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee on the Change of II. Annex (Subjects, standards, testing and certification) to the EEA Convention (organic product). The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a Iðunn Guðjónsdóttir from the Ministry of prose and innovation and Ingólfur Friðriksson and Erna S. Hallgrímsdóttir from the Ministry of State. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the determination of the joint EEA Committee for a change of II. Annex (Subjects, standards, testing and certification) to the EEA Convention (biological product) including the Convention on Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EU) 2018/848 of 30 May 2018 on bioproduction and the meaning of organic culture product and the breakdown of Council Regulation (EC) No. 834/2007 and the Council and Council Regulation (EU) 2020/1693 from November 11, 2020 of the review of Regulation (EU) 2018/848 on bioproductisation and the biodiversity of the Agency for the date of implementation and specific other dates in this Regulation. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The Commission suggests a change in the number of decisions made by the joint EEA committee in the motion and the headline of the case. The committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the following: a. Following the statement "Environment of the European Commission's joint committee's 1st case. Question: No. 31/2022. b. The headline of the proposal is as follows: Suggesting for interpretation of the decision made by the joint EEA Committee No. 31/2022 about the change in II. Annex (Subjects, standards, testing and certification) to the EEA Convention (organic product).
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u22	Mr. President. This committee's opinion is of a proposal for the resolution of the decision made by the European Commission No. 214/020 of the change in IX. The Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention from the Foreign Affairs Committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has received a meeting with Elísabet Júlíusdóttir from the Ministry of Economics and Economics and Ingólfur Friðriksson and Erna S. Hallgrímsdóttir from the Ministry of State. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 214/020 of December 11, 2020, the change in IX. Annex (System Service) to the EEA Convention and Member State Regulation and Council (EU) 2017/1991 of 25 October 2017 for a change in Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 345/2013 of the European Risk Fund and Regulation (EU) No. 346/2013 of the European Social Resource. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson were absent from the hearing. This is in accordance with the opinion of Rafn Rafen Ólafsson, an officer of the Committee. Under countless printed page. Councilmen Bjarni Jónsson, Jóhann Friðrik Friðriksson, Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, Birgir Þórarinsson, Nælíl Friðbertsson, Logi Einarsson, and Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u23	A respectable president. All I want to say is that I am happy to state that this particular law is going through the council. This may sound like some number tube of regulations, but what this involves is that investment funds set up in Iceland can define themselves as a venture fund. What I think may be even more important is that they can define themselves as investment funds that are doing good to society. Today, green innovations and increased social responsibilities are vital that these funds can be taken out and that they can have certain demands on them so that they can call themselves these things. Like I say, it sounded like a long rule soup, but it's a case that's doing good things, so I'll support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u24	A respectable president. We're paying sponsors to an enterprise, and on average it's amazingly good. It's been said again and again by the secretary of finance. And on average, the public has an amazingly good thing. That's what the secretary of finance says. But what do people do now? Yes, though the banks make money on the toes and the fingers, even if the companies make money on the toes and the fingers, there are companies that don't make money, they're losing. Businesses in the tourism sector, art, music, need sponsorship. However, it also takes young people who have taken disloyal loans with variable interest. As looks like tomorrow, will they lend up about what, $2,300,000 over the year? Only half the sponsors are being paid here. If we take it overall, it's only 10% because it's supposed to be five months. 2.5◯3 million are strong. So they're next, aren't they?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u25	Mr. President. It's just that you can't really skip coming up and calling attention to the fact that there's being a bill of directors, business support, and there's not one minister who's coming to vote for a diplomat. [[For example, consider: 19 major members of the body are in the house - to - house building.]] [[We can take it all together...]] And according to what I hear here from the hall, even the greater part doesn't care about playing that way that they make sure their speech is approved. They rely on the opposition. This is a matter that we support. But it's a disgrace, and if there's a minister around the TV and he's watching this, he's asked to get the hell down here. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u26	Mr. President. When you think the bottom is up, you keep digging. It was clear at the beginning of this terms that the government had removed all beautiful plans for the growth of the council; those that were so strangely spoken of in the first round of the administrations, although there was certainly more to it than to be said. I'd like to say one thing, to be absolutely clear, for the Minister of the Government, for the senators and for all interested people: this disrespect, that not one minister of votes, is not a disgrace to the government council members. It's a disgrace to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u27	Mr. President. Maybe we should just keep doing this a little bit, so the Ministers start picking up one by one. It's really embarrassing to watch some crazy Ministers when we're accepting government bill as the government says it doesn't care about the job in Covid's time. Such support can be shown by sitting here in the hall and joining us in accepting a matter. 18 member members of the board voted here earlier, and 18 members of the council were at odds, and 7 members of the government were away, while 21 were in charge. These proportions describe, like a whale. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson said, contempt for the public we're supposed to serve, contempt for the people whose government is to operate as an agent, disrespect to the Council, and all the works of the government as well. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u28	A respectable president. I'm glad to see one of the other ministers growing into the hall, but this is, of course, part of a larger image, that now we're doing the catering bill, but today it was found that, in view of the climax. The secretary of finance couldn't come in here at the council and deliver the bill of resistance last week, so there's no chance that the bill will be delivered from the council until one day after the election week. The strength will not return until many weeks, if not months. That ministers can't even show the people who's been supporting the respect of being here with us in the hall and voting on this matter - it's a half-admirable continuation of what I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u29	A respectable president. The Ministers seem to pick up one by one, so if we just talk long enough today, they'll all come. It was 18:18 earlier, sort of leveled - but it's not right, I forgot to vote. Then it would have been 19:18, so I guess I'll have to correct it. But this shows black and white how the government handles its own business.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u30	President. Ministers are members of Parliament, also taking position in councils as members of Congress. There's been one to two ministers every time someone from the government comes in and lets them have some extra time to run up here. I think it's suggested that some council members come here and explain to us why they're so few. Then maybe there'll be two ministers, and it'll be grown up, hopefully, once people have cleared up the case here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u31	Mr. President. It is not unusual for us to comment on the need for a voter here. However, I must take that cup and drink it because I believed that the vote would be at hand. 14:30 and I gave this information to my advisers, and I know that my team members of the advance team and the left movement gave the best information, so there's no more to say. But there it is. It is clear that the Ministers also have to care for their duties, are loaded down, and planned to attend here one by one. 14:30, i.e. Those who ate other tables were not elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u32	Mr. President. However, it is very special, to say the least, that no Minister has voted on this important case, I just want to ask Mr. President if there are other forms of communication relevant to government and government positions or even ministers and members of Congress, because the rest of us don't need to rely on the problem. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, he's getting messages on our phone, so let's act on that. And if it's not like that, I pray to the highest. It's the first thing to get used to being used to being used by the Ministers to get text messages, too, like the members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u33	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the environment and transport committee in case of No. 169, which is a bill to correct the change in telecommunications laws, telecommunications laws, and the law on the investment of foreign workers in business. The committee has discussed the matter, and a committee is facing it. The bill suggests some changes. The key elements are to have detailed communications agencies on risk management and management, the implementation of legislation on the location of the systems and equipment in telecommunications networks, and the application of national and national security services. It is suggested that a minister be able to bind foreign investments to employment conditions in order to prevent it from threatening national security, in violation of national rule and public security. The committee even talked about it. on the global review of telecommunications, and on that point, the Ministry agrees that with this bill, there is an important step to improving the law on public interest and national security of communications. However, more part thinks that it is right to have several facts waiting for a complete review. Then the Committee discussed legislation on emergency and security exchanges where the Committee received indications that legislation on emergency and security needs to be established. The majority agree with the viewpoint and direct it to the Ministry to consider the matter. In addition, the committee discussed localities, but with the bill, a minister is granted permission to state the location of equipment and communication networks in certain cases. There was evidence that the law was too extensive and that it was better to speak of obligations in law. The majority do not agree with that viewpoint and point out that the problem is that valid obligation is legalized, for it is a technology that is constantly changing and in rapid development, as well as that which the minister's authority is clearly solely limited. Mr. President. I would like to refer to the Committee's opinion of the majority of the committee, in the Strategies Committee, and what it says on the location-free equipment and telecommunications section: It's the same thing as 2 st. The bill can require that communication systems and equipment in communication networks, which are considered important for public and national security, and is essential for the effectiveness or control of national communications within the country should be placed in Icelandic jurisdiction. This is a requirement that a minister have received reviews from a remote agency and a state police officer. The Regulation can also require that such equipment and systems be handled in Icelandic jurisdiction, including the oversight and control of the activity and the state of communications networks. The committee's meetings gave a view that the law was too open and researched whether it contained too extensive a legislation of the legislature to the minister. It would be easier to recommend a legal location. The committee does not agree with that viewpoint, pointing out that such a duty is being legally legalized. A critical reason may be that communication devices and systems relating to the activity or control of communications are located outside Icelandic jurisdiction, both economic, financial, and technical. The use of foreign - service clouding services is an example of this. Special requirements for such excretion, scr. 2 mg. 1st par. The bill. Legalization is required to place a specific communication device, a system, or their operation in Icelandic legal history, which may limit the availability beyond that requirement and require a moderate standard. On the other hand, the situation may arise from a risk assessment, even in shame, that it is unavoidable to resort to a system of instruments of communication, systems, or business to be placed in Icelandic jurisdiction, as it would protect considerable public interest or national security. The basis for such a decision was a risk assessment that included a clear conclusion on the location criteria. As these risk factors constantly change as a result of factors such as technological progress, cross-reactivity, and reflexes, legalisation of the cut-off would be made, extremely difficult, and effective changes. For one of the reasons mentioned above, it may be considered more convenient to recommend a minister's authorization and implementation in a Regulation rather than to be legalized. The Commission then believes that the Regulation is in such a way that the scope and limitations of the obligation are clearly set out. The Commission is entitled to be a problem with a minister's licence, which should be considered only on the basis of a thorough risk assessment and when agreeing with all the main economics. The majority suggest several changes in the bill, and there is a change in the separation of specific factors in the communication industry - I went through the section on the assessment of locality. For the Committee, the terms 1 and 2 mg were criticized. 1st par. would be too general. It involves the operation of communications companies, and it is important that they be clearly defined and not more extensive than the need for public and national security. Extremation requirements are primarily important in the activities of a communication company essential for the effectiveness, protection or control of communications, i.e. Service and network that interfere with communication networks or telecommunications This is adjusted for harmony. The Committee found criticism of their obligation to telecommunications companies. 2 mg. that if there is a threat of public interest or national security, an enterprise should take such measures as possible. With reference to a moderate thought, the majority of the object feels that a change in 2 mg is appropriate. 1st par. The bill makes it possible for a telecommunication company to determine for themselves how to deal with the imminent risk of management or telecommunications, and on the other hand, these factors were broken. Second, the majority contributes to changes in assessments, testing and costs. The bill provides permission for a remote exchange agency to demand that an external agent make checks and testing if a communications company meets the requirements of the law on the security and effectiveness of communications networks and communications services. The cost of assessment and testing should then be paid by the respective communications companies. The committee's study made strong comments to the directive and its wording. Nowhere would there be a limit to the extent or cost of such observation. In view of the greater part, further consideration is needed in preparing donations or political management of a bill for a comprehensive communication process, and thus contributes to the removal of the components. Then the majority suggest a change in the terms of the bill on government fines. C-St. 4. is a new transmission agency to lay down administrative guiltys for violating the obligation to provide the Agency with the right, adequate and updated information according to the specific regulations of a remote agency. The government's fine can study up to 4% of the total annual business rate. The committee found great criticism of the law. The financial value would not be supported in any of the debates as well as that of government guilty as criminal laws and would therefore have to make a rich demand for the clarity of such a decision, but it would be clear that the timing of information would be adequate or justified according to an individual's judgment. It was also noted that government guiltys are not standard surveillance measures and that it would be reasonable to make a day's contribution to the information desired rather than government guilty, which is already under government law on telecommunications. Among other things, in view of the demands on the logic of penalties, the greater part feels that the legalization of this law will be postponed and a further consideration will be provided for the preparation of contributions or political treatment of a bill for a comprehensive communication process. Other points point to a detailed discussion and a change in the development of the majority of the existing section of the Committee. The majority suggest that the bill should be agreed with the changes made. Under the committee, the writer of this article, Njálri Friðbertsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, and Linikika Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u34	A respectable president. I want to ask you why. A member of the council for the work that has taken place in this case and the need to do it at this point. It is stated in the Committee of the Environment and Transport Committee that it is not time to perform a number of legal reforms, in which a global review of communications is imminent, is likely to enter the Parliament at the end of this month. I want to ask you why. A member of the council to see if the bill is on its way because nothing has been seen in consultation, but under the law it should be published and given a notice period of at least two weeks. Then I'd like to ask who. A member of Parliament on the issue of failure to take into account the U.S. Association's explicit comments on the need for a remote agency to be authorized by government fines due to violations of telecommunications. The agreed regulations are taken out of the bill because of the complaint of communications companies, but nothing is done with this very clear statement by the United States Contestance Commission, which states this absolutely necessary for the benefit of consumers, the entire public of the country. I want to ask you why. Senator on this last year's counter-sponsored.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u35	Mr. President. We're assuming that the Code, or the big radio, will be accepted into the committee, of course first into the council, this month, I think. It's a shame it hasn't been completed last year. I've been that way. It was important that they finish, and it's important that we finish it at this council. The bill we're talking about here is more about the crisis of communications services and communications networks, this is a security issue. In general, that's what the bill is about. We, in the greater part, refer to certain factors into the big bill on communication law, which is for careful and careful coverage of the points there. Somewhere, these matters had to be misunderstood too. We'd have been able to take into account this big case, the Companies you've previously been on an environmental and transport committee. But we thought it only natural that this security issue that we are discussing here, which turns toward the shock - free communication services and communications networks, would be completed in this way. Then we can take even more careful comments on the issues of competitiveness, consumer security, and such factors that have been referred to as integrating with consumer security and such factors. Thus, we began to address these key issues, as it were. This was our approach to the work of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the first answer. I don't quite understand why it would be necessary then to complete this buttb, where a lot of reporters actually said that this work would be done in this way and that it would be more likely to complete the full reexamination of the communications laws instead of going into these pieces now where the law is not retrospective, as is done in the majority list. In fact, the more part is to speak against his own opinion of work when he drives this case without cause, if you look at the situation as it is today, where the sales of Milu are in the inspection of the Contestant that will not complete that opinion until the end of the summer or the next fall, God knows when. You see, the answers of the people selling Migraine have come very late and very bad, and the legalization will be delayed at that point. [[The president calls.]] Why, then, do you have this rush when you think it's unnecessary in other things? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u37	Mr. President. The issue we are discussing is a matter of national security, public good, and national security. We may not have a clue today, but such matters may occur in the weeks that are related to what we are discussing here. It is true that the Contestance Commission has not told us exactly how to deal with the situation. I guess we'll find out, then, we'll hear it from the Contestant. But this case is just a general law that has to do with the traumatization of communications services and communications networks at the base, a national security jam. Then we take what is involved in consumers and other matters, the competition factor in the review of the Contestance Commission, fines, administrative fines, or day tickets, or which way we go, in the big case I expect, as I told you earlier, to enter the council within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u38	Mr. President. Despite not being on the Environment and Transport Committee this period, I, like other members of the Parliament, have followed this issue since the summer of this planned sales in Milu, and have associated very closely with the dilemma between the board of directors when trying to get revised communications through the council. This was one of these matters that the government held that was pushing with the help of some classes. But this caused opposition elsewhere, possibly because it occurred in some horse shops, it was estimated to be a number of cases that each class was to cover rather than look at. As a result, the law was not revised, and here we are. I'd like to take a closer look at that question as a question. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgaóttir requested the need. Criticism comes from interesting sources and from many sources, from the management board, from within the telecommunications agencies, from the partners that should best be recognized and should continue to keep these things clear. Criticism, among other things, is based on the lack of total legislation, the absence of overall policy, and the time for policy development. Again, we find that it cannot be desirable for us to face up to any ideas about selling and here we are building a special piece of law around it rather than the other way, where commercial gains fall under law. I'd like to ask, just so I can understand it better, because now the case comes for payment tomorrow: why this hurry? What exactly is that? Then I want to add and ask why. A senator whether he was concerned, in view of his attempt to drive this through without the overall vision and overall policy, of the vast authority given to the minister and administration without access - the vast sources, in view of the lack of policy here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u39	Mr. President. In the opinion of the committee, regarding the authority of a minister, we proselytize that they should be handled with caution. There, rich interests need to be placed, which involves certain aspects, such as national security and public good. Hence, a minister needs to be very careful of their viewpoints, and this is very important. I can totally agree with this criticism, since I was among the members of the council members who wanted to finish this case in June last year and stressed it strongly. It's a big, important case, telecommunications, and it's been at NATO this four years. You will be well acquainted with all the discussion that has to do with this in countries and countries, which has to do with communication security. It defines all nations as national security. It's basically the foundation of everything. I totally understand criticism that has to do with the idea that there is a certain roundabout in the matter and that can be discussed. But then I can also say, "We want to finish this show. " As I said before, there may be some new parties, new contracts that have some way of dealing with this. We will never know in advance how things will work out and what will happen. In the event that we don't do the big thing for the summer, if the situation came up, which we never know, and from past experience, we know it, you'd always want to have finished this part, so I'll talk about it openly. Completeing this aspect of the matter is of utmost importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for the opposition and for being honest in the situation, I remember exactly the struggle. A senator on this matter. But the senator's final words may be a shock to my next question: Could it be that these pieces are being taken into consideration even if they do not run out of security? I'm in the middle of the fact that this isn't the end of the situation. It just makes sense to a certain kind of smell associated with this sale. We have much more complex and broader security issues, national interests, when it comes to telecommunications. Could it be that the shortcut is this because, deep down, it is a danger, in the mind of the three administrations, that they will not be able to cross the telecommunications laws? Not this spring, not next year, and possibly not later? Then we come to what I'm also worried about -- that doesn't mean I'm not too worried about this matter -- and that's my consumer friendship. This is a huge consumer interests. It's left behind now because it's supposed to be over. Is it possible that we are removing our teeth from a complete telecommunications system? I'd like to hear some speculation. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u41	Mr. President. As I said in the last answer, it's just exactly what we have to do with what we're dealing with here, and it's on the bill what we're dealing with. The consumer security was part of the Code, or a large telecommunications bill. All I can say is, we have to finish the big case by the end of the council. To be honest, I have a lot of faith that it will work out. I think we're right down there, I think the senators and the government are generally aware of the importance of the end of that matter, the big case involved in the telecommunications Act. As I said before, this is a matter of principle. These are the basics of every nation today, and in the fourth industrial revolution, as seen there, the development of communities actually goes on. I continue to talk openly about the fact that we can't help but finish the case before the end of June, and I will personally add my weight to the scales to make it work and be successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u42	Mr. President. It's interesting to read the bill's report because it's like the Ministry was playing Madame in Hamburg. This matter was set forth in a whisper of spirit, and we called it the Milu. It was supposed to be over in one week before Christmas, because Milli was being sold. But the bill does not mention Milan, it is spoken as if there was a general change in law that people had suddenly thought would have to be done. As mentioned earlier, we wouldn't have been in this position if the government groups hadn't prevented one another from completing the big telecommunications bill last spring. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because it doesn't matter if we try to talk about it, this case is in place because of the Migle sale: Isn't it that the legal entity is already made, that whatever changes this bill does on the law, it will have no limited effect on Siman's business with Milu? Then we come back to the question, What's the point of this Moustian bill, if it doesn't cover business with Milu?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u43	President. We've been discussing the big bill since the last meeting. That's right, and it's very important to get caught. We've been through it a few times. Of course, with the Migraine matter, or what the senator mentioned, we are setting a general law on things. As I came in here before, that might just create a situation, we just don't have a clue that we had to take care of these laws. It is natural that there is some legislation behind what we are dealing with as much as this. If I recall correctly, the deal Míla made with the government, the state, is for two years. Then we decided that we were really going to finish it by then, I'm just hoping it would. But we always want general laws about things. In some respects, we in this legislation are dealing with what is stated in the contract, what we have seen from it officially, but I assume that then there are certain factors that may go to some extent into the big communication case, in the Code. But as I've been through here several times, we're just ensuring a general law on these things if there's any more examples of this, general legislation in the country. That's what we're sitting here must be done, putting things up like that. We are always dealing with things in general, making sure that there is a moderate value and all that goes with it, that there is a law of law to deal with material things like this. It's true that I fought very hard that the case would be finished last spring, in order to get my arms around these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u44	A respectable president. It is, in fact, in nature, that if this bill becomes a law, it is a common law of law. However, the bill is highly specific because it will result from the sale of one company, but this general legislation will cover anything other than the firm's agreement, which was the cause of the bill. That's what we don't seem to be scratching our head here today; the position that the bill serves all other purposes, but exactly what it has been asked to serve. I wonder, because we what. The senator is both realists, and we realize that the big radio talk will not possibly run out at this council, rather than at the last two, whether we should, rather than finish this little one now, to keep it from us, to refer it to a committee after 2nd. I'll have him on board if we have to approach him, if the telecommunications laws end up, if it was the most discreet precaution in the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u45	Mr. President. Now I'll definitely repeat for the third or fourth time that we're making laws to deal with it if similar cases arise, or something in connection with these legislation, which we have no idea of what might happen. I think the ones who are sitting here at the council are often dealing with the reality of the day. There are many situations that laws do not cover, and they must deal with them. That's what we, the legislature, are a lot of people dealing with, just in the general matter of Congress. I'm not going to say that these legislation or large radio programs cover everything that may arise in the coming years. But somewhere, you have to start and finish your assignments. If we were to postpone this now, we would have a particular problem that has to do with the fundamental interest issues involved in the traumatization of communications networks and systems, our infrastructure. I think it's normal that we finish the case and we've already responded to the situation that might arise.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u46	President. I recommend a committee study with a change in proposal from 1st of the Environment and Transport Committee. Those who make the adjustment are the ones here. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. The first smaller section considers it important to make changes in communications laws, communications laws, and the laws on the investment of foreign workers in employment, in terms of communication services and communications networks, but considers it necessary to also ensure consumer interests in accordance with the content of the 57th stanzas. in the bill to a new form of communication presented twice during the last term, but the three governmental groups that make up the present government failed to cooperate. Milu's leading sales carried extensive and necessary communications systems from Shimanum to Milan, which then added to the network of communications owned by Mila. A vertical integration within one company is, therefore, much more than has been seen in the Icelandic telecommunications market since the creation of Mila. Further and larger such integration is possible and in the immediate future, and even more likely, since two national telecommunications companies, vision and Nova, have already sold parts of their infrastructure and one of them publicly declared plans for further sales of such devices. It is reported that part of the Siman Convention in Milu to Aridian is a 20 - year contract for the use of Simans of the Team. The agreement may be that it is a vertical market integration, despite the different holdings of Shimanium and Mil. This view is presented in the decision - making committee of communications and mail No. 3/2021. In other words, Mr. President, this has been discussed by the local authorities. This concern has been flaunted. The phone Union has been working under special reconciliations with the 2013 Contestance Commission and 2015 due to decisions, judgments and charges due to the misuse of the company's market authority, but the results of the Contestant Commission were that firms within the kit have been violated by the principle of competition. In view of this, and because further communication efforts are imminent, the 1st lower portion, in view of the public interest and consumer security, is considered to be waiting to introduce a bill from the bill to a whole-scale communication law submitted to the last two legislative conventions, which are mainly about consumer protection in this respect; center on competitive matters, competitive rights, which are primarily on the protection of consumers. The evidence of the Ministry received by the Environment and Transport Committee on the review of the terms to which the smaller part would like to add but that the overall review would not be repetitive, the 1st memory of things like this can apply to the whole bill and all the issues we deal with today. For example, we were discussing the case with an authority official. paritaprevir The Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, for example, has already been signed by Milla's contract with Ardian and laws, whether in the future an overall review or the current bill, not backward. It's the nature of the law that they're not retrospective. A global review of telecommunications is a future act that is uncertain of the timing of the return of Congress. The claim that it will arrive at the end of this month is getting quite low in view of the fact that the bill is not introduced into government confidentiality. The differences that took place in the processing of the bill during the last two Parliaments, in terms of laws other than the one in smaller things, will now be proposed to add and prevent the payment of the total law, can easily happen again. We heard it in a talk. In the spring, the lead-off can completely return to the point where the overall review can't be through. Why do I say that? Yeah, because we've seen it happen twice before. There is no guarantee that it will not happen again. Therefore, both are uncertain whether the bill for total law will return to the council as well as whether it will be realized. So, what position are we in? The first minority believes that it may be harmful to let the safety of Icelandic consumers deal with communications markets and, in particular, cross-cutting integrated communication companies, be affected by the efforts of the Allied Council to cope with a completely different situation when they are sold out of the country. The advantage would have been that there had been a complete communication legislation before Shiman's sales at Migraine were reported to be evidence of that event at a time of about two years ago. This sales of government had been flaunted long ago. Now that there is a sign of an even further integration and integration, the lawgiver, who we are here, must respond by action to protect the public, to protect the consumers of the country. This should be taken into account by the government and the Generals, and this should involve not only efforts to protect national and communications security but also consumer security. In this case, however, any timing of the current sale of Miglu should be taken immediately. The terms of a 1st smaller section suggest the addition of a previous element to an overall communication process are based on a 78.g. Directive (EU) 2018/1972 called the Code. The regulations discuss cases in which enterprises with considerable market value separate their access network from other activities by themselves. According to 3 mg. The provisional administration centre should evaluate the impact of separation along with other commitments that the company may offer together with separation and evaluate whether there is any reason to revise the relevant agreement on the separation. I'm not going to raise the motion here. It's on the committee's opinion itself. But I'd like to discuss just what we're suggesting because the goal of competition is to promote market competition in business, and this is for consumers, in the interests of the public. Contestants are set to counteract harmful competition and competitive restrictions and to facilitate new rivals'access to markets. Why do we want to make sure that this is what we think about when new laws are being created? Yes, because of the small market competition, or a huge party that echoes everything, the irrefutable failure to be the source of prices and consequences for services to the common people, thus harming consumer interests directly from caring for that aspect. To assist the government to enforce this law, we have an entire organization, the Contestant Board, which has the authority to enforce regulations and bans. The competitiveness department also decides to take action against the competitive inhibitory behavior of an enterprise and, as shown in the Committee and in my talk earlier, the Contestance Commission has repeatedly had to interfere with telecommunications, including Shiman and Mil. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Environment and Transport Committee had the guidance of the Contestant Board in the case we are considering today, as it were, to guide both governments and, of course, to provide information on where there is danger and what might be done rather than what must be done to ensure that the authorities have the tools needed to ensure the welfare of the public. The review of the Contestant Commission points out that, yes, there is a national telecommunications agency, and the bill on the topic under discussion at last given a tool to fight the violations of competitive law and EEA organizations to be carried out by communications agencies. The bill had the authority to the telecommunications agency welcomed by the Contestant. It suggests that this was a tool to place a government ticket on a telecommunications company that at least due to violations of obligations to provide adequate and correct information. It should be noted that when the sale was announced to Aridian, the Contestance Commission began to investigate the Shiman sales of Milan, and the last time we received information for the sale, it immediately called out for information. The telephone, or the seller, had not yet provided the necessary information that had been called after a long time. To date, a remote agency has not had any legal rights to lay on government fines due to violations of telecommunication companies in proportion to their economic strengths as the Contestant is achieved, but only fines could be laid up to a certain maximum financial level, regardless of the financial status and economic strength of the company. Has the maximum value been 10 million. K. and we'll see that there's not a large sum of money for huge parties on a telecommunications market in Iceland. The Contestant Commission notes in its review that guilty warrants as a percentage of the successful enterprise, which falls into violations of the relevant laws and regulations, are intended to have a general and specific warning effect on the market and thereby increase the value of enterprises due to the rules established by the lawgiver. In a comparable way, fines have relatively low peak roofs, as in the case of a telecommunication firm, i.e. 10 million. K., not to have such an effect. What does this mean, Mr. President? This means that by not counting on the other part to keep it in, but dropping it out of the bill, on the basis of the possibility that in the future a new bill, a global review, and that this was not logical enough - it simply means that it is being weakened from this surveillance and being weakened by a telecommunication agency to intervene when companies, large parties on the market, are breaking competitive laws. And what will happen then? How can we react when the majority of the material here speaks of a lack of logical support by something being suggested in a government bill? Yes, Mr. President, you can respond by doing your job on the committees. This can be managed by a wide range of support and explanations and arguments in a committee meeting because it is called a legal explanation. But what happens? The real danger around here by Christmas is over. We didn't have to do this bill in a week, and the more part of an environment and transport committee fell into place when it comes to protecting the public in the country, afraid to keep it stressful, and we just want to wait on anything that could possibly be unpleasant as regards the competitive rights for consumer rights, consumer protection and consumer security. They do not put into such activities and allow it to wait, let it go to the roulette between the government parties that cannot get along, and have not been able to agree on the last two legislatures to complete the task. The three members of the United States have a large part here at the council. If it hadn't been for their bullshit differences, the bills would have run out. There's no doubt about it. You wonder why the three government categories, the greens, the forwards and the Independence Party, are so desperate to compete in Iceland. Why do consumers hate them so much? Why do they do all they can to tease this case with possible protection against the national public except for the national security? It's not trivial. I support the purpose, but I don't understand why it's not possible to deal with the point that it is necessary to set up this earlier command in 57. g., and goes by the name of the Code, and, on the other hand, to ensure logical support for taking certain actions, to provide a remote agency with a means of doing what it is supposed to do by law. I agree that it is important that laws be clear, that the penalty is clear. Oh, my God! We are the lawgiver, and we can make it clear, but there was no willingness to do so on the committee, no attempt to do so, rather than any will to make any adjustment of 57. It's just that it was taken as a hell of a truth that you could wait because laws weren't repetitious. Why wait to have a full review of such important options? I look forward to seeing a possible bill for a full reexamination of telecommunications and will certainly do everything I can to ensure that the work there will be done well. I hope the board of directors and the board of directors at the moment. The Environment and Transport Committee will try to promote early access to the bill, if it is intended to come in, so that we can correct exactly the possible bait that may become on that bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u47	Madam President. The treatment of this bill has been somewhat unusual. I would like to start by drawing up the time line of this case and perhaps extending myself a little further, because there are so many things here that show the sleep pattern that this government especially has shown in these cases, but many of the previous ones have shown. We can just start where it all started, when the phone was private in 2005. It's been 16 years since these infrastructures of Iceland's telecommunications system came into the hands of a private member. There is no frame around the security factor listed here. During the last term, there was an increase in pressure, an increase in investors'interest in buying communications wood in the country. This appears to be part of an international development where e.g. International investment funds see good opportunities for accessing funds in telecommunications services, including the U.S. in various lands. This Ardian treasure that's going to buy Mia is an example of this. It was immediately 2020, in September, that the public could know that this was imminent when they learned that the phone had been asked by investors that they were interested in buying Miami. Six months later, the turning point turned out that the show sold an inactive wood owned by that company and then rented it back from the investors who bought them with a long-term contract, similar to what is going on between Shiman and Milan. Since July last year, the public hears through reports that a number of investors are preparing an invitation in Milan. I'm going to assume that governments are at least as quick to read the news as the public. In such matters, we can even find out things a little earlier when we're talking about national important infrastructure as government, at least in our own words, trying to get a hold of it. This means that during the last winter, from the time the telephone got queries in September 2020 until a number of investors prepared a purchase offer in Milu in July 2021 - this date frame was framed in all last councils with a review of the Kurd so-called bill for a comprehensive telecommunication, which is the key nail that would have had to be available at the time of the purchase. This was not even the first time that this case was discussed at the Council. This was the second legislature in a row where members of the board were able to get in enough trouble for one another to end the matter here at the council. I think it matters, Madam President, to keep it in order that it was not in the smaller part that prevented the matter. True, there were things that we wanted to move to a better source, and we were making an interview, but that conversation never started because the government groups were just holding it together. It is worth keeping in mind this sleepfulness of the government when we compare it with the very truth the council was scheduled for. Then, in October of last year, games began to get all worked up, and October 23 is reporting the phone about the sale. At the same time, the minister's office is being taken care of during one of the longest developments of the republican era. Then it's Friday, December 10th that the bill that we're discussing here today has a clear view of the day. In this room, the presidents and members of the council have been informed that negotiations are held at Shimann and Aridan, hoping to be caught by some landing. But if not, it would be very hard to finish this bill no later than the next week. 1st. is here Monday, December 13, with the view that the case ends on Friday, December 17, no later than that. This was not necessary, since the agreement between state, Ardian, and Shiman was reached on terms related to the Milan sale, which I believe is an account for both the members of the committee's list of more parts and smaller parts in this case. The agreement was established on December 14, the day after the hearing was given, on the day of the first meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee on this matter. Then one at the board of directors went crazy, and it went crazy to just breathe in the abdomen and realize that there was just no reason to finish this case with the required river script. But somehow, the communications in the management team were not fast enough, so it was decided at this first meeting of the environment and transport committee to send it out for reviews every year until December 17. There we are on Tuesday, December 14, sending out a case for review every 17th of December. It is proper to review a book as members of the United States, Pirata, and the Committee's Environment, where we wrote protests to this trial, by permission of the president: ▪ The members of the Union, Pirata, and Environment and Transport Committee restorations would like to object to the procedure for nationalally important matters, changes in communication laws, and air travel on the other hand. Counsellors must ensure the professional political treatment of matters proposed on their behalf and despite two months since the election was completed by the election at the end of September when the beginning of the council was two weeks from the beginning of Congress until it was proposed. The General Assembly is responsible for the safety and benefit of the public in its activities and is unacceptable to the development of its work to prevent the members of the General Assembly from fulfilling its important tasks. Then there are also protests to the time given to the handlers to make comments on the issue. The problem is, Madam President, it just went on. So that was the first meeting of December 14th. Then we received a reviewer at the Committee meeting to explain his comments on December 16, a day before a deadline, which is also to be considered. Then people realized that they needed to add people to their report list. They would have to add business representatives who would have something to say about foreign investments, III. section of the bill. It was decided to invite the firms of industry, the organizations of industry, and some other responsible organisations to enter their resignations on a day's notice. There was the agreement between the government, Shiman and Ardian, but it was still made as if it were a reason to complete this case in less than a week, and interest groups were offered the opportunity to make a statement in one day. It says, Madam President, this is not a procedure we can accept. Then, fortunately, the more part of the environment and transport committee began to breathe only in the abdomen, and Christmas passed, and between Christmas and New Year, the committee came together and agreed, in view of the fact that it would not be necessary to complete the case before the end of the year, to send the case back to its discussion once every three weeks, which is the normal time for such a case. It is not surprising, then, how much effort was involved in this matter but how long it was kept. And as we were discussing here in the past, all that is in this case is what is expected by two primes from the administration of this month and the next, on the other hand, the bill of the university, industrial, and innovation ministers, the total telecommunications, the case that twice has crossed between the administrations, but we hope to be done now, and the prime prime minister's bill about the criticism of foreign society's investment in socially important internal structures. Of course, it's a case that would have had to speed up in the last winter when it became clear that investors had begun to look at this communications interface in Iceland. The frame was clearly necessary, but that bill should not be seen until March, so that the intertranslation situation could develop is III. The chapter of this bill with a set of regulations that have to do with the investment. There may be no need to repeat all too much of what we covered in reply about the need for this bill. It is presented as an answer to the Migraine sale but, of course, somehow does not cover all the details of the Migraine sale, since it is not repetitive. Themissary of Milan took place last year, actually before the Minister's bill arrived at the council. Additionally, there is a gap that has the law for 15, 16 years since these structures were privateized. So you can ask yourself, and I just quote the reasonings of the greater part against that, for example. ... totakeaname57.gr. The code, of the separation of an integrated enterprise on its own initiative, the majority of the segments feel the need not to submit such a change as the extension of a bill to an overall change of distance is planned for this month. In addition, such laws would not be reused when making contracts. The same line of reasoning might simply postpone all of this, since it will not be redirected to the Milli and it will be about a law soon to come by counsellors. It may be helpful to include just something that was discussed in the committee work that may be related to the Migraine sale only indirectly. This is the importance of having not just a powerful network of communications in the country but others. At a meeting of the Committee, representatives came from, including Energy exchange, linking, and light guide, each building a fiber - optic thread here and there, which is not lacking so much as to call in order to make another fiber - optic ring around the country. This is something that the government could consider, support, and even support. These are largely part of organizations owned by public sources, the Light Leader, and Power Control. The fiber - optic ring that these companies could make would be far more powerful and more secure than the 30 - year - old ring that NATO laid and Mila put on, just in comparison. Thirty years ago, the main cost of fiber - optic fiber was expensive. Not now. The NATO thread has eight filaments, the ring Míla has on it, but these members are laying on the ground these days strings, which often have up to 1,000 strands that have the capacity to supply what the old ring offers. This also counts with a double system that does not necessarily follow the same path. So we take an example of energy exchange, which is a company that the electric producers are involved in, the decision was made for Land activation and other sources of energy exchange not to rely on the Milu team for communications to activate but to build their own systems, which would also go further through areas that are most at risk of significant disasters. It may be especially the southernmost part of the country where there can be a great flood, a glacier. The Migraine cord lies south of the earth, while the energy exchange cables north of them are likely to be negligible at a time when, because of natural disasters, both strings would be cut apart, and although someone could do so, communication would not be disturbed. This is also important in parts of the country that have just reached the limit of endurance. The system's power, e.g. In the West Sea, construction does not offer much data - consuming activity simply because the cord on the West Seafjord is almost read-est. These are factors that may be more important to the committee when the big radio ends up because it is not only about active competition, which has positive consequences to consumers but also about security. It's not just about making certain signals for the operator but about creating a competitive environment where there will be enough operators to ensure activities in most cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u48	Madam President. I think that's what I've been talking about at some committee party earlier, and I'm starting to think that you're pretty finished with the case like that. But I just wanted to return to the final part of my talk. A senator on the construction of the fiber - optic system and fiber - opticization and the potential for this position with relatively little money. Haraldur Benediktsson led a group who reported a very interesting report to the minister of State, that I recall in March last year, which deals precisely with this, what can be done for very little money in itself, or maybe less than a billion, by linking these bottlenecks in the optics system and using energy exchanges and what is available today, to actually achieve great success, and to create a whole other complaint in the optics of the country. You're right. A member of the Parliament suggests that the NATO cable that was in use in 1990 or 1991 has eight threads, and the Atlantic Union has checked some five, and then three into domestic use, reminds me. The possibilities we have here are incredible, and this little investment over a billion could actually change that country. Looking forward to life in the country and the fourth industrial revolution and trade and other things, I don't think there's anything else that could be done for just as little money. I just wanted to come up and thank you very much that we'll ever have a chance in this chair to discuss this because to me it's just one of the big cases, a communication link that has to the tremendous possibilities we have there in companies of which the state has, and, of course, we need green energy to do good things in the fourth industrial revolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u49	Madam President. Yeah, I'm glad to hear that we're doing what we're talking about. A senator is both equally excited about the possibilities in the structure of a fiber - optic system around the country. It is true that the senator says that it takes very little to achieve much social gain in this and is actually thinking about whether or not. Mitochondrial formulations were responsible for the inhibition of structure. It came, for example. In an interview with Siman's presidents, they expected that it would even be developed faster under a new holding because the Siam Union could not put as much money into the infrastructure every year as the land of the party just because of what they have to do with shareholders. The question is, will this show us the entrance of the state through a telecommunication fund, e.g. could have delivered more in recent years. So the question remains for all the small areas of Milan that have been often built up by the nearby community, small areas that have not found their way to the top of the list of priorities when it comes to building up and being saved in Milan. It is a question of whether we can guarantee it properly or whether we need to continue, perhaps through any cooperation between the members of the party who are laying the other ring, whether we can make sure that it will be built up in very scattered areas, including those who do not respond to harsh financial costs of credit to shareholders but who do so to society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u50	Madam President. Thank you. It's very good for a member of the council for this discussion. It is probable that we are on top of three in the world regarding the optics and the homes. It's an Iceland light-related New Yorker. paritaprevir For the past few years, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson has been leading most of the way in which there are some 6,000 to 77,000 connections. And so, many of us have been interested in smaller places, villages and maybe 500 to 1,000 towns, and then we're hearing of even bigger towns, such as. The Western Islands, now located at a high level of 5,000. This has been a relatively slow development in fiber - opticization. There was an interesting discussion. A senator came in with regard to the sales of Milan, which has been announced that the foreign investor has a completely different thought behind his investment, perhaps rather than the phone. It's gonna be very interesting to watch. Then, just what we Icelanders are going to do about the possibilities for this investment - which I am pleased with. A senator spoke of an investment that is relatively insignificant in the context of things and what it can do for us and simply change things in many areas. I'm always here to discuss these matters with you. A senator whom we may rarely get the opportunity to do so in this chair. However, these are the things that determine how the land develops and the bustans. I'll talk about it like a dog. A senator, and hopefully most of the people sitting here, and hopefully we'll take the communications business inside an environment and transportation committee. Let's just hope we get a few weeks to discuss this. Then I could've taken a little talk about the networks, contacts, and then Singa on the ice. But this is a very interesting and pleasant discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u51	Madam President. Maybe just a few words in the end. I think what we need to consider in the Environmental and Transport Committee, especially about the development ahead of time other than Mila in the coming years, is whether the experience in Milu's operations in recent years allows us to have the building of the network of communications in the hands of parties on the market perhaps put the structure into a particular straitjacket. That the pure and bare market leaders are not always the right thing, especially in a case such as this, since we can mention one small town after another and just up to a big urban area like the Western Islands and all the rural areas, all farms that are connected and poorly connected, and only in great trouble that can once connect Mentor to his kids or private banks to settle accounts at the end of the month. The structure of a fiber - optic system is something that we might feel we should be able to do just one, two, and three, that we should be able to do just two years of national action and that this whole country would be light - related. But that has not been the case. After the discussion and, in particular, from all of Milli's leading owners, I suspect that part of the reason is that just plain company on the market is not the form that can provide such social projects at the same short time as we would like to sit here in this hall not considering things from crowns and pennies but social value as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u52	A respectable president. I think it's the kind of work that we're doing here that we're watching a textbook example of how not working on the legal process. I believe the government's method of design primarily shed light on how badly the last term was new. For the sake of the government itself, a bill to a new universal law has been submitted and brought to nothing. An authority made it clear and thoroughly aware that the bill as it is before the council did so well, but it did not change my opinion that we are looking at certain pieces, which first came on the program in direct contact with the Milu sale, the sale I used a probe, but some particular articles that were to be looked out, seemed to be able to act outside the interests which were to be protected, but others were not taken by, forgotten, or felt inadequate. Under it were all the laws that concern consumers and that one seems to be competitive. Now, when this bill is not about that sale at all, and does not have to be finished with that sale, it should still go its way, and the sale will still take place with the premonition that it is for treatment in other places than the Council. Nevertheless, we receive these pieces instead of a bill that embraces the wide range of global interests below. So, apparently, it's started with a bill in relation to a contract. Instead of taking into account the existing legislation, Icelandic, we are in the position of building a Icelandic law code in the context of a certain contract. It's an unhealthy ideologies, and I'd like to say it's low for the legislature. The legislation should be general; the legislation should give the tone for society, not so that the Council will arise in the event of a case. Madam President. We're looking at a bill that handles changes in telecommunications laws, on the laws on foreign business investments - all big business. The bill is small, a total of six articles, but in terms of fundamental interest. It's about a very important infrastructure. It has to do with national interests through communication, national security. It's about a foreign investment in employment and gives a minister, apparently, considerable power to influence it. The objective is good and important, strengthening national security and protecting public interests in the field of communication. We know that telecommunications and communications services are essential to social and economic activities and the strength of communications networks is of enormous importance, especially in countries such as Iceland, in our geographical situation. The North countries have these total laws that we need based on the construction of laws, the review of these total interests, and it is a real mystery to me that it was not considered as an issue of government in the last terms of the last term, all the last terms, to go to work to protect the interests of society. We know, for example. That the Atlantic Community, NATO, has concluded that there is a serious security hazard in developing society, virtually all activities in modern society, dependent on telecommunications. Therefore, Member States must ensure that important infrastructures, such as telecommunications, traumas, safety issues, can provide protection against natural hazards even when there is no other choice. In this context, this should be a particularly important work for governments. Nevertheless, we see this practice; it's both late in the years, and here we receive custom legislation, which takes some factors away but turns things aside. It's the way to fix that you have a wall on a chip and if you start to pluck one and one chip out, it affects the other one. That's why it's so bad. The argument is that the other, which is the total law, is definitely coming later. Underground, as I say, the public interest of communications and communications security, national security. All the points that should have led to this bill should have been given a careful presentation, on the part of a minister, here in this hall, a careful discussion at the council, but it hasn't been. I'd especially like to make a good decision that I've had a bad feeling. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Árnason, chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, and why. paritaprevir The cards were held well by Friðbertsson Fertbertsson, who only had an incompetent lack of cards. They did their job, they did their job well. The mystery, to my mind, is why this is not a matter of the government. The bill itself attributes the intention of reassigning a bill to a new telecommunication, which is then slightly changed from a previous donation and, in fact, a previous one. according to the regulations of this bill, the principles that are to be found here. So it's coming. I don't know if it's because the board doesn't think it's possible to get together in its own group, within its own ranks, by the fact that this route is gone, there's always missing in the conversation why this has been started and this is how it was won. It is attributed to the reason why this bill is presented in this suit now, why it is considered necessary. It is attributed to a reevaluation of the government's plans and equipment as a result of past and possible changes in the ownership of communications infrastructure, such as the investment of foreign agencies in infrastructure and communications services in the country. An authority said that this bill should be given because perhaps something could happen over the next few weeks and because telecommunications and communications services are the basis for many important activities, both economic and social, and that is absolutely true. However, it is the primary obligation of the government to take appropriate measures to ensure the security and reliability of communications in the country, and under which there are also consumers' reasons and competitiveness, with regard to national security and public interest, but there are appropriate measures based on global interest assessments and not just those that are selected, that I am not going to say in a random way but that there is a considerable lack of evidence for why some pixels are here but others, which are very important and essential, not. National security is under control, but I feel that the treatment is almost like it's making rules in a housemate. It is one of every government's primary obligation to ensure safety, to protect us, that we are protected from all the threats, whether by nature or by others, that cause the people of the land, the operating system, society's infrastructure, to harm. This is the basic role of the State, and in these matters, I need to take decisive and progressive steps based on clear ideologies, which I feel are missing here. I wondered, because I was seated on an environment and transport committee first in the fall, if it could be, when this case came in, that it was because it was a call on the interest of stakeholders, whom I had missed in the media, about running this case through. No, it's not. This is not just the case with a textbook example that says this is not the case. It is rather negative. I mention, for example, a reference from the One who made it clear that the bill's attention is directed to a relatively narrow field of communication and communication, that there is needed improvements, but it is noted that these points take only a small part of the factors that are even more relevant to the security and the traumatization of communications networks. So there seems to be a conclusion in the review that this is certainly a good addition and a good point, but I'm not going to say otherwise, but it's not the points that made a difference when it comes to the big picture of traumatic tolerance. That's at least the opinions of those who give this review - therefore, do not take on the fundamental factors that are even more important. Míla also returned a review, and it shows that because of the contract made, which fully guarantees all the main objectives of the bill until the decision has been made to put in force problems and general legislation, there is in fact no special reason to take this decision now. I took a review from a state police officer who, of course, is very focused on the security show. The bill refers to the lack of various relevant laws, e.g. on government authority to demand minimal quality equipment to protect yourself from trauma. It discusses data stored in clouds in foreign jurisdiction, etc. I'm not going to do it in a long way, but I think it must matter to argument, with so much emphasis placed on the greater part that it is here that the archdeceiver's position. The Marshal is, I think, in favor of this bill, but he's pointing out that if this is going to happen, then that goal is not up to him. When you read the comments of the Department of Transport and Division then, it seems itself the need to work this way and resolve it in this costume. It says, by permission of the president: The telecommunication for this memo was part of a government reassessment of plans and equipment since the past and possible changes in the ownership of communications wood...-◯ Then it says: A bill responsible for this memo was part of a government reassessment of plans and equipment followed by a possible change in the ownership of telecommunications. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: ▪ In view of an agreement between the state and Mila shortly after the bill's donation, there was no need to quickly resolve the situation. The competition was positive, and I think it matters, but the fines it was happy for have now gone out in this picture. It is not a secret to the position of the National Association of Employment, Industrial Association and Iceland's Business Committee, which make serious comments on the bill and its introductory development. In fact, these parties go so far as to suggest that they fall away from the bill, that it will be part of this overall review I'm talking about. When the review is read, the phone feels the same way that the matter should be canceled in this suit. The same views do we see in the review from a vision. A respectable president. When the restoration brought up this important and exciting matter, as I would like to say, the end point was that national security must be guaranteed by sales such as the one under consideration. So to be clear, I'm not opposed to the sale, I support international trade, but it doesn't change the fact that there are signs of a high level of fermentation in progress, e.g. For network security. The infrastructures below are increasingly part of our security and defenses, to be said, so that huge interests are at stake. We know that this is the largest foreign investment for about a decade, that I think, which involves the massive influx of currency to the country, and that needs to be awake. In this matter there are fundamental questions as I have constantly climbed on, e.g. National Security, the economy, the border between state and private conflict. The main thing in my mind is this: that the setting around these structures and this market is solid and complete and developed around some ideologies, that the market is efficient, that it is reasonable, and that the surveillance is solid. I think this may be considered in comparison to other infrastructure systems belonging to public agencies, e.g. The transport systems of electrical energy, and there we see that the holding alone, whether public or not, is not a check in my mind that the public interests are insured and that these include: For the reason I'm not afraid of this business. What I'm worried about and staying is what I experience as a failure of the government on this national security issue. All analyses, all coverage today, tell us the same story as regards the need to be awake. We live in a changing world because of technology. We need to be sure that our communication within the country and with the outside world will not work out and will collapse with one of the companies or their activities. I'd also like to mention Iceland's competitiveness in this context. We know the ever - increasing need for data transfer and increased dependability. This is an exchange that affects Iceland in the business world. This subject is exciting because there are so many things now and much less in the long run. I want to at the end of this report, as shown in a case, that in 2016 a national security policy was adopted, an important step. I can't see that much has happened on that case ever since on the part of the government. We know that since 2016, because the changes are so fast and that they are so intense, there have been a lot of evolution in telecommunications, in access to information, blocking information, which is a change that I'm not going to pretend to be an expert, there are so many points in which are floating. We know that information in today's world is more valuable today than it used to be, and that is an independent change. I'll give you an example of online security. We know that Icelanders and the North countries, and here I can mirror experience from my previous job, where Internet crime was spoken of, talk a lot about our being world champions in online access. But that only tells half of the story, for the other side is of course whether we are strong in Internet protection and security. The evidence tells us that it is not. So we're primarily among nations when it comes to accessing people, and I think the North countries have a top-list position of 5 and 6, but it's naive to think that there's enough to put up with the bioavailability, that's the most important safety defenses. Madam President. This is a huge case, and that is why it is being won in a way that differs from this one. I still haven't heard convincing answers about why we're not discussing the overall bill here in this hall right now, why you can't go on that road and also have the consumer enemy underneath, competitively, and all the factors that remain. I don't agree that this is the best way to protect a nation's interests. We know that this is a case in which the government had a problem with itself, or at least that's what happened to a man. I'm worried about the work done. I'm in favor of the sale. I don't understand this bill, and I'm going to end up with the same words I started: I strongly believe that here we are in a schoolbook example of how not to make laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u53	Madam President. I'm not going to repeat what happened earlier in the discussion, but I wanted to consider certain aspects of the subject. A senator entered his speech, such as the emergency transition, the governor, and the 911 line. It is shown in the opinion of the greater part that it is important to bring it into the large package, into the Companion, the communication laws. It's very important, I just wanted to bring it up, that these cases are well understood in the big bill. Hv. A senator merely introduced the national security talk. I've been here for the council since 2016. I'm sure this is what I'm talking about in general national security, which is in so many cases. It is the communications, transportation, electrical transport systems, and the fundamental factors in Icelandic society and the community at all levels. We've just been getting to know it, just in the last two days, how important it is that things are going well. We are even 40, 50 years behind neighboring nations in a national security legislation. The Swedes have their Riksintresse, the Norwegians have had their course, they took a new course just 2019 and improved. It is expected, I have been expressed, perhaps three countries in Europe that do not have a real national security law. It's just that way. And for us who are preparing the weather here, and the location, and the rest of it, it's extremely important that we learn about it. I'd like to agree with this, maybe get a little deeper coverage from the why. A senator with regard to the national security agency in general over the line and then answer in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u54	A respectable president. I've noticed this interest. A senator of this category, on the one hand, his interest in communication and the national security factor, and these are, of course, closely related issues. A senator came in. I sincerely agree with him on this location, where Iceland compares with other nations, and I also mentioned it, because as I say, I have noticed this interest in the senator, that I have felt that there has been little on the part of the government since 2016. It is very serious that after six years no more has happened. With regard to the national security fraud, precisely because of geographic status and weather conditions, I think the Icelanders now know it best and we respect nature, and we sometimes have reason to fear it, I ask: If it hadn't been a good idea, the local transport minister would have taken the initiative, or the prime minister, to discuss this matter, such as in the National Security Council, that the National Security Council was activated in such a way that it was called not after conversation but that a case that has not only an issue of national security but directly involved in national security would be accomplished in that the government at least did you have the conversation? But we have this scene, and I think it might get stronger by simply setting it up better. I want to finish my point by saying that I have high hopes for what's happened. A senator mentioned, on the one hand, the review of the governor and the other, the 911 line, and that this will be a good consideration when the case gets back in here. But I would put it on the table how we use national security.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u55	Madam President. The result. He may be the one who is now seeing at the council of the last few years, we are seeing in legislation the issue of national security, in terms of nature, in the transport system of electricity. There are points. We were in the Committee this morning discussing air travel, where we have a large law code on that matter, and we are dealing with only national security frauds in certain areas, and we see it in this case, and probably in the big case, in the Code. This emphasis is coming in more and more. It seemed strange to me that 2016, when I started here, how much there had really been so many national security coverages. Now I've spent more than four years at the NATO and I've seen the emphasis on the discussion there, e.g. has an Internet security case that has been there one of the biggest cases since I started. Then there's just this general debate over defenses and security issues, and that's not much of a discussion here. There is not much discussion about these matters in Icelandic politics, much less in the media. They need to look at foreign stations in order to see some conversation that may even matter to us. There's something like that. I agree with this about the 2016 national security policy, it was supposed to be examined within five years, to remind me, it's time, so I hope, in general, we take a little larger step on these issues that are changing everything we're talking about, whether it's communication, transportation, energy security, and all these things that modern society trust in. And the Internet security case, if we don't have a full share in this with other NATO countries, we'll just be out of the game.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u56	President. Yeah, I agree with that, and that's exactly what I was thinking about this morning when we were looking at that bill on the environment and transport committee as a matter of course. A senator describes, we see this thread, and we see this smell entombed through unique language. It is positive, and it is good. But I miss it on the part of the government, for I am also an interested person for national security, not to be making a complete policy and working out some purposeful ideologies. If that were the case, I think we'd have stopped at whatever situation there is in the nation's online security. I see a situation that is simply a major danger factor for Iceland, a crisis even, and in 2022 I don't think we should be talking as if the Internet is a new reality, I feel that sometimes you can see it in public discussion. We needed to be out of touch later than yesterday to make a clearer sense of direction and action in this suit, simply because of what we're doing. A senator would say so correctly, otherwise we won't be included. Not just the fact that we're gonna stay behind but we're gonna be stuck with an unprotected community. This does not mean that we are progressive because the people of this country live in good access and are online, and they spend even too much time online, perhaps more discussions about how much we hang on to the Internet than about what is on the Internet, not just the risks of individuals and citizens of this country, but the risks for society in general. [[The president calls.]] What's the latest attack form? The Internet is under attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u57	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in agricultural products, subsidies for vegetable farmers. It's the whole party of the Gangs that's on it. I don't doubt that everyone knows us, but it's Áslldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur Ármannsson, Ingi Inn Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, Tómas A. Tómasson and, of course, myself. 1st par. The bill reads: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: In spite of regulations 1 and 2 mg. 58. g. The state's fund should provide horticultures all costs of transport and distribution of electrical energy from production products between 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025, on the basis of the requirements that energy prices are for work, that subsidised electricity is specialised and that plants are edited only for their growth, that they are for sale, and that the annual use is more than 100 MWst per year. Total amount of subsidies at Case one. not to be limited to total contributions from contracts made by the Icelandic government to producers of horticulture products. At the same time, the state's funds will cover gardening repairs half the costs due to the development of electrical energy to farms, spores and horticultures between 2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025. Ministers are required to hide the Food Institute or other government agencies from providing professional supervision for subsidies of the transport and distribution of electricity, as is their organization and procedures in accordance with the legal requirements. The secretary sets up a regulation on the implementation of this law.◯ 2.g. The bill simply reads: ▪ This law already comes into effect. The bill was previously submitted to the 151st legion of legislatures, a 38th case, and is now reassigned. The bill remains largely unchanged, but the change is made to support according to Article 1. The bill now includes air conditioning in greenhouses, and the local community pointed to it as a review of the bill at the 151th legislature that much of the energy use of greenhouses is due to ventilation. The global epidemic of Covid-19 and the necessary disease prevention measures needed by the nations have shown the importance of domestic food production for national security. The presence of food is particularly important when a nation is as isolated as its vulnerable to a food import disorder as we are in Iceland. Therefore, there is good reason to engage in a large growth in the production of horticulture products and to eliminate the walls that are prevented from furthering domestic production. Increased domestic food production will also have positive effects in the fight against the economic effects of Covid-19 for the next few years. As the bill contributes to increased reimbursement for costs falling from the year 2021, it will already have a working effect on the value of it. It is therefore urgent that the bill be accepted as soon as possible. The production of horticulture products has increased dramatically in Iceland, and it's fine. Although the land is hard, gardeners have done a great work of developing food here that was once impossible to cultivate in the north. In the United States, for the sake of forward development in gardening, the public has had easy access to products that once seemed luxury items. Access to inexpensive energy has played a major role in the construction of Iceland's garden. Electricity is needed in larceny to illuminate and heat greenhouses. Electric prices therefore have a direct bearing on how much garden farmers can produce and on which to sell their products to consumers. Electricity is now market, so market prices need to be paid, swinging for supply and demand. In order to help increase the production of horticulture products, the Icelandic state has, to a degree, lost the cost of gardening farmers in transporting electricity and distribution. These subsidies enable gardening to sell markets for competitive prices in spite of the large supply of imported vegetables. Yet, there are certain problems with the present arrangement. Subsidies are limited to pre-specified total productions per year and each manufacturer can receive only certain parts of subsidies. In this case, the labour agreement is based on the working conditions of the manufacturer's product products that the manufacturer should always pay at least 5% of the costs of transport and distribution. Already, governments have revised agreements with garden farmers and have proclaimed increased subsidies in the years to come. That is a positive first step. However, it is necessary to go further. This bill suggests that over the next four years, all costs for transport and distribution of electricity for the production of gardening products will be subsidized. Therefore, the State will be committed to subsidies the costs regardless of whether the total cost exceeds the standards laid out in agreements between state and garden farmers and the criteria for the maximal share of the individual manufacturers of total pay. When it is intended to initiate agricultural production or to increase production, the distribution system or spread of distribution systems must be built in order to improve its transport capacity. Industrial farmers are generally unable to choose between distribution parties and have to pay large amounts of money for the structure of distribution systems. Thus, the cost is not subsidized, and these conditions create a particular barrier to garden farmers who make it difficult for them to increase their production and to reduce innovation in this article. The cost of stock is high, and the cost of living is also considerable. That is why the state is suggested to drain half the cost of gardening farmers in building electrical energy for gardening, sporement stations, and gardening stations. If this bill becomes a law, then the ideal conditions for Iceland's gardeners to promote their activities and increase their production will be established. Therefore, domestic production of horticulture products is expected to increase significantly and to increase the number of people working in this article. In addition, increased production of horticulture products has positive effects in other areas of employment, such as the construction industry. It is largely produced by horticulture products in areas most affected by transport services, and therefore there would be a major application in this production by increasing unemployment in those areas. I'm not going to talk about any of the articles of the bill anymore, but I'd like to know that from the fact that a group of people was formed in 2016, it's our dream that we'll become self-sustained in green and fruit culture, and not just for ourselves here, but for a long time, we can start producing it a lot of clean, fabulous and unpolluted product that we could go selling it abroad, that we at the same time stop moving fruit and vegetables from other countries. That would change everything. For fun, I'm going to find out that when I started politics, Denmark had a strange, strange subject. It was found that insecticides had been detected in the urine samples of preschoolers. Of course, they all became agitated, and members of the council decided, because they were actively eating fruit and vegetables, to see if there was no single and specific incident with these preschoolers. But we know. There was also a lot of insecticides in their urine, as strange as it was. Then German senators began to study the matter and found that the same was true there. Why? Of course, they began to see what this reconciliation was like. How was it that insects were found in the urine of senators and preschoolers, toxicities that had been banned in Europe for years? It was attributed to the aguar from a land we've made a great deal of exchange. I haven't been there yet, and we may have had our tests checked out, whether we also have a bit of insecticide in our urine. Since we eat vegetables and fruit a lot, it's sad that we don't be self-sustaining about the production. This bill has been the dream of Shockers. We've already recommended it, as I've said. This is a splendid goal that is reason for a body of Congress to take a personal interest in us and make a law of law. It is a beautiful vision if we use our clean, green, beautiful energy and our pure water to produce an unpolluted, lovely product and that we become self-sustained in that production. That would be priceless. I am optimistic and smiling in this regard that I believe that with good intentions we can assist gardeners and even other farmers, who may have difficulty in cultivating vegetables; in fact, give them an opportunity to do so, instead of staying out of trouble, to change their habitats. I can't even imagine how much of the wonderful vegetables and fruits we could produce. As it turned out, when I was reading from the bill earlier, it was previously considered impossible to cultivate some of the things we were growing today, on our hard-working land on the north side of the world. It was actually considered crazy when we were talking about producing various kinds of fruits and vegetables that we had until then merely moved in and much we didn't even see. A respectable president. I'm happy to present the bill. I really hope that it will be received well. I'm waiting for the highest. President to direct it to the correct committee. I'm inclined to be confused with what committee my bills are supposed to go to. But I trust the highest. A president to make sure our bill meets in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u58	A respectable president. We're here on the White House bill for subsidies on electrical energy supply to garden farmers. In many ways, this is kind of a brilliant bill. If we really think about all the vegetables we're bringing in, with all these carbon tracks, in flights, or in ships, in cool water, it's really impossible that we shouldn't have broken up our sleeves and given gardeners the possibility of being able to expand our productions. We have here what many other nations don't have, we have clean water, we have clean energy, we have enough of it, or we had enough of it, now we probably have to board sleeves too, and we're going to make practical activations. But at the same time, we're moving into large quantities of vegetables; paprika, e.g. From the Netherlands, where they probably rely mainly on nuclear or energy, which is not nearly as environmentally friendly as ours. If we think e.g. the Netherlands, how incredibly many of both flowers and vegetables they have managed to produce and export according to the situation they have and put it in relation to the situation we have, what we could do, it's really incomprehensible that we haven't been boarding up the sleeves and large increases of production and have not really gone on by a long time and started by massive exporting. We've begun a massive export, as we've basically been able to get on the posts, e.g., we're moving the gourds to Greenland, the Faeroe Islands, and Denmark. And why would this be so popular there? Yes, the Icelandic pickle is great. It's just clean, no poison is used for production, and it tastes much better. Nothing gets out of the way. It doesn't matter what happens, if we take the Icelandic pepper and foreign pepper, I can say that the Icelandic one is much more tasty and I don't doubt that it's more healthy, both because it's not used poison to produce it and because it's pure water. If we thought it through, who would benefit most if we, for example, were to do so. low electricity to garden farmers and larges, making it possible for more farmers to go to greenhouses and produce vegetables? If we think about this, who has the least affordable to buy vegetables in Iceland? Vegetables in Iceland are pretty expensive. There are those who have remembered and are the people who must be assured and able to buy these valuables because they themselves say that they have both food security and vitamins as well as very healthful foods. If we go back 30 years, one person was trying to grow an apple in his garden in Iceland. This could be done in greenhouses. But today's situation has become quite different. Today you can produce an apple crop in Iceland on trees just in the garden. The country's changing. We've produced in Iceland, in greenhouses, bananas and various brands of berries and fruit, but we're not asking that we go to some huge production of it, but we also think about technology, how technology in greenhouse production has become. We can see that the high - speed, high - tech greenhouses in Grafarvogur were being taken up by Lambagas. They have better greenhouses you've seen, and since you've seen one, they've got the most production on several hills and computers. It is producing quality vegetables, cabbages, and other products, and I have no doubt that these individuals could greatly increase production and produce this in a much more practical way if they did not have to pay extra electrical prices. Then they could very soon, and I don't doubt it, make sure we become self-sustained in the production of vegetables, which, of course, must be a racer. It can only be what we're headed for because the import is more expensive. We know that we have been involved in the production and industry, which is tremendously aggressive in electrical energy, such as the aluminum industry and other things. If we can sell electricity at very efficient sources, then we, as well as property, have the ability to produce vegetables and make vegetable farmers get a very favorable price on the electricity to make sure that, once and for all, we are able to be self-sustained, as well as what is required to this day, to reduce the levels of carbon dioxide as possible. It has to be said that there must be one of the best sources of food to reduce the amount of carbon from which we don't have to move in, and then the other, which must be a very good development, that we could probably start exporting high - quality vegetables without all the additives. Then I think, for example. Danes would choose it rather and would not have to have toxic compounds in their urine. I'm sure it's scary that they can find it in children. There must be an alarm call that we need to consider what vegetables we're importing and what condition they have on them. Is the situation better than what was discussed in Denmark? This is what we need to check, but number one, two and three, we should make sure once and for all that we are sustainable, that we don't have to import vegetables, that we're completely sustainable, and then we're headed for export. I saw plans for a greenhouse somewhere. These were basically the most brilliant designs of a greenhouse because they were built so that they could be expanded and fully increased systematically. This was a vision of the future, I don't remember exactly where I saw this and when, but I remember that this caught my attention because of the genius of the idea that was going there. This shows it if we give farmers an opportunity to do things the right way and not have to produce something with so expensive electricity that the food does not depend on it and only the chosen ones can buy it because they're so expensive we're on a better track, and that's what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u59	A respectable president. The Honorable World of Congress, and you, a good nation, sitting at home and looking at us senators speaking here from a pitament. My name is Tómas, called Tommi. I'd like to contribute this bill a little bit of a team because I have an opinion. For years I have eaten vegetables every day. I love spinach, wheatgrass, tomatoes and carrots, everything made in Iceland. Every day, I make proteiny with this vegetable, so I'm convinced of its quality. I've been up here in Lambhagen frequently, tracking the development of that company and, to my delight, seeing it grow. I've been there now for a year and I've seen it grow and grow, and I'm prepared for its ability to produce much and good vegetables, even to export. That's what this is all about here, helping farmers to start vegetableing to export. Paint meat. I'm born from Ferjukoti in the city, and in the old days, I remember, the main branch of Ferjukoti salmon was salmon. Then the salmon stopped fishing, and they only caught salmon on a pole. And now salmon are caught on a pole and released, so there's really nothing out of having any more. We've been fighting for the ban on blood glucose management, and I'd like to mix it with vegan culture because if farmers lose their blood maintenance money, they have to go into something else for their own sustenance and start making vegetables for their export. It's market enough for vegetables in the foreign world. Flight transport is very easy to get to the market. Pain is a child of its time. Sheep have dropped so much. I'm raised to think that there was always beefed with sheep, meat soup once a week, salt meat and beans and spine or thighs on Sundays. It's just not anymore. This is a thing of the past, unfortunately. If farmers lose their position in their manufacturing product, something must be done. I remember when I was at sea in the old days, and when the fur was over, we started catching cod, and then we started catching something else, so it's just the way it is. Now, it's time to start producing vegetables, because that's what we can do. We have everything we need, the electricity, the green electricity, the good soil, good water and fresh air, everything it takes to produce vegetables. I propose that the Honorable General agree to this bill to us Flolley people and help farmers get submerged electricity for exporting export products. There's no use getting a currency in that box.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u60	Madam President. This was the first time I moved to a Council of 148th, 169 C.E., but it wasn't over. Further, it was presented to the Council of 150th and 151th, 259th, with the victory of the first missionary, Páll Jónsson. The draft proposal has so far not been decommissioned, and since the state of the Forest Coast Road is still similar to what was introduced when it was first made and plans do not allow for unless limited reforms soon are now reborn, but with updated reporting, it can be expected that the practical thinking laid down would be to trust the basis for a quicker action in the construction of the Forest Coast that is currently planned. The road to Forest Beach has long been in the dough, so long that a bill set before the General Assembly in 1931 will first be about reforming the road and the construction of the bridge at Svegur. On August 10, 1942, 11 years later, Bjarni Bjarnason proposed a concierge that will be done on a bridge handle. In 1968, my late cousin, the Friðjón of Þórðarson proposed a synonym, with permission of a president: The General concluded to hide the government in part, that the government's Road Type has a facility to investigate bridge construction over Eelfjörður on Snæfells and provide a cost plan for the project, if at any cost. Of this development, these are just a few examples of the discussion and discussion of the Forest Coast Road that lasts for at least 90 years here at the General Assembly. Some of the bridge buildings are smaller bridges that have been made, while others, like a bridge over Eelphjörður, have not yet been made up. It should therefore be held that the fun is a great and difficult threshold on the way between the valley plains and the Snæfellsness. However, it is not just the Eeliff fun that is difficult to deal with, for the situation of everything is difficult. Not only is it beautiful, with a British farm on one hand, and the Bear Main, but it is the road through lowland and is rarely impossible for snow. On the other hand, the road is narrow and has many of its monotonous bridges, blind hills, and other dangers. In that case, the road is quick to go very bad during the breakday because of traffic. Actually, the road is little better than it was some 50 years ago. A study of road accidents in 2007/2010, led by Þóroddur Bjarnason, found that the Forest Coast Road was one of the three most dangerous roads in the country. Since 2010, there have been increasing traffic in the country as more tourists and traffic through the coasts of Forest Beach have been more than ever since reports of traffic accidents and realize that the road does not depend on the road that goes through them, nor does it serve its purpose to form a well - established bonding relationship between the built - up vaccines that we live in. Forest soil is a road, and one of these is one of the few on national level, where it does not have to be broken down and projects do not reject it as a goal. The road is to be a link between Snowfalls and other parts of the country, both Western and Northern. However, the situation prevents this from happening and drives residents on the Snæfellsne through a longer road south to the citynes to reach north, over 100 miles [100 km] longer, and a 60 - mile [60 km] - long journey to the north. The same applies to freight transport, which is considerable between Western, Snæfellsness, and Northern countries, especially by marine products. It is important to take it into account that increasing traffic, both car and heavy transport, results in far more greenhouse gas emissions. Shorter distances are better for the environment. According to the transport plan for 2020-2234, the total cost of construction on Forest Road is estimated to be 4 billion. The vast majority of that amount, 3.1 billion, is estimated to be in operation during the third season of the 2030/2034 program. The date for the completion of the project has not yet been established, but a transport program indicates that at least over the next 15 years and that such long - term schedules will not be tolerated. So long wait for needed reforms on the road to do so is unacceptable and important to attack the construction of the forest road much earlier. For many reasons, road damages are necessary. The route is multiple. It is a trade and trade route, and it takes countless tourists to enjoy the culture and destinations that are located in many parts of the British world, opening up new opportunities for various cooperations and improved education services in the area, such as health and education. Some of the markets, for example, are expected to fight in the face of employment and urbanity, and considering increased tourism, the area is rich with a wide range of nature, history, and cultural traditions that could be built up to travel services in case of easy transportation. Tracks are intimidated when considering the facts of the past few years in terms of the follow-up of the approved transport programmes. This synonym is aimed at promoting the development of this important transport structure as soon as possible. This is especially so by examining carefully how much such transport will mean and by drawing out more of a stronger basis for speeding up the structure of these roads. After nearly a hundred years of discussion about building the Forest Coast Road at the General Assembly, it is time for action. Let the action be spoken, and let us draw closer together the settlements of the British farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u61	A respectable president. I've come up here with this case because I'm a sincere candidate for transportation in the country and I just wanted to talk about it a little bit more. As we know, transport is essential to flourishing settlements. As indicated by the introduction to the synopsis proposal, this is not the first time this proposal is proposed. I just wanted to hear from a senator if it was likely that this would work out, if there was any greater optimism. I'm also wondering if the road has been re-evaluated since 2010, but as the conclusion indicates, the road is one of the three most dangerous roads in the country, and this is from a 2010 report. However, I am wondering if this has been being reevaluated in view of a significant increase in the number of tourists in this area, whether or not this has been reexamined. I cut by the sentence in the speech of the dog. A senator and also in the text: ◯Sporin is afraid when considering the facts of the past few years in terms of the follow-up of the agreed transport programmes. Maybe I just wanted to hear more about this, what the hell. A senator has this to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u62	President. Thank you. A senator for the deposit. I'm optimistic about something more happening. It's called after this in the region, there's something that people and rurals have to do. It is so important that we can better connect these local settlements and thus strengthen them. It gives me optimism. As a child, I drove a lot around, I'm raised in the area, and I'm sorry to see that the road is a little better than it was then, when you pass through. There have been some evaluations, but there is a lack of greater and more social assessment, as I'm suggesting. In fact, the suggestion does not involve a major expenditure but primarily includes the evaluation of all interests that are taken into the community and what it can mean to put it on better and more transport. I think there's a lot of readings and other things you can do better with the road. As for the fear of the stride - I've been tracking and fighting for transportation, and I've watched the progress of transport projects, especially those that land on a three-year schedule. I'm watching one project begin now, which was on a three-year plan when I started my country government 20 years ago and started fighting for the project, the Roastland Road, or The Way. You see too many examples of a planned design, but then you can only follow up on what may be next to a person in the planning program.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u63	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the answer. I'm pleased to hear that the community's unity is great. I think that's exactly the key to transport in the region, i.e. that rural communities stick together and mindlessly behind the projects to take action. But I also think that after the Covid years, and that many Icelanders have had a little forced to travel within the country, it is more than feeling that it just needs to be improved and that we have to go over exactly where we need to improve. As I earlier said, I am a sincere advocate and a motivation for transportation in the country, and I like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u64	Madam President. Thank you. A senator inserts the motivation and motivation that we share in transportation and, especially, in the country. Of course, there are a number of larger projects we need, but let's not forget the same things we have to do to improve our interconnecting with nearby settlements and those within them, strengthening our community by moving ahead. In the middle of Brefjord, it is about exactly what this may mean. People can make better use of services, education, health care, social life, and anything possible. Further members of your community are also possible if they did. It is crucial that communities can be connected in this respect. We'll walk the road and follow through. I think that's exactly what people have figured out in this Covid wave, which we're about to finish. People are starting to think only in other ways, there were times when people didn't go as much between parts of the country, and also how important it is to strengthen individual communities and territories. I just hope we don't have to wait another 100 years to finish this thing and put it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u65	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to correct the changing of Fish Room law, No. 36/1992, with subsequent changes. With me are the entire assembly of Flock's people, Ásldur Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Aarveron, Kristinsson Insson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon, and Thomas Tómas Tómasson, with me. The bill reads, with President's permission: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. 2 mg. Section 6. The law goes away. 2.g. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2022. Then we'll report with the bill. It's been submitted twice before, at a Council of 150s and 151s, and then I'm making a recommendation this third time, because unfortunately it didn't work out for the other two times. In the spring of 2010, one year after the current coastal fishing system went into effect, N. 33/2000. It stated that a license for coastal fishing, as well as a general license payment, should be paid $50,000. for every beach fishing permit published by the government. A fish lab should collect the fee. So the map of a beach fishing fee should be set aside where a catch obtained from coastal fishing would be in the country. Since then, the so - called Coastal Fishing Cost has remained the same but with 1 str. Laws on the Changing of Fish Room and Various Other Laws (Requires), No. 67/2015, the law was extended to 6. song about Fish Room. I've asked a marine economist and agricultural minister at a 149 C.E. legislature for a beach fishing fee. Even there was a number of them. asked about the amount of so-called coastal fishing from the start of 2010 to the final holdings of 2018, listed in industry and ports, and calculated in all cases to modern values. The answer indicates that this price totaled over the whole country over the course of the year, some 342 billion. K. counted to the current value in April/Mami 2019. At present, it is an average of 38 million. K. every year. I'm not going to get into that. We know that there are between 320 and360 boats that have been involved in coastal fishing. The fact is, there are no other boats, no other fish that live on this so - called beach fishing fee, these 50,000 bucks, except the smallest boats, except the beach fishing boats, so there is really total discrimination. The purpose of this law in its time was to strengthen the docks for beach fishing boats, but the case is that it has long been completed. There is no need to continue to squeeze out of these small boats of life, as is being done in the present coastal fishing system. Let us see that these boats have only 48 days each year's access to fishing. It is, in effect, pure indistinguishable. 12 days a month, thank you very much. Suppose it gives up on the average week during the three days, compared with 12 days. If it gives up, they'll just drop down days, thank you. Dear little boatman, beach trapper, you will lose these days just because the weather said so, and we will not allow you to decide for yourself when you will attend the sea. The Lawgiver here is going to determine how the weather and the wind go to sea. That's it. In fact, the extent to which this industry is prevented is amazing. People's party wants free hand fishing. He wants to allow small boats all around the country to hunt free because it is totally clear to people and to all who want to admit it and have something called rational thinking in their head, whether they are experts in the sea fishing field or other, that there is no hand fishing of small boats below ten tons that will threaten life in Iceland. However, it would completely change life in the hidden sea regions, and it has evidently been trying to squeeze out every drop of blood. So it's kind of surprising that I'm measuring for this bill for the third time in a row when it's obvious that this industry is being discriminated against in excess of the rest of the marine roads. That's amazing. In the large context, everyone would ask: 50,000 bucks. What's that? That's a respectable president of the United States, 50,000 bucks. Too much for the beach hunter. He's tortured enough. It is quite remarkable to see how secret and obvious things are trying to destroy this issue. Now, in the last December of the past year, a new ocean - search minister accomplished the setting of a directive that actually impairs the resources of these smallest boats on the coastal fishing grounds of some 1,500 tons, from over 10,000 tons to 8,500. This is absolutely an amazing, respectable president. I'd say it's a minimum honor to our beach fishermen to take away this 50,000 bucks. On a special dock that no other sailors have to pay, not tug, nothing. No one else has to pay for this. It's a violation of an order of 90. It's a clean and complete discrimination. It is, in effect, more painful than tears at the point of being the lawgiver himself, who approves of such discrimination. A respectable president. So to tell them, since the beginning of his life, a group of people have fought for it, since I was born and raised in a beautiful display called Ólafurfjörður. It's shocking to see how you've squeezed your life out of the beautiful pine I was born and grew up in, where my heart always beats and is missed, looking for the time when you were little toe, bumping down to the port, seeing these adults being their boats, looking forward to going to the sea, fishing at the fur, as my old dad had, or being with his skills. It is more painful than tears to see that this reverse development has been allowed to continue for so long, that for years, since the release of the salanian exodus, the exact small - boat seamen all around the country have had the huge and dreary negative consequences it has had for our little TVs. A respectable president. I won't believe it until I deal with it if the lawgiver doesn't drop that $50,000. The extra payment that is placed on this fishing road most of all. I can't believe that, most respectable President, I'm going to make a fourth recommendation at the next legislature council. Then I'd like to say, though it's all a different matter than the straight-lined natural ocean soil: congratulations on the Versatile, marvelous factors that show this development completely black on white, wonderfully based factors, and you're proud of the existence of such and the like, idealists who have made it so successful that you really experience through the ratings of these factors how few people actually funded the sea resources, the people who are now so rich that they and the whole family will not end up in their lives to spend as much as they could every day. However, they have taken over the land and the ticket, having more and less in all their businesses and everything they can do. But there will never be the small boatmen, the beach fishermen, who will threaten the lifelines around the country. This vision, which was set out at its time, and a decision that was evidently taken in smoke - filled back rooms, if indicated, by what was spoken at that time - is absolutely clear that it is possible, a respectable president, to wind up from this development. It will not even be possible to bridge the gap between members of the nation and to reconcile our common resource unless we get our quota back home. That's the only way, Mr. Honorable President, since the people's party has also been saying from day to day, "Elathan home." It's us, the Icelandic nation, who owns the resource around the country, not few of us, chosen a sea count, but now no more complicated than what can really be said to pay barely access to the resource, much less so. There would be a difference between the state registers, even though they paid only half of it to us for accessing a common resource as if they were exploiting themselves every year. Now that I'm way beyond material, it's just that I get really hot when I start talking about the seafood. A respectable president. I repeat once again: I don't believe until I figure out that I'm going to measure for this bill for the fourth time, which is just a correction of the discrimination in front of these unique fishing roads, which are beach fishing boats, small boats, which alone pay of all 50,000 bucks. to port charge. So, a respectable president, there is nothing but correction, nothing but fairness and justice in eliminating this beach fishing fee altogether. It's certainly not going to put a government fund on its head to stand by making things better and correcting others as discrimination as is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u66	A respectable president. I support this bill with my mind, the breakdown of a beach fishing fee. What are we doing on one more trip? Yes, discrimination. Therefore, I have called this government the discriminatory government, which discriminates its citizens. This is a price no one else pays in fishing, in ships, and other fishing grounds where other species are caught, just these little beach fishing boats, 50,000 bucks. A special fee for them. At the same time, though, we're hearing about record fishing, global record fishing, 3,448 tons. Let's put it in the context of this case, a boat that catches this enormous quantity of fish, and if it seemed to be tons, how much should this boat be paying for it? That's 500,000, 5 million, 50 million? These small beach fishing boats may bring tons of the best raw materials available, the best raw materials, and 90.4% of these fish may go directly to the market here in the country. They're taxing unfairly on this eco-friendly hunt. I support the whole mind of free hand fishing because it's the most permanent fishing we can pursue. We get the best raw materials, and we know it, me and Icelanders, because we go to a fish store and buy a quality dump. Sadly, it has become much too expensive for most people on the lowest salary and compensation and hardly have a knife and spoon. This is not possible at the price of about 3,000 bucks. the kilogram for these people who are trying to survive some 240,000K. a month, and I'll pay $200,000. rent. It tells itself that there is not much left for those who share in the month, and they really have to live at 500 or 600 bucks. daily. Going to the store and buying quality fish is enough. But there is another matter, as it always is, not everyone is equal to the law. It's just taxing on one class that's really crazy because it's such a small amount in itself. If she was put on all the fleet of ships, I think I'd hear a howling sound. If the price was updated on all the ships, it would probably not last long, for then the greeting would stir up a destructive storm. Of course, it's okay to put it on these little boats that can only hunt 12 days a month and 48 days a year. And as we have seen, showing the folly of all these things, they can only hunt in certain days. Not after the weather. No. They must not follow what sailors have done through the centuries, follow the weather. No, they can only hunt on specific days that show another absurdity in the treatment of these beach fishing boats. I'm just saying, "Get out of here, and see our credit in making beach fishing free."
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u67	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill of a change in home income market. What does that mean? I'd like to first say that on this bill, we're in the entire Phillydour Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, Eyjólfur the Ármannsson, Kristinsson Sæland, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. The bill reads: - Uh-huh. - At 1st. 23rd par. The law shall add a new proverb, saying, Then the pensioner shall have 1,200,000 pieces. a special vacation market for pension income. 2.g. This law goes into effect on January 1, 2022. The bill shows that the bill was submitted to 149., 150., and 151. In other words, a respectable president, I am measuring for this fair and just case for the fourth time. In the meantime, older citizens and their partners, the older citizens'Union, and others have made the modest demands of the bill that the money paid on pension should be paid at the price of 100,000 dollars. a month, not a $25,000. Right now. I'm gonna ask the case to the bottom of my mind. In historical context, the general average average of holiday pay is very low, and the aim of this bill is to increase fairness in the social security system and encourage saving of pensioners by reducing damages. We in the Gang of the People are always trying to reduce the degree of impairment. We don't want people to be punished for trying to save themselves, not punishing people for working, and we don't want to put up their ownership rights on pensions that are forced by law, we've gone to pay off all our lives. We do not personally choose to pay for a pension fund. We do not choose to own the word more than 6,000 billion in the property of pensions, it has become about In every business and business in the community, it's 60 to 470 percent. They'll lend us our own money with money. And I don't know what. But how unlikely it is to have legalized in a pension fund all her years of service and when it comes to enjoying the fruit - no, hit on one more trip with the rice, and you are almost punished for it because of $25,000! Payback from a pension fund immediately begins to reduce your income from your social insurance dollars to a dollar. With law No. 116/2016, changes in social security and other laws, including The change in the social security pension system has been made that all special vacation limits due to individual types of income have been removed. Instead, one general payoff target of 25,000 dollars was registered. Whatever their type, the income of a pensioner will depend on a month or so. With law No. 96/2017 was also laid off by a special payout for employment income, as is now the 4th issue of 1 mg. 23rd par. track No. 100/2007, Social Security. According to the Department of Social Affairs, unless there's an overall impairment to sensibilities for pension income - notice due to the pension income - 37.556 billion dollars. every year, which is 37,556 million. K. No one can hide the enormous sums of money that are being taken from older people and those who have paid legal force in pensions all their years. What kind of community is this, a respectable president, who is in charge of such property of his subjects and then legs, as the legislation around the social security system is doing? Let's not forget that there's a roof in the social security system. There is no average wage that is measured here at around 700 levels. K. and something in a month, entitled to one dollar from the Social Security System. Actually, it is such that those who are at the lowest rate of pay and have the lowest resources are the only ones entitled to get money from social security. I'm law-blind, 75% anorexic on the supersonics here. Is there anyone who thinks I'm on the disability forwarding of social security? No, I'm too rich. And if we're recommending, when speaking of directors of the supersalas, that he get out of social security, that's why it's not. How could anyone ever think to ask such questions unless someone with no idea how the social security system is built up? Doesn't have a idea about the social security system over heads and assholes out of their heads so stupid that it's half that you don't know how to deal with them here from the World Congress speakers when you've been getting such weird inquiries. Older citizens themselves have saved for their pension share. Pension companies are therefore not remunerations that come from employers at the end of their working years. It is not an employer's salary that comes at the end of his career age; it comes from the employee himself who at this point is going over to the pension payment he thought was responsible for the immediate retirement of the pension system in his time, around 1969. It was totally clear to the people: that's where you're saving money. You guys are really in there, so you can have a better life at the end of your working years. You see, my good fellows. But it wasn't. There is a decline in this, as always in all the financial payments that come from a insurance agency, a decrease on the basis of pension income, an indirect decrease in the interests of which senior citizens have earned their jobs over the years. That, according to information from the Ministry of Social Affairs, is only costing the state budget of 16 billion dollars. in increasing cost every year to raise to 100,000 dollars this voluntary market of pensions. What is the significance of the 16 billion of these funds? This means that the state's budget or the state cannot limit pensioners for their own acquired rights up to a hundred thousand dollars. But it shall make a difference for the person, and for those who have low pensions, the lowest of three, the four balances. It'll make a difference for them to be able to get those 75,000 bucks. which is between 25,000 and 100,000. to himself in the process. It is reasonable for the public to have their own savings, and it is a step in the right direction to set up a special vacation target to a hundred thousand dollars. a month instead of $25,000 a month. I'm not going to refer more to the bill as such, but it's more painful than tears, you're just always frustrated here, measuring for fair and just matters year after year, the legislature council after the legislature, without paying attention to it. And what's more, a respectable president, that this case, like most of the other matters we recommend, is put to sleep on a committee. The constant committees take our good things, the fair things, the justice matters, and throw them into the mill and flush them down the drain. It's Iceland today. You have sometimes wondered, " Is it really true that, as society often calls for, we are only reduced to about half because we have little more than to be treated badly with the good things offered by the government? ' It's one of them. We know there's a call in the community. We know there's a huge poverty in this society. We know there's a call for averages. We know it's the highest. The secretary of finance talks about little more than what OECD says in his Excel documents, we're so damn good, on average we're good, we're very good at buying. This is even said knowing that we are now dealing with 5.7% of inflation, knowing that we are about to rise, for example. Pays the poor family who are fighting with their price - secure mortgage to up to 40 million, for today each brick becomes a million if you are going to buy a roof over your head and get yourself a safe haven. This person has to pay, if there is not something to be done about this 5.7% inflation, about 700,000 bucks, more on his loan every year, 700,000 bucks. More. A respectable president. It seems impossible, after a full career career, to have the right to be guaranteed by the Constitution, the so-called legal rights of the constitution. It's completely flushed. The rights here are being trampled on, a respectable president. In this case, after a whole career, you'll get $25,000. Out of the pension fund. It doesn't matter whether you make ends meet or not. It doesn't matter how bad your situation is, you get nothing more here, fine Iceland. So I'm fourth time on this matter. I hope it's not for the fifth time. I hope the committee puts their arms around the matter and follows it now because the call is very loud in the community. There is great distress in society, and there is no equal, or terrible, position, and the power of riches, just as the peak alone, is like the highest level. The secretary of finance seems to be holding. It's not. We know that imported goods have increased by tens of percent. We know that the power of riches has completely collapsed, so that a person with 240,500,000,260 k. among the hands that have to be paid rent, just for a three-bedroom apartment, they don't have one dollar left to buy food. How can this be, proper President? How could this be for one of the richest people in the world, that we should be completely hardheaded to look at the plight of those whom we are supposed to be helping? It is time for the government, the government here, wide - open eyes, to descend to the earth for those who are calling for help and helping as they should and elected. We represent 63 people here at the General Assembly. I'm absolutely certain that, as I stand here, every government member would rejoice if the government stepped forward and raised minimal progress, tearing the mortgage out of the index, the inflation would be immediately tomorrow in 3.7% and helping those who need help. A respectable president. Above all, the ownership rights of the constitution are sacred to us. We are to enjoy what we have earned. We should not be shot to give up. We're not to be punished, we're not to be harmed. We should not be treated badly. At least To keep the poor from this tiny pension rights, as much as a hundred thousand dollars, and to enjoy. I refer this bill to a respectable president, that he puts it in place so that I don't always see the shit I do here so often. I encourage the entire U.S.R. to give thought to the matter and to respect the legal requirements of the Constitution and respect the lives of our employees as well as of older people now waiting to have a carefree night of their lives. But unfortunately, a respectable president, it's not that common among too many people, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u68	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for her history. I think it's an important subject for discussion. We've been talking about the poor reformers for years and we haven't come to any conclusions. We know our pension system has been and is even more imperfect. The average person has spent most of his life earning 56% just in the pension system, many of them much less because he has had irregular pay. So it has been all sorts of things, and it is not until recently that this possibility to collect money from pension funds was increased to 76% with additional contributions from employers, but it takes 40 years to earn that right. I've been thinking that pension payments are just postponed incomes. It is just a set of income, which we used, not at the time we worked for, but at the age of our old age or when we reached our age. It's interesting to see that pill that comes with the bill. I wanted to ask you what. A senator of it, where it comes from, and who has proved these numbers. If it doesn't cost more than 16 billion, it's just a whole different figure than I've been told over the years, that it was way too expensive for our community, we'd be just going to be head-to-head.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. I agree with every word he says. The table is obtained from the then social and child-relevant minister, Ásmundur the Einar Daðason of Dada, after sending a request for a written answer to the Minister. That's how we have these numbers and this table, and I chose not to try to list it all as it says here, I don't think it would have made any sense. I just want people to look at the bill and the board that comes with it because it says everything that needs to be said about how people are treated who have earned this right with their Elde and work through their lives. Well, at least not at all. A senator may not have mentioned it then, but I may have forgot to say in my speech earlier that when we walk our way, we are under the green swarm, our credit is not even permafrost but to a small extent, except to a very small degree. It is another matter that a group of people have recommended more than once, since it is called upon by the Constitution's rights to be respected so that it is recognized as our contribution, by our own work, even though we are pressured by the law to pay for a pension fund and not have a choice of doing business differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to mention that not quite a long time ago, the Penitentiary Fund increased 10% of its members' rights because it had been better than expected. So it's legal that if profits exceed 10%, pension funds are required to improve the rights of their members. But then you read it in the media and on the community media that almost all the money that went there in the pockets of the people had disappeared into the pit, it would have been just a small fraction that those with the right had got into their pockets. Of course, it's, I think, a bad side of this other good system we're supposed to try to cultivate and keep going. I cut it in answer to him. A senator said that this court was not inheritable. But we have an insurance system. In our pension system, we're defending one another. We're going to have accidents, we're going to have disability, we're gonna need disability from the pension fund. Much of the pay of pension funds, as many as 15% in some people, goes to pay disability. It's a policy fund designed for us to stand together as workers and defend one another if we experience tragedy. I'm asking why. Senator: Is she ready to replace the insurance system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u71	President. Thank you. Second and second man's answer. A social security system -- Yeah, that's right. It's a co-sponsoring system. It's a social security system. It's a waste of 17 to 20 billion dollars. Every month. It's more than 200 billion a year that we're taking care of our country's employees and setting up in a pension fund. I think it's really unfair, if you talk about this as a contribution to insurance, if you don't get to use it as insurance for your own family when you blow off. I also think it's unfair to think that if I leave with my pension, there aren't others who'll be replaced. I'm hoping that we will continue to increase our numbers and continue to thrive and that new generations will take over. I will never agree that the advanced generation, the older people today, has a curved back over the fact that if they get the fruits of their labor, what they've put into the pension system, they'll put the system on its side. It's so wrong as if I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u72	Madam President. It's a bill that I support my mind, about a pension market. I'd like to begin with what was mentioned here in the matter of decision-making, the social security system. How much social security is this? Let me tell you a story, simple. When I was in disability in my day, I received payments from the State Insurance Institute, which took a considerable time to obtain money from a pension fund. Then I waited, I had four children, sick, and then pay came from the pension fund. In debt, you're thinking, "Okay. Then I'll just get one check, great. Now I can settle my debts. And I did. Still, the payment did not fully cover their debt. I was happy for a few months. Then came the Great Diplomatic Day, which was August 1, every year, from the State Insurance Institute. They said, "You received a single payment from the Penitentiary Fund." As a result, we've decided to take away every cent we have for a year. It was the message. I decided to try to see if this could be legal. Yes, it was totally legal, but it was completely immoral. But do you think the case was over then? No, it came about because then I was on fixed payments from the pension fund. How did this affect my disability payments from the government Department? Yes, they underestimated them by 38.9%. That means I was in itself paying, if we update it, more than 70% of my income from the pension fund. Let's put this into context with a high income tax and in the context of what we're talking about, cohesion. This doesn't make any sense. The global insurance is a lousy butt-scraped monster, more and worse than I think you could have ever read about in a Frankenstein book. And who will it bite on? Yes, it is the bite of sick people who cannot defend themselves. Who makes a system to prey on sick people or injured ones who do not have a chance to defend themselves? Yes, a government government by the government has built this system and maintained it. If we take this bill in particular and talk about raising the cost line from $25,000. At $100,000 a.m., which will bring the most benefit? It's not complicated, it's women in the labour market. Why? Yes, because they have less income and have been stuck in the workforce. As a result, they have less pension money. We are particularly punishing them in this system. And then microchip, as I came to be before. So it's always forgotten inside this system that it's not just 38.9% for micro-piercs and 45.5% for older citizens, then there's a chain-mutations in it. The question is, What is the individual's situation? Does he have an apartment that is in debt, or does he owe it? Is he in a lease? Does he have a special rent? Does he have any other special payments that cut off a dollar and cause chain damage throughout the system? As often as it turns out, you're getting a dollar into the system on this side. You think to yourself, " Okay, that must improve my interests. ' But then you realize that you are, in fact, in a bad way because of 2 scratches. disappeared on the other side, they pass through the system and cause a chain reaction, causing the person to lose by accepting the one dollar. It knows those who maintain this system and they know what will defend this system. Why on earth do they want it this way? Because they say that the State's financial situation is on its own. But what are we talking about in this case? 16 billion, total, if we took out the whole system, 42 billion. Let's put this in context of what's being done in the Covid business. Is it putting us all on our heads completely? No, but allowing the people to have this legalized spade taken over from their possession rather than using it to reduce their pay from the state, they're supposed to put us on the ground. So, at one time, there was really no hope in sufficiency. It's not cutting the pension fund, but it's using the pension fund to cut the benefits of social security and other benefits. Any taxable income reduces all kinds of benefits. This shows itself black in white when a government by government is using these indiscretions and gross abuse of the pension fund in this way. The Pension Fund is the life savings of people, but there the state thinks they've found big banks. There are the people who are supposed to have the ability to pay over 70% tax. But is that so? There are some who can live up to it, those who have the highest income. That's what happened. Sæland The country's average income is about 700,000. The country's average income last July was 794,000. and are already well over 800,000 dollars, medium income. It also tells us how in the world we can expect a person to be hurt, just an ordinary worker, to survive some 260-270,000 k. paid with the pension fund. A woman who gets 60,000 bucks. From a pension fund, we're gonna get about 240 to250,000. a month after taxes in total incomes from pensions and insurance agencies. It shows us in black that this system is our worst type of economic violence. We look at this as 5.7% of inflation. By the end of the year, the index was being increased. It is always forgotten in this context, when increasing the index in the social security system, that it is being paid back for the year. What you just got for New Year's season is supposed to be repetitive for the last year. As a result, this group is immediately removed in January, and it must be squeezed out throughout the year until, at most, the inflation is restored, if reaching it. I say it would be wishful, and I really hope this bill is approved. Finally. These are very modest early demands, 100,000 k., only the first step in leaving once and for all and for cutting down our pension fund by 70% and even 100%. It's completely unpleasant. By using it along with other government slaving tools, with regard to special rents and all kinds of grants, the declines can go up to 100%. Tell me about it. I know. That's what I've been through. I know it for myself. To say that the pension system that is now - can you imagine what the overall benefit of the pension system was last year? It was 1,000 billion. And who owns this system? Yes, it is us, the people of the country. We are the ones to enjoy it. This is not built up as a profit supply for government by government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his conduct here. I've already known what to do. For a considerable period of time and long before he sat down in the High General Assembly, and he has been true in his case over the years. What I'm wondering is, and what was obviously just presented in the matter anyway. A senator is a teratogenicity around all of these revenues that take place in our improved system and the transfer systems, which, of course, are just gravely serious. We're putting in at least a population of all these trials. It's normal for pension funds to collect money, because it's a storage system we live in. We're saving up a lot of money when we retire. Then there are other systems, such as a flow system, where a government fund pays for retirement. But there are always fewer and fewer taxpayers, since older ones are growing, so this system is the best system in itself. But when it's so severe, it just turns into something deformed. But I wanted to ask you what. A senator. The source of income seems to be relevant. Those who paid a pension fund are reduced to the back and back, but those who could choose to pay for the special property are not affected, and those who could collect money under the pillow are not limited. So it seems in our system that the origin of income was important. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbrandur of Einarsson's inquiry. Yes, we know each other well from the previous time in the Southnes'WBC, Reykjavík, and the South American Society. I agree completely with him. I cannot help but agree. Of course, it tells itself how we handle various incomes. It appears to be endemic for the government that all taxable income causes impairment in this system. It doesn't tell us that it's the problem. It's the system itself, the way it's built up, the main problem. I'll agree with that, and I completely agree. A senator in the pursuit of his pension money, doing it well, and I'm content with a thousand billion profits. But I'm not happy that 70 to 90% goes to the state. The purpose was not to build this system in this way. If we take as an example what was pointed out, when you retire, you will receive 56% of your anticipated income. If you have 400,000 k. In pay, that's $200,000. How in the world are you going to interfere when you have twice as much money? Is it not minimal to wait with a decrease until you have an average salary or the salary you had before? Why is half the pay needed? How, on the other hand, were you to try to live at twice the pay? Even after retirement, some may have many commitments. It seems that some later went to the job market, not having as much money as they are even into debt during this period. So they need to have these small amounts left in motion. [[The president calls.]] But they're reduced to both back and back.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u75	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. The origin of income seems to be important, and I just wondered: " Is it really supposed to be that the origin of income matters? Why are some incomes to be cut off and not others to be paid? I wondered about a different arrangement. Of course, our state funds and welfare community need income institutions that make it possible for us to maintain a powerful welfare system, but somehow we are taxing just a variety of taxes. Would it be possible to put it into just one system, so that we no longer allow the source to matter? Here's a word. A senator who receives 200,000 pensions in view of 400,000. A reward he may have had as a worker or a worker. He'd get such a 200,000 call out of the social security system, and then the entire gross would be 400,000. Could we handle this within the tax system like any other income so that you could just get all the benefits you have, and then they'd be treated in the tax system like other incomes? Of course, we could change the tax system just to earn what the government fund needs with a number of tax steps, to balance the terms and to make money. You can have more steps in the tax system than just the ones you already have.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's God for the answer. I must say, yes, of course, this is a ridiculous system. Now that I'm at a Parliamentary wedding, I'm getting an extra council leader, and it's like it's used to cut the senator's salary. Who would think so? Or that I would be an ordinary worker who would get extra work in the store, I would be a carpenter, and what I could get at the store would be the opposite, or vice versa. No one would think of developing such a system, not a man. But this is what we do. It's a bit of a good example. If we take 400,000, it's 56% of 22,000. What's he getting when he's got it? If given correctly, it should have 500,000. Take a look at this. But what does this person really receive? 300,000 and 250,000 after taxation. Where's the pension fund? He's gone. You see, there's taxes. In fact, he may be worse when he is on a lease with special rent or something else or if he has some kind of strength. A lot of sponsors in the system never go up. It's been the same since 2005, 2006, and they've never raised a dollar, so they've always dropped and cut. That is why it is vital and vital that we reevaluate this system, and that is what we are talking about. However, in order to reevaluate this system, it has to be done by the legislatures, older citizens, and poorer people. They must be listened to and brought to this revision because another system, even worse, will be created. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm afraid of, if these parties don't get in on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u77	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland for a clear description of the bill here on discussion, okay? paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for his case and his business. The members of the council here have spoken up. I believe that I will have that opinion, at least while I consider a new senator, that we should take - and that may not be enough within the two minutes given to the council once, twice a week to explain what I'm thinking here. I believe we should revise the activities of the council and make them more efficient and more modern. We are in a 19th - century building, and at times we need to adapt to the building rather than allow the building to fit in with us. I think we should be able to establish a system where we could get our comments and comments out of our seats, not having to cross the length of the hill to say a few words in protests or comments. I think we should be able to set up here some of our points, just as we do on telecommunications if we want to promote some ideas like that. This would then be held in place, and everything would be electronically recorded with cameras and computers, especially if time was more useful to us in focusing on the main points discussed here. First, to trust in the income fund we already have, and to focus on increasing the support, the income that would make it so much easier to take it for granted, entirely for granted, to carry out what we are talking about today. And if it benefits only 16 billion in addition to what is currently so small in the 1,000 billion context we are moving into each year that it should be a completely self-denial thing to go through with. The society is to live up to the dignity of a welfare society. We are, as has been said so many times in this hall and elsewhere, among the richest nations of the world. We're the lions' luck with our location on the globe, with the resources we have received, the green energy everybody wants, the land quality everyone wants to see, the fishing grounds and the purity of the air, the mud and the fixes. This is what everybody wants. We have in our hand what all other nations long for and are now looking forward to. One of the major challenges of our day and the future is to protect these quality, sometimes in weather, which is not ideal, while the earth and water and everything that others envy about us is against the cold. I'm just saying this because there's too much time here in this room arguing about the change of the cookie, but not enough time to think about how we're growing it and how we're gonna crack rifles about the little slices or big things that we need to make sure of. I hope that this will be listened to by new members of the council and that we will improve our work here and give ourselves more time to focus on the main points that are that the welfare community requires that it be not anxious to grow up having toil in the world's highest food prices, the highest taxes, and the things we have, unfortunately, failed to achieve. But these are becoming new habitats, as previously said. Travel service has given rise to a tremendous amount of value when it is allowed to work in a normal environment. We should focus on what we have and have given us a more natural advantage, that no Trix in abroad can prevent the paying of a natural amount of green energy that we are selling mostly to foreigners, that our fish common to us gives us the highest possible slide, and so is the fire that has come to be as precious and valuable as the fish company that's all about the garage, the good awareness of the cry-blowing system as it is in Iceland. What is the condition of the foxes? What balance is there between freedom and responsibilities? These are the big questions. The bill on this topic is presented for the fourth time. This is so spontaneous and reasonable a change for better, that I sincerely hope that there is no need to measure this matter for the fifth time. There will be nothing to give up in the fight for a fairer and just society, changing your anxiety evening to a joyful evening, where you are rewarded for having shared in building a powerful welfare community and infrastructure, and getting a natural share in that welfare community. I think it's really hard to argue a lot longer. Let's get together in the face, we'll back up this bill, this first step in the direction of a righteous social security system, and then we'll look at the overall revision of this already started system, that it will make up for what is missing, so we can look in the mirror and say: We're proud citizens of the modern welfare community in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-02-08-35.u78	A respectable president. Hv. A House of Congress and you good Icelanders looking at me here. My name is Tómas, called Tommi, and I'm back in a pita to discuss a very large, fair matter. We're recommending that the amount of vacation pay given from a pension fund at the same time be raised from $25,000. ... at 100,000K. I haven't yet met the man who is trying to convince me that a person can live at 260,260,000 dollars. per month. With this unjust system now, with a reserve of 25,000 credits, that means that the person who receives 220,000 bucks. ... inan old-age pension, 295,000 bucks. to the exchange. After that, if he gets more from his pension fund, the number he gets from a insurance institution will drop and he'll always get the same 295,000. This can't be more unfair. Who can survive 295,000 yards? in a month in this society we live in today's world? I don't know. I haven't met that man yet. I just want to talk about the pension fund and insurance, because it's been discussed here. It's a little subtle. In the old days, I remember being a bank, which I think promised the Industrial Bank, which was often advertised interest and interest on top of it. Hello. I was working out for fun that a person with 400,000 bucks. in a month's income, which is now not much of a month's wage, pays in a pension fund, with his employer's contribution and his own contribution of 60,000 k, which may be 15%, perhaps 15.5%, even. 60,000 k. a month in a pension fund. That 60,000 k. over a month for 40 years in 3% interest, 99 million that he has already collected during this time are translated. 99 million people have been working since 25 years of age until 65 years of age, with interest, interest, and interest on top of it, 99 million. K. But note one thing. There's no such thing as the pension fund I've heard about that doesn't grow from at least 5% yield on the head chair so that if we take the same 60,000 bucks, we can take it. 400,000 k. The monthly salary will make the accumulated pension fund 255 million. Think about it, 255 million by placing 60,000 dollars. every month in the bank and gain 5% interest. On the other hand, if you have a person with 600,000 bucks. In a month's pay, which is not high, but because today's average wage is 700,000, and saved for 40 years at 3% interest, which is not high interest, and I think all pensions would be able to cover 3% interest at 147 million. But if it were 5%, it would be 384 million that after 40 years he would save with these conditions, 5% interest and interest on top of it. So I say, the insurance is very unfair in this regard, that when they start taking it off, they get 56% of their monthly bills. There's some kind of crap in this account. I really want that accumulated savings to be reimbursed, each dollar. It's unfair to work and have tens of millions of accumulated, and it just disappears like dew before the sun. There are 7,000 billion in the pension fund today. They must be able to figure something out. Thank you, good nation.
