ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u1	A letter has been received by the chairman of a requested request to give a written application for this request. 483 on contact with stake prices and their registration, from Ásthildur Lóa Þórsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u2	A respectable president. Here I come up one more trip, not just to draw attention to the fact that the government is challenging the law to provide data to the council and to act on the work of the council that has been done for quite some time. Here we are talking about the treatment of applications for Icelandic citizenship. Now, in effect, the statement is that by refusing to comply with the practice that has been carried on. The General and Education Committee is reviewing the procedure - while it has not been formally declared that the work programme has been conducted until it is established by what kind of procedure we would like to conduct if we are going to change it, it can be said that a minister has managed to cut off the overall treatment of applications for Icelandic citizens's rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u3	A respectable president. This case is a particular test at the General Assembly because Iceland's Council is entitled to the legislation of legislation. According to a law set up by the General Assembly, the General shall legalize the citizen's rights. According to this same law established by the General Assembly, the National Institute of Iceland must give a review to the council to win these applications. Since a greater part of this council and the president of the General Assembly allow the National Institute of Iceland and Ministers to go against this obligation, the World Council is allowing the Commission to violate laws established by the General Assembly. Who is to take note of a council that does not even plead for itself when it is a violation of the procedure decided by the council, when a law committed by the council is violated? When we do not have self - respect in order to stand up to the executive authority when it offends us repeatedly, who should take us as the legal authority of the Icelanders? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u4	Mr. President. The flock is open, heard from those in charge these days in an unprecedented group of refugees. The hug is open because people somehow associate with the horrors of Ukraine. But where is the hug when it comes to handing over citizens' rights applications to the General Assembly? You see, he's a little closed, Mr. President. Why are these applicants different from the people we are open to? It's not very nice, Mr. President, and it's not humane for a quarter of a year to have these people put on donkey ears, and it's not respect for the General Assembly that the Senate itself is on donkey ears for quarter of a year. Minister has made it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u5	A respectable president. We're discussing citizenship again, but unfortunately, we haven't finished the applications received by the end of the last year. If I've just noticed, we've already received over half of the candidates who applied for citizenship to the Generals and reports from the Foreign Institute on the other part are expected in the coming days and weeks. I can say that it's too late, it's taken too long, it would've had to come a lot sooner. Like what? The General and Education Committee, in its time, wanted us to be through this before February 1. I expect we're about to finish this, but I also believe that we need to find a better kind of work. It sounds like a sound base for the Committee, and we're now working on putting a subcommittee on an General Education Committee that would suggest a change of shape so that we won't get back to the position we've been in before Christmas and we've been dealing with in the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u6	Mr. President. It is true that slowly we are getting the data that the Foreign Institute was supposed to have delivered to us in December. They're us getting delivered at a speed approved by the Foreign Institute of Iceland. These are the applications received by October 1st, which was an application deadline for the Senate's December release of applications for Icelandic citizen's rights. But what about applications received after October 1? Nobody knows. No one knows because the Foreign Institute has decided to change its ways. We wait desperately for the rest of the evidence that we don't know when to come. There's no way to tell. While the committee is doing a new job or reviewing this procedure, there are no additional applications. That's what I'm talking about when I say the Minister has managed to unplug the general route. People out there who are going to apply for citizenship today have no idea when they're going to do that, how or whether these applications will ever be paid, because they are very vague and uncertain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u7	Madam President. This is the key to the council and the role and responsibility of the president to follow up. Here's what it says. The head of the General and Education Committee: so we won't be back in the same position, so we won't be back in the same position again. - I'm sorry, the council had no place. The council was placed in this position by the Minister and Foreign Institute. It was pushed upon us by the secretary's decision not to let the envelopes and applications reach the council. It was the minister's decision, not the Senate. So the council did not come into this position. It was pressed upon us. It is the president to see to it that the procedure of the council can be carried out and that the minister will obey it, for we are now now a member of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u8	Mr. President. I agree with what's been going on here, and once again I challenge it. The General and Education Committee, and the Subcommittee, are now taking the case into their own hands and following the laws, just advertise for the applications, receive them all into the house. A few years ago, when you sent your applications directly to the General, there has been no change in the law. It was only a decision made in the Ministry. It's Generalis to complete this, that's the General's legal assignment. Now you have to stand in your feet against the Commission, which is against the law. It is our job to do so, to send a clear message. Don't be oppressed by this violence. Don't allow the law to be broken in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u9	A respectable president. I have to say again and make clear what I told you earlier that if the council doesn't stand up at the time of breaking commitments to the council, commitments legally and clearly made - The Foreign Institute of Iceland shall provide the data that the Congress needs to be able to deliver these applications, and it is the General Assembly to provide citizens's rights, it has a means of granting it. The body of elders who allow an institution to ignore their legal obligations is not a church council with self - respect. Why should people take note of the laws we put in if we allow people to violate the laws that are set on our work here, which we put on our own work? The matter of independence from the Commission is being undermined, and we are losing our self - respect with this confusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u10	A respectable president. 10 billion bucks. the costs have become due to the screening for the Covid-19 virus in this country. At the same time, the cancer club is not answerable as to whether a decent home for sick people who are fighting for their lives. Despite the fact that the cancer society has offered 400 million for construction, one - third of its construction costs, they do not get an answer. In this context, there are 800 million that the government needs to provide in 8% of the cost of screening. At the same time, those who are fighting for their lives are in too small a home where conditions are miserable, windowless space without room. The most amazing thing in this relationship is that cancer departments are not expected in the new construction of the Land Hospital, which costs tens of millions of dollars. A mental ward is not expected to be there, either. Do these diseases have anything outside the government, and why? For whom is this new building of the hospital, and what other illness or disease does it not receive? Hospitals where beds cannot be placed and new structures where certain diseases are not included are not acceptable and the government is shamed. To have to wait almost two months to find out that a family doctor is ridiculous. Is this because the government has financed the health care system, by canceling its pay and not making it up? Then the account on the basis of a health care unit was sent to the clinic itself and also to sick persons who need to see specialists and/or physical therapists. The people say: The people first, so much the other, but it's obvious that sick people are not the top priority for the government but business, where a business comes first, not sick people. Does this government need to step aside so that people will be in first place?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u11	Mr. President. Today, March 8 is the International Day of Women, and I congratulate women around the world by day. The equal struggle extends to all areas of society. Whether we look at sex - related violence, remuneration, employment market, or family life, we are far off in many lands. I'd like to discuss just one specific aspect of the status of women in the community. Women often have problems with the health system, they are less listening, and women are less sensitive to women's diseases than they are from other diseases. A large Canadian study concluded that women cut off from male surgeons were 15% more likely to have poor outcomes compared to women cut off by a female surgeon. Similar differences were not observed between genders of the physician when male findings were evaluated. Women under 50 were more likely to die for ten years after a heart attack than men. There are various reasons for different treatments following the events. In the United Kingdom, 28.1% of female appendix surgery is unnecessary compared to 12% in men. It is thought that this number could be considerably decreased by examining first other causes, e.g. menstrual pain, ovarian cyst and more In the dawns, a young woman who did not receive an audience fell from an audience until it was too late. She's not the first one, and she won't be the last one. Today is the International Day of Women, as well as the anniversary of Robert's birthday, a society of women's well - being, celebrating their nineth birthday. We are to be supportive of tests, hearing women, and ensuring equal and safe health care, regardless of gender.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u12	A respectable president. It's ugly to play, said the head of the Future Party, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, camped and loaded on TV the day before the last election. In fact, no one was bluffing, but of course, all, whether they are candidates or not, will agree with this general ethics that we teach our children every day. You see, it's a bad thing to fool. Those words were most unpleasant to me when a hearing of the replacement of the forward movement and the chairman of the Controversies here at the Assembly Hall last week. At that time, the words of the vice president of the advance and business minister, Lilja the daughter of Alfreðsdóttir, who had given much attention, were discussed that the overreaching of banks should be used to reduce the growth of homes. There was a threat that a bank tax would otherwise be reinvigorated. The rest of the government groups quickly shot it down, actually by the forced, polite expression that is often accompanied by a loveless marriage. The government had not discussed this, nor did she want to go that way. So the head of the advance party insisted here at the Council last week that the banks had listened to the business minister's words and applied them completely, completely. In other words, it is the opinion of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson that the banks grew less than they had otherwise because Alfreðsdóttir of Business had told them to do so. The truth is, there is no evidence that the business banks have done this. They responded in exactly the same way to the recent peaks of the Sentillium Bank, which they used to make for four times in the past year. Lilja's words did not change anything, as can be seen in a summary of the editors of the reactor he published four days ago. So after this, three things are stated: First, there were words of a businessman without any intervention. It was a political op to enhance the face of a government that proclaimed a low - interest environment before election, but it cannot survive. Second, this includes the view of the forward movement that independent business banks should listen to political whims when it comes to decision - making. And third, it's not fair to fool.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u13	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u15	Mr. President. This morning's cover of foreign languages was featured on the cover of the newspaper. Enclosed that in the course of the left green, party prime minister of Iceland and the head of the National Security Council, the institution has emphasized that this is neither a domestic nor a foreign military force, Iceland should stand outside of military alliances and resign from NATO. It's called the highest. Prime Minister: The name of the left green has not changed. Then it says the highest. Prime Minister: However, we respect the national security policy adopted at the General Assembly in 2017, but Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Community is one of its foundations. I reviewed a proposal for a hearing about national security policy for Iceland proposed by the then minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, in November 2015. There 42 senators voted for the proposal, but six sat by and including the current chairman of the National Security Council. But now it's claimed that left greens are behind the national security policy they have, I'd especially like to recall that there is a special account of the Congress that is the basis for national security policy. Section 4 presents the publication of the representative of the left movement with a green offer called on the shape of national security policy, which was the basis of national security policy. It says, after considering the case: The representatives of the WG Committee do not support the proposal and/or lead from Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Community. Accordingly, the current prime minister, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and the present ambassador to Iceland, Moscow, Árni Þór Sigurðsson, both then members of Congress. Mr. President. Is this some kind of political impossible that the Icelandic people now face? [[The president calls.]] Of course, that's impossible for the highest. The prime minister and chairman of the National Security Committee is speaking to a language that is so sincere in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u16	President. Why doesn't anything happen at the council? Why do we keep falling asleep on a committee all the time or being put forward over and over again and why do we do nothing but maybe an endless ES-induction that I think is mostly what happens here? I see a few reasons for that. For example, at the end of each assembly or Congress, a group of members of my body is simply dosed at the end of each council: you will receive one or two votes if you are good and pass the budget through. You can also have one or two other cases, but it has to be equal because there's a bean count in progress. In addition, every matter of Congress in the government is always the least of its terms. That's just what all government groups get to agree with one another, but nothing beyond that, whether there was more to it at the council or not. You see, it is important to realize that there could be more in the council for a case that could not pass through the government. It's happened. In fact, there were two such cases during the last assembly, the course of pregnancy breakers, and electric cigarettes. They were accepted regardless of members of the members of the council. You could do that more often. That would be an example. In addition, the Parliament's surveillance is absolutely minimal at the end of the greater part. We cannot examine the issues that have been agreed on whether they cost as much or as little as they were said to have, whether they succeeded or not. The result of all of this is that it really doesn't happen at all. Part of the independence party being in control for a long time, I don't know how many years, living in a camp still distant from the dream of some who may be interested in it. In fact, I think there would be more to that matter at the council if it came for a vote. But no, that's not how Congress works. It is the decision of the majority of the council to operate like this. You can do things differently.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u17	A respectable president. It's open. This is the message the directors send out to welcome refugees from Ukraine. But is that true? During the days, I have criticized the existence of providing protection to refugees from Ukraine. The current Icelandic legal environment, exactly now without any adjustments, is so that refugees from Ukraine should rightly apply for international protection that would give them shelter for four years. It would give them rights for family unity. It would give them right to work in Iceland. It would allow them to live on something other than the ignominious reimbursement of local support, which is what waits for Ukrainian refugees who don't get employment permits for one year with a chance of renewal, but it's always just this possibility. There is no guarantee that any longer the conflict will be reduced to something, not just to define Ukraine again as a secure state, as they did at the time of Ukraine's last national game in Iceland, I think. It is thus true that people from Ukraine should rightly and should have the right to apply for international protection in Iceland, but the government has decided that they will be granted leave by humanitarian grounds which, as I say, are worse rights, do not include professional rights and will have to rely on the financial assistance of a team member and in some way will need to find housing on their own roads as soon as they have this protection. This is a political decision, and this does not indicate that the hug is particularly open, at least not beyond this one year. It won't. You can do better than that. People have a right to make us better. Instead, the government chooses a way that allows them to set aside an application for international protection, put it aside for three years, and provide less protection for the three years. Giving people from Ukraine is not the best protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u18	A respectable president. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has completely changed the world situation and the challenges of Iceland, and this conflict and action will have long - standing effects. Clearly, the European Union must take on greater responsibility for its defenses. Most of them have already taken big and symbolic steps in that direction, Sweden, Germany, Denmark, Finland. But there is also a call for increased European cooperation in defense and security, not only in NATO but also in the European Union. Correction will suggest that major international participation in Iceland, including within the European Union, be proposed to be made up of a synopsis. It is likely that the protection and safety issues will be increased within the European Cooperative Work Programme, including Because of the United States' emphasis on other parts of the world, such as Asia, we know. Therefore, we feel the need to further ensure the safety of Iceland by our more active share in the European Union and by our full involvement in the EU. It's not just about your own safety. Just as it is vital that our voice be heard and that we do our part more fully to protect the values we see threatened and severely today. We need to take a stronger stand with other nations, and at the same time take our own interests with our active participation in international affairs and, most important, in the European Union. I want to, because I see that I have some more time left, making special use of this opportunity here, Mr. President, and pointing my words to the highest degree. Minister of child care. There are 2,000 orphans who will be taken, and Poland will receive and open her arms. Going to Israel is about 100 orphans. Today, there are thousands of orphans on the run in Ukraine. I'd like to encourage the highest. The Minister of Child Affairs to take the initiative and the decisive and open their arms so that these children can come here to safety. So we must do our part to make sure that our children can live in security.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u19	A respectable president. During the past few weeks, many people have had difficulty. We've heard of last night that disabled people who already struggle with difficult availability in general, even when the weather is best, have had to cancel medical visits and other basic services that have been difficult to get out of the house. We now have a wealth of requirements for executives to design and build on the basis of all-trap design. Simply put, it means that buildings are useful to all. In view of a move on the land, it is worth pointing out that the bioavailability of the community is not allowed to bind to weather. Bioavailability must also be assured that wintertime when snow is swallowed and affected. In this regard, it is stated that within the NATA, U.S. legislators on the ban on discrimination on the basis of disability, there are special regulations that require both public and private bodies to take appropriate measures to walk, parking lot, entrances, and public transportation as well as when snow is everywhere. This includes: find rules such as the cleansing of snow from parking lots, the decruption of the ribs, and the never - pile of snow in the disabled. There is also the possibility that sidewalks and corridors should be stable, and any entrance and exit must be free of snow and that buildings must be safe and readily available. Of course, there's more and more to be found there, but I don't think anyone in this room will feel anything at all. But it's just not quite good here, and it needs to be improved. With comparable legislation and the American I have mentioned here, they may open up charges for disabled people, thinking that they are discriminated against by inactivity in clearing snow. A respectable president. Such legislation would improve many and would contribute to the initiative of the government and private partners in ensuring access to everyone in the course and circumstances throughout the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u20	Mr. President. On the international day of women's struggle, we should be grateful for the struggle that has brought us to the place we are today. I'm not a mathematician, but I'd say about a million times better society. The problem, however, is that fighting for human rights is such that once we feel that we are in port, we risk relapse. We tend to think that the court is in order and thus do not have to fight anymore. That's what I think, for example. that Iceland's two - edged sword is always at the top of World Economic Forum's equality because it can train those who think of certain governments. Here's an equal paradise. That is what they usually say in foreign lands, perhaps believing it at the time of their return. However, there is not always a need to take the time to do the same. I looked through what was done during last term and found, for example. Parliamentary decision to act against violence and its consequences, a treaties plan, and a contemporaneous view of prevention among children and young people against sexual and sexual violence and harassment. All fine plans, but, as shown in a consultation process, before things came to the council, not ambitious enough, and not sufficiently financed. The government did not respond to these indications at an informative stage. Rather, it returned to the council some mutilated projections that the council sometimes and sometimes did not. The same is true in the following days when we take care of the operation program in gay affairs. It piled up envelopes from people who are prominent in the struggle for rights that pointed to self - determinations that were missing into the plan and also missing the money. I wondered, Mr. President, if it's time for the fight for equality to pay, not only in the conferences, but also in the action they suggest here at the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u21	A respectable president. The invasion of Pútín, Ukraine, has brought the Icelanders to life in international affairs, and today's first "blow - off story " is no longer the weather but the progress of the war today in Europe. Today's top U.S. Web sites report: Russia is threatening to turn off the gas. In fact, the terrible events of the past days and weeks have also opened the eyes of Icelanders and Europeans in energy, to the danger of Europe's becoming so dependent on Russian energy. The turning away from that course is vital. Energy and safety issues are closely linked, two sides of the same coin. While Iceland is on its own when it comes to energy, this situation will encourage us to speed up energy exchanges, encourage us to achieve the goal of becoming independent of fossil fuels. There are many challenges ahead, perhaps especially in the attitudes of various people to this grand task. It is fitting, then, that today a book of green was published at the top of the book. Environment, energy and climate minister on the position and challenges of Iceland on energy issues. It is important that we recognize the availability and demand of electricity, recognize the status of the transport system, and it is important that we discern the need for energy. When we have these things black and white, hopefully we can finally stop talking about the energy exchanges and start performing them.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u22	A respectable president. On the International Women's Day, there is reason to rejoice in success in equality and to point out work to be done. Equality does not come by itself, it is constant effort to maintain success and fight for further equality. There is a wide variety of social projects worldwide, and unfortunately, we are not just stages of progress, sometimes taking many steps back. The Ukraine war is such a setback. It takes on normal people and thus on equality. Families divide, women and children are badly affected. How appropriate, then, that UN Women in Iceland direct attention to the status of women and girls in Ukraine for the occasion! UN Women works every day to ensure the rights of women and girls worldwide and to pressure members of the United Nations to respect covenants that involve women and girls' rights. War has an increased likelihood of sexual violence, man - made war, and general need. Sadly, the news that women's bodies have become the scene of war in Ukraine, as has always been true in war. Women are forced to flee their homes with young children, leave a son and a mate, a son whom they had hoped to observe in sports, education, and work, not in wars, spouses, and brothers whom they do not know whether they will see again. Support based on women's needs is essential, especially to their perimeters. Let us take up the scales to support Ukrainian women and contribute to the opportunity to pursue peace, to arrive at the table. Peace is the basis for equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u23	Mr. President. When making important decisions, it is vital that men and women sit at the table and all voices be heard well. The tables can vary: the government table, the local convention board, the board that negotiates the purchases and ideals and the kitchen table where family members are divided into pieces. This also applies to the table where peace is attempted between warring states. On photos of those sitting at the Convention and trying to negotiate peace in the war of the Russian Army in Ukraine, no women are seen, which clearly shows that we have far to balance these matters. And in other areas, we have a long way to go. Remuneration in this country continues to be high between men and women, which is the discrimination of women throughout their lives. Less pay and part-time jobs give less pension at the end of the line. That's obvious. On the International Women's Day, I want us to talk about poor women in Iceland. At the minimum, they have very quick terms, and those who need to rely on the insurance system are in even worse cases. In the past, some 70% of the pensioners who have the lowest approved interest are women who had part - time jobs or homework. Among the worst are women of foreign background. This group of women has earned little or no rights to payment from pension funds, and they have very limited resources and resources for forwarding. But it seems that the government has not heard of their problems. The fight against income abuse and gender discrimination is in progress, and the Convergence will persevere in the equality struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u24	A respectable president. A house dress is human rights, and there are apartments to live in, not to skim with. During the past year, apartment prices in this country have increased by 16.6%. During just two months, the average purchase of apartments in the capital area increased by an total of 5 million. There's nothing normal about this, it's a mad real estate market, and the situation is a direct result of government economic policy and national housing mismanagement for years. A tenet may have produced a particular lie since a pandemic struck, but now there is a flash of air. We are seeing rent prices rise faster than prices, and this trend is likely to progress as tourists grow, and apartments return to Airbnb rent, and the economy takes over. Of course, this is totally predictable. Real estate prices and rent prices usually watch this in the long run. That's just the way it is. That's why it's embarrassing, and I'm going to be able to tell a total remand that the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir has not yet lived up to promises made in the signing of 2019 biographies of legal rights for tenants and reimbursement. Those promises were betrayed during the last term. The bill about this was now due to enter the council by the end of January. It didn't come. It was supposed to come by Congress, but it's still not in the mood. The fact is, we have much weaker defenses against tenants in Iceland than in many of the welfare countries we compare with. On whom? Yes, they are affected by the wealthiest, young people, immigrants, people who are vulnerable and vulnerable to increased rent prices for the next few months and years. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] In the long run, it is most important to build, build, and build cheap rent houses on social grounds, but we also need to set firm rules for rent baths, rent blankets, and raise rent prices before it is even more efficient. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u25	Mr. President. First, I want to congratulate all women on their women's fight day. During this day, I feel worthy to stop at the overlap of climate change and gender equality. Climate change is, as we know, not just righteous. Despite the global effects of drought, floods, and death, the fact is that the world's poorest and most peripheral areas, basically responsible for global greenhouse gas emissions, are the worst affected by climate. Women are particularly peripheral in this context. Research has shown that women worldwide are more likely to be affected by climate change and, at the same time, often do not reach them. It is clear that we cannot work with climate change without also working with the sex and vice versa, for while women are in many respects victims of climate change, they are also part of the solution. Studies show that climate operations on sensitive areas are strengthened under the leadership of women and are more likely to result in long-term results. Similarly, active participation in women can be powerful in society, thus increasing equality. Just last week's UNCC report on climate change was very focused on the participation of women in climate operations, but their role as pioneers when it comes to adaptation of peripheral climate change is going to be a key factor now that the consequences of climate change are under increasing pressure. This is something we here in Iceland need to maintain and we can support, e.g. through development support. The climate will focus on development support for the next few years. It is important that Western nations support a more peripheralized region in adaptation operations, and in this context, it is extremely important that we make sure that these measures take into account equality.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u26	A respectable president. Congratulations on the day, the International Women's Battle Day, which is dedicated to the battle for equality, equality, and peace, to name something. Yes, women have been on the lead for centuries when it comes to equalizing, equality, welfare, and peace. It's not women who lead nations to war. However, it is women who work to provide shelter. For this reason, I would like to go to a difficult place with us, highlighting the terrible fact that it did not take a week of Russian invasion in Ukraine until the female body became a battlefield in that horrible war. Women and girls are subjected to gross sexual abuse and mutilation, all for power, violence, and war, and are made to weaken a nation's defenses. Sadly, though, this is an unscrupulous mark of armed conflict but also a cruel attack on the most sacred of all. It's a total disgrace. It all seems permissible in this cruel, mad man's warfare. Let's remember this. When discussing the war in Ukraine, let us always bear in mind that nothing is suspended. We're supposed to do everything we can to end this war. We're supposed to do everything we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u27	Mr. President. Housekeeping is not like any other consumer product that is to be subject exclusively to the laws of the market. Building is a natural human right and a means of access that housing is fundamental, at least in a powerful welfare community. Over the last few years, government action has not worked, so many people's housing situation has deteriorated. Instead of working for long - term solutions, governments have rather tried to extinguish fires. In some cases the government's actions have even exaggerated the problem by promoting a demand without any powder in the structure. Since the deportation of the social apartment system from the Independence category and the advance category by the turn of the century, housing for people under the average income has increased and there has been an increase in the fluctuation of housing markets. In 2016, a law on general apartments and regulations for building rent-insurmounted renters was certainly a step in the right direction, but social apartments are still too few, and an attempt to restore the social housing system is still in full prime phase, Mr. President. From the Habitat, for example, data show that in 2005 the number of people living in narrow houses increased from 25,000 to nearly 50,000 people in 2018, and this trend simply needs to be reversed. This remains in the case of an increase of 40% of extracurricular income in the last 25 years. It is anticipated that the problems of many will be increased by enormous increases in housing markets and by growing interest levels. The load of payment on the mortgage continues to gain weight, rent increases, and it becomes increasingly difficult for rent - rent people to get into the real estate market. The conditions we see in the house - to - house market today are one of the results of our lack of proper social housing. A basic policy change in housing is needed to create a healthy housing market for the long future. We in the United States believe that the solution involves large amounts of donations to build an economic home. It reduces fluctuations and negative effects on prices and growth. This is the best way to increase the cost of housing and supply. However, it is a long-term project that the government must make in cooperation with the labor movement, housing in an unfavourable business, and in cooperation with all members of this body at the council. It is not a normal situation that a certain part of the nation cannot afford to own, even rent on the market price today. This is true of the busiest people, e.g. Single parents, young students, disabilityrs, and older citizens The cost of living is the largest cost of most homes and the cost of real estate markets, a major change in growth and inexplicability to rent, promoting insecurity and poverty in the country. Hence, the government has a heavy responsibility and is to exercise its authority firmly. In addition to increasing economic stability and secure areas, governments can also, by their design, set quality requirements, access to public transport, and increase innovation in the development of buildings. Mr. President. The first step is to speed up social housing as long-term policy is developed. The members of the United States have already proposed a social building proposal in which we suggest that the Allied Government should promote the general housing system through the construction of 500 rent- and farm-seat-proofing services per year beyond what has already been determined and done in cooperation with housing companies in an unfashioned business. This resolution is one of the Union's priorities end up safe housing of spontaneous human rights. Now that we're sailing into dress-offs, housing is going to have to play a very important role and may be able to determine how this will work. The need is great, and it is clear that the government's urgent action on housing will no longer be expected. I encourage the government. Another four - year deterioration in housing is not available.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u28	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson for starting this important subject. The government has already set a staff for improvement in housing markets designed to provide additional opportunities to meet the cumulative and predictable residence needs for longer and shorter periods. The work group includes representatives of the state and community as well as a collective workforce. The group is now working, and the goal is to provide suggestions on how to expand their housing supply to meet the need. To date, the lack of perspective on growth and follow-up has been in line with the housing programmes established by the rural communities. But now at the end of 2021, and at the beginning of 2022, the rural communities have provided digital housing programmes to HMS, where for the first time they will provide consistent information on the assessment of rural society of the need and the development of rural society on how that need should be met. For the first time, therefore, data are available on the overall needs of the country, heat supply and estimated structure down to the year. At the same time, we will appear in HMS Real Time Information on the number of apartments in a building, so we will now be able to observe practically in real time how rural development programmes work. We did not have this information a year ago and we did not even have three months ago, but it is on the basis of such information that we want to shape our policies and assess the need for support to contribute to the stability of this vital market. Transfering real estate files to HMS is part of the same thing. The minister is here given a high priority on the construction of social housing throughout the country and has provided suggestions for financial management in the years 203/2027 on a significant increase in funds to expand the building of apartments by public housing, such as increasing building within the general living system, sharing loans, rented apartments, and property camps in the country. In recent years, the State has established a third of the new apartments, and my interest is being shown to increase this proportion under existing circumstances to ensure increased housing security between different social groups, including older people and disabled persons, as stressed in government covenants. Then they're on the market for registration as soon as possible here for the council. A respectable president. The overall housing system has given way and is generally at peace with them. In fact, rural areas in the capital area have been involved in various aspects of its structure, and it is important to ensure access to as many and most of them as possible. The development of the system has been slowed down and to address it, at present, 31 rural areas in the region have come together to establish the Brow's housing sector, which will maintain the structure of the overall housing system outside the capital area. The government's vision of the future on housing is clear, and in a government contract it shows what action the government intends to take in the terms of the election. These include integration of the classes of languages by uniting housing, organizational matters, transport and rural administrations under one department, integration of programmes in these sectors, special efforts in building rent halls within the general housing system for disabled persons, older people and others living in high housing costs, improving housing security and rights of tenants by a solid law, consistent application alert on housing and accessible information supplies, and continuing to work with sharing loans to support the early buyers. It should be supported by a sufficient long-term construction agent's supply, providing detailed real-time information on the housing market and contributing to the eco-efficiency of workers and contractions of the construction industry. It's a complex project, it's not far from here. A senator, taking his time. And in the end, a review of regulations and intensification of digital organisations in planning and building matters should be undertaken to reduce the cost of building without the cost of quality or universal design. There are great opportunities to simplify the order of planning and building. It's true, as we have seen, that in 2016 the overall apartment system was set up. It has been assigned 18 billion and, in fact, has included nearly 3,000 apartments. The 2019 hired partner Briet, who is an unfavourablely house - to - house member of the north. Bríet now runs 210 apartments in 38 rural communities. By the end of 2020, sharing loans we know are for the poor of the first buyers. There have been about 600 approved applications and over 300 loans supplied, so many have been done. But there's more to it than that, I agree. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u29	A respectable president. In general, there is a country partner's house - to - house operation, and they really need to dress up for bridges and to cover off not too expensive and make sure that there is no written process. This must be done immediately. New neighborhoods must be organized for building up, especially in the capital area where the demand is highest. The Kingdom must support such action in all its possible means, for it is a real emergency in a facility, and the State cannot take responsibility for it. As always, a lack of hands is worst for those who have mentioned them. It is also true of the lack of housing markets when prices rise up completely, as is the case today. Pronunciation is not an exception. It is the principle of housing today. There are literally overcrowded properties, and there are too many of them. This situation is of only benefit to investors, for now there are many profits in having a home. In the past few weeks, I personally know that property has been paid on the table. Where that money comes from, I don't know. But the other thing, I know there's no such thing as the range of ordinary people who are trying to get themselves and their roof over their heads. In fact, it is called a seal market, and it is true that the sellers receive a good price for their possessions; yet, most of them will buy property and then land on the other side of the table. So over that brain, no one benefits from this condition. Everybody's going to lose. Although the role of rural governments is to cover property and, although it is being built more now than many years in Reykjavík, the building of apartments could be managed for all too many years in the capital, as well as in other rural areas, so, unfortunately, more structure does not tell the whole story. Happily, though, progress is far too slow, and the fact is that the structure is not enough. More than 15,000 apartments are missing in the capital area already, several hundred apartments are like a drop in the ocean in that condition. Now you have to plan a new neighborhood, e.g. In Kölldnaholt and rapidly building a new Breinholt It was supposed to be on the move a long time ago, but better late than never. I need this started today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u30	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion here. The special policy of housing is one of the cornerstones of the Independence Party. The possession of income groups consists of pension rights and the value of their own housing. People choose to have a roof over their heads, and they seek financial independence. That is why we independents have emphasized the importance of first - century purchases. We've made it possible for the first buyers to make use of their own tax-free money to buy real estate and settle the gaps for individual income and possessions to be bought first by share loans. A respectable president. Cutting the plunger rods out of the full would be a good way for these groups. We want to secure everyone's roof with a powerful social housing system. The general apartments are built by the founding of countries and rural communities and by improved housing security for smaller families, individuals, and young people. From the year 2016 onward, more than 1,000 apartments have been used and nearly 2,000 more apartments are in construction. Investment in this new housing system is 93 billion dollars. When all the apartments are in use, some 10,000 Icelanders will be in social facilities that were not previously entitled to do so. The balance of housing is important. To meet the great need and balance of the market, adequate housing and rapid structure must be ensured. A respectable president. Since the 2013 administration of the Independence Party, support for the first buyers and consumers of the country has increased dramatically.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u31	President. What's the situation? Or rather said, "What was the situation? " HMS has appreciated this matter so that 27,000 apartments would be built until 2030. This has increased recently, but this was what lay ahead of what is being done right now. There were 3,500 apartments built each year for the next ten years or so in order to meet the persistent needs of unrecovered apartments. The analysis of the apartment loans previously stated that an average of 1,830 apartments were needed each year, as the situation was then. This is exactly the situation in which rural society has to plan its own plans. These are simply the facts of the matter, a persistent and unfilled need to be built at 3500 apartments a year to make it up, and more, according to the latest analysis. In Reykjavík, an estimated one third of the population, a third of the rest of the capital area, and another third of the area outside the capital area. So a third of the new apartments would be located in Reykjavík, the third part of the area near Reykjavík, and a third of them. Still another fact is that last year 48.5% of new apartments were built in Reykjavík, 54% in 2020, and 44% in 2019. This simply means for all who want to criticize the lack of housing and based on facts at the same time that Reykjavíkurburg is the last rural society to be criticized for the amount of apartments. Furthermore, in view of social housing, Reykjavíkurborg's plans expect 25% of all apartments to be built on the roads of a non-employable housing company. This is still added to the fact that 76% of the social rented apartments in the capital area are owned or cared for by the city of Reykjavík, according to the subterranean article. I do a little more closely in the statistics of social apartments in my second speech in this discussion, but a precise answer to a number of social apartments was received from my inquiry in 2017. Sadly, though, my new request for evolution has not been answered since then.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u32	A respectable president. The role of the government in housing is to ensure the security of everyone, to provide adequate housing for the living that meets different needs, resources, and circumstances, and to provide financial support to those needing it. This is in harmony with the UN's global goal, with security being a fundamental human right. I want to thank you very much. headmaster for the review of the government's decision-making activities and on rhythms. The government's policy on housing is clear; to increase the budget of the overall housing system and increase the share of social housing and rented housing. In the implementation of a housing initiative group, in agreement with the labour market partners and rural areas for review of rent law, the objective is by permission of the President: To improve the legal status of tenants and to ensure permission in planning laws to require that up to 25% of the number of buildings on a new network are for general apartments, social apartments, or other rented camps, whether the owner is a rural society, state, or private property. This policy is closely concerned with what was said here today, and it embraces, notably, those that are bordered on housing markets, which are tenants. In light of historically low growth as a result of growth, temporary measures by the public due to the Covid-19 increased demand for housing. It was an operation that, at least, helped many of the early buyers into the housing market, but it does not change the need for more apartments. The assessment of the Homing and Mobilization Agency showed that in 2021 non-filled housing needs would be about 4,450, but population growth was 31% higher than predicted, so the need is probably about 800 apartments higher. In order not only to keep up with this population but also to reduce the high prices of real estate with increasing supply, the government will continue to build social housing, build public apartments, and rented apartments, and meet these urgent needs of society.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u33	A respectable president. In view of the ratio of social rent, there are many facts of interest. An article published on November 25 of the past shows that there are nearly 80% of social apartments in the capital area in Reykjavík. Reykjavík has over 20 social apartments per 1,000 people. In Kópavogur, more than 11, at Hafnarfjörður, they are about ten, their four Mosfellsian ornaments, and Seltanes drive the train with three apartments per 1,000 inhabitants. Smokeynestown has approximately 230 social apartments on their side, making them more than 11 apartments per 1,000 inhabitants. These numbers are pointed into the eyes, and it is obvious that rural society takes this role, providing poor people with income, less serious, and less serious ones. For each apartment puts on the market as a social flat, the need for a common market reduces. The fact that Reykjavíkurburg has 78% of social dwellings in the capital area, with a range of 55% of the total capital area, shows that other rural communities have to dress up and do some serious thing. I'd like to wonder here if it's not time to put some minimum scale on the rural communities so that they're doing this sort of thing so that it's all right. In spite of meeting all conditions, underdeveloped workers are not allowed to live in a social home, so they need to look for a solution to the general tenet or to look into other systems that are prepped. By fixing this, a respectable president, we would improve the situation considerably at the demand side.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u34	A respectable president. I want to thank the advert for this discussion. Of course, no one has been overlooked for a long time in the land's housing market. It's not just, unfortunately, the group discussed here and the social housing systems that have been developed in this context. We're in a position to have a heat supply that's far too small. Some argue that weights should be shelfed; others say that weights should be the luxury product that many people live in today's world. It has been so, though, that if we watch, for example. on the rescue of an apartment society, there are 1,300 apartments, either complete, rented, or in the process. Bríet has hundreds. I don't have the numbers straight, but it seems to me that in spite of all of this, there was a solution to the mobilization of new property from rurals in the past few years. I'm not cutting down the problems there is, but I think we're forgetting groups that are on opposite sides of the group that enjoy this service. On the one hand, those who do not receive this payment, who are registered on a register, or what it may be, who have a great opportunity to get their way into a house, and on the other hand, it is the middle party that's probably going through, despite all of today, getting up a roof over their heads. The group in the general urban market and is delivered because the offer is far too small and the reason for this small supply is limited. There is no need for funding. Building up is not a lack of hard work. There's no land. As long as we don't talk about the core, the core problem is that we don't get much ahead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u35	Mr. President. In this country, economists have fought for social housing at the side of the labor movement. The Norwegian countries have succeeded in over 100 years of social housing. We are now in that situation in 2022 to have to build a social apartment system after it was laid down in its time. Hence, the officers strongly objected, and in the spring of 1998, it is minimally remembered the longest talk that has been held from this sermon as former prime minister and president of the United States, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, moved to protest the destruction of the forwardness and independence party of the social housing system. House security is a foundation of well - being. Children's success in a tenacious tenet is dependent on families in housing problems that often need to be moved between school districts. The European Union of Iceland's economist party stresses that governments produce and fund long - term objectives in the construction of social housing systems and the aims will be agreed with rural communities, union unions, and nonprofit housing institutions. There is a great lack of social housing all over the country. State plans and rural society must work together. The government has to agree on a large supply of housing for income and chemical families. Low incomeers cannot afford to buy housing and rent in a public market is very high, e.g. showing rent checks that 70% of the sufferers pay more than 30% of their revenues in rent. Of that group, about one third pays more than one half of its provisions for rent. Reykjavíkurburg is most prominent in the building of social apartments, as this discussion has earlier shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u36	A respectable president. We will discuss the future of social housing in Iceland. We see the ongoing problem that housing supply is very limited in this country. This certainly affects the future of social and private housing. The demand is growing each year, but the offer is not there. This problem is written on the various phases of the administration, but we have to look to those who make up the property and plan for it. It is necessary to define the responsibility of rural society when it comes to securing the availability of social housing and other housing. There is a need for rural society to be built enough to provide housing, as well as social housing, to be sufficient. Companys are not allowed to be drafted in the fight against the housing problem. In this context, take, for example, the city of Reykjavík. The majority of the mayors have declared that 1,000 apartments will be distributed each year when the need is over 4,000. It is not hard to see that there is a need to spit on your hands if your policy is to improve your housing market and contribute to its overall future. It is important to follow a possible stand, and we need to secure and distribute the supply across the country, but we could also look for further expansion of the share loans established by the forward and on our watch during the last terms of interest. Clearly, there are many assignments under the rule of the government in these matters. These tasks are urgent. We all have to put our hands together to ensure the future of social housing in Iceland and the first step is to ensure an adequate supply.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u37	A respectable president. I concluded my first talk by saying that most of them are in the capital area, with a careful estimate of 15,000 apartments missing. By permission of the President's address on the home of Reykjavík, New York City, says: THE city's greatest building program continues, but last year a new construction plan for 1,285 new apartments in Reykjavík [...] began building in 1,065 new apartments that were divided into apartments, 40 in serials, 12 in bi farms, and 20 in private. The figures are based on building permits.◯ There are about 8% of the requirements, so that you can do better if you want to do it. The need is far greater than this. According to the 2019 Substitute Bank report, the need for new apartments is approximately 1800 a year. Why have the structural structure not been greater for more years, and why, after a 20% increase, is it still only 70% of what it would have had to be in each year for many years? This problem could have been avoided if things had been different, especially with the largest country society in the country. For social housing development, the same is true. There's a shortage. A social apartment must clearly be built to meet the needs of those in need of social resources, but social housing is not a solution to the existing lack of information and will remain for the next few years does not result in major projects immediately during this spring. We must guard against thinking that social housing is a solution to the supply problem because there is not enough market property for demand. The development of social apartments needs to be greatly increased, but as is the case with the increase in the availability of possessions at non-efficient prices in 101 high-end towers. Alternatively, this situation will not improve in the predictable future. The situation in housing has rarely been worse than now, and this structure needs to begin right away in spring. We've got to build a new Breinholt, and the government has to come to this job in cooperation with our communities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u38	A respectable president. Once again, we'll discuss the situation at the housing market, which is for a reason. For some reason, it seems that in Iceland we have never been able to keep our real estate balance. Therefore, we know well the headlines, such as the U.S. Army, in a real estate market soon, a global temperature in a real estate market, and a even a sector of housing was anticipated. All of these, though, are headlines from 2004, 2055, and 2008. V.E.G. A minister admitted that finally it looks like we're getting real-time information about the real estate situation. This, of course, is a complete key, one that has been called left behind for over a decade. I think it's the highest. A minister, now a woodmaster, is just one of the keys that we try to prevent the constant swing of this market. Here we will discuss a special social home that, of course, matters. However, it seems that in the past the measures taken by the government to meet the worst have often led to an even greater fluency or expansion of the market and, of course, the greatest reaction to the halls of the legs. Thus, the key point here must be an increasing, steady supply of property and variety of housing. It is the only way that we can achieve real results for a longer time in these substances. Then I'd also like to take advantage of the opportunity to sound the greatest. Ministers, for a 2020 OECD report included 316 reforms on the construction program. To what extent have these suggestions been followed?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u39	President. As I said in my first talk, a third of the population in Reykjavík was built up in 48% of the new apartments in Reykjavík last year, 54% in the previous year, and 44% in 2019. It simply means that if the rest of the capital area and the country had been building their own proportion of apartments, we would have met the need for living up to the need for an apartment, namely, by the House and Mansicults Office. 3,500 apartments. By the end of the last year, however, new numbers from Houses and Civilization Institutes showed that the need was even greater. Farmers will have to update the figures on how many apartments to build in the years to come. It was necessary. It was lying in the air. It has been said that the direction of Reykjavík is to build 1,000 apartments, i.e. the minimum of 1,000, and according to the old plans, it was enough to meet the need for apartments which were present according to the plan of the House and Managing Agency. It was simply according to government formula, the State, the need for an apartment, the way a house plan was made. Once the Homing and Managing Organization has been updated, this programme will definitely need to be accepted by the rural community. It also takes to build too much. It's also hard to do, it's causing disaster. It's really hard for people who have committed themselves to trouble in recent years. If apartment prices fall, we'll be in the same situation as we were here after a crash, i.e. That debt will be much higher than the value of apartments. That's a problem too. It is difficult to balance this situation, and so it is now that Reykjavík has carried out his role and interests and has more than 48% of all social facilities in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u40	A respectable president. First, I'd like to state that I agree with a verbal veneer and another wrangle. In terms of the problem with housing markets, it is urgent and demand action, but I would like to keep it in place again if about 30% of new buildings during the last term were on the streets of the government just so that the demand for new housing was not enough. But better yet, it is clear that in order to deal with simply the lack of housing, further action by the government will be needed. But there is also a need for a building beyond what the government can provide. If we look to the northern regions, we will see that there are quite different priorities when it comes to the housing market. Sweden, for example, has developed strong contracts for renting, and Denmark has built a strong foundation without profit. Meanwhile, a housing market in Iceland and Norway rests in much of the historical fact that most people buy housing. The house - to - house system needs to deal with the changing circumstances and to protect the group that is likely to experience the consequences of burdensome housing costs, both in property and rent. True, about 75% live in an Icelandic housing market, but we need to take special care of the tenet - rent group and build with a greater variety of housing resources. We need to consider that people do not pay more than 25% of their income for housing expenses and have real options between rent, property, or home estate. I believe that we are looking at further development of adverse farm resources, since this is likely to affect public markets. This, of course, is fundamental to organizational matters. A vision must be molded for the future, and hopefully it will be the highest. Minister of wood in his closing statement better into the plans of his Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u41	A respectable president. In the 2015 labour market agreements it was concluded that the State would set up 2,300 apartments in the next four years. The target was not reached, including because it didn't seem to be a big interest in the business of an unfortunate tenant. The conclusion was finally that the entire labour market organization, ASI and BSRB, founded the hired society to save an apartment society, which had the purpose of building and renting apartments for hardworking members. By providing so - called stock donations, you can offer rent, which is considerably below market rent. There are more unfortunate land unions than savers who are doing this sort of thing, such as the Bible Students' Building Association and Society, such as Braun ◯ House Fund, which builds a rental apartment for desperates. Since the source of the Rock, 552 stores have been delivered to tenants, 348 apartments are in design and/or construction, and 235 are in preparation. It has been found that the need for a society like that of Save was truly there. This activity can be claimed to be part of the social housing system. At the same time, so - called share loans are to the social housing system, which have helped many young buyers to obtain their first apartment. The situation, however, is that they need to be raised, since prices have increased dramatically, and loans have failed to comply with these prices. A respectable president. All these systems can be strengthened, and this would increase the provision of housing and support and support for young people even more so as to get to a safe home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. In the preceding discourse, a candidate said the importance and need for a contract to reach rent prices compared to the general market. Of course, there are genreable factors that make sure your roommate is able to do that. But what matters most, that I think, for us in the long run, is there ways to reduce the cost of housing. As long as property deficiency is as high as it is and has been, balance in terms of prices is not likely to exist. I'm not worried about temporary correction, if there's a cover-up on real estate prices, it'll recover over a longer period of time. We need to get to a location where we can build in areas that offer practical structure, not just on densely populated areas, where each inch is more expensive. We need to find a place where companies, such as these have been named, the problems, and those designed by trade unions and others who have the goal of offering as little rent as possible, will get on with their work. But we must not forget the large number of people who will be in the general apartment market. That market's all fucked up right now. There's a huge amount of land in that market. As long as there is no supply, the problem will not be resolved. It's just that way. I think it would be an improvement if the point was first in terms of the problems that must be tackled as we seek ways to reduce construction costs with simple rulework and opening of a more efficient apartment without too much regard for quality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u43	Madam President. It's a hell of a thing, sir, that here members of Congress run the corners of the city of Reykjavík, which, according to all figures, have made the most of their success in the country. The comparison, of course, is taken by rural communities around here who have successfully survived. But I actually have the blood for duty, and I want to mention another community that's also doing well and that's just coming to the heels of Reykjavík, and that's Akureyritown. These two rural communities share the common view that independence has been kept from power there for more than two terms of terms. However, there should not be any connection. Two years ago, I made a conquistador proposal to meet certain percentages of rural areas in the country when it comes to social housing. Who knows? I'm gonna bring her back after this discussion, and I'm gonna come forward. But I'd like to direct one question to the highest. Minister for the rest of his fine story back here. He spoke of a bit of money in the budget of 2023How226, but there does not seem to be much leeway in the current budget. That is why I ask, " How will a minister bring in money? ' Is he referring to delivering it from other groups of people, or how will he do this? Of course, it speaks for itself, and it does not mean that there is much space. It would be nice, then, to get an answer from the highest level. Minister on how he intends to do this. Or else I'll thank you for your excellent conversation and I'll tell you what's going on. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson called for in his day, showing that the situation of rural areas here in the capital area depends entirely on who is in control and who is kept out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u44	Madam President. About a question why. Einarsson We're just winning it, and it's gonna be clear when it's submitted. However, there are many indications that in recent years we have done even better than we thought and were quite satisfied. I hope it will work. I would also like to thank you for your financial discussions, although there are certainly all kinds of persons who want to maintain their air or blame something. Let's see, Mr. Honorable President. What I want to say is that we have a plan. I would like to end my case today to report that in the next few days, I intend to appoint a group to shape a housing policy for Iceland, the first, which will be undertaken in broad consultations with stakeholders in many parts of society and will be expected to be submitted to the General Assembly for approval in the form of a council agreement. If my plans are to continue, it will be laid up to the point that in the next few years, large areas of housing will be possible in this country and that it will be determined to build up to 20,000 apartments over the next five years, with 7,000 of which the direct or indirect appearance of the official is in the form of a variety of housing support or legal environment. In other words, we plan, we have a whole plan. It has not been overlooked that those responsible for the position of housing are not agreed on for the reasons of large increases in housing in Iceland. We heard it here today. In my opinion, it is clear that this disagreement will not bring us anything forward and cause unacceptable positions. Now is the time to put aside this dispute and those bright ones. In the past, we, the state, our community, the partner of the workforce, and the construction industry must look forward to the future and create a balance in housing. The establishment of a new superintendent, aided by housing, organizational, and rural issues, transport and geographic matters, is an important factor in reaching the need for perspective so that progressive steps can be taken to achieve balance. It is clear, however, that all who come into housing need to do their part in the work that lies ahead. And, yes, we have a vision, we have a plan, and it's becoming clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u45	Madam President. I hereby recommend an action plan on the affairs of queer people for the year 2022/2025. The Treaty of the current government recommends a series of action plans and is the first that merely concerns gay people. In recent years, Madam President, there have been some efforts to improve the position and rights of gay people, and in the historical setting, we can review a number of milestones in those matters to form marriage laws for all regardless of sexual orientation that went into effect twelve years ago, a law on the legal rights of a person who was approved two years later, which included steps to ensure important human rights of a person. I can review a law on sexual autonomy that was agreed to 2019, and by the end of 2020, there were three expeditals adopted to be associated with the law of those who can change their age in accordance with gender awareness from 18 years to 15 years, the right of children born with atypical physical immunity, and were also adopted laws on the change in various laws to ensure that the legal rights of people with sexual records and other people. This arrangement is based on 19 projects designed to define government policy and describe specific tasks aimed at improving the social status and rights of queer people. Their responsibility lies at the hands of ten counselors. All these projects are linked to the UN's global aim for sustainable development in the same way as the actions of an equal rights programme. The Justice Department's Office overseed this strategy, and it was called for ideas and comments to the progress plan, it was consulted with the equal agent of all recruitments, and sought for comments from experts. It was also consulted with the gay interest group of people who arranged for a team of working men to meet with the Ministry experts in the implementation of the Action Programme. The synopsis proposal was introduced in a government consultation on January 8 through February 8 of the past. There were 17 reviews and reviews, and some were taken into account, including followed by a follow-up in the implementation of a health-care programme for children and young people, the role of a child-adolescent team on sexual function becomes clearer by establishing the services to which the team should provide to those who are looking for it. It was also added to the operation on the change in blood transfusion regulations aimed at eliminating the discrimination of blood transfusions on the basis of sexual orientation. To ensure follow-up of these procedures, a panel will be set, as has been done on a project in an equality policy programme and a child prevention programme for sexual violence and harassment, which enables follow-up to make action available and clear. In Iceland, millions of years of rights battles have brought us back, and in this country, there have been many improvements in the past year and years. I mentioned the above law on sexual autonomy which strengthens the right to choose the person to define his or her gender in accordance with his own experience and the right protection of children born with atypical sexual traits. However, I must also mention the change that became a law on equal positions and sexual rights, but it was formerly the equal position and right of men and women, since it is not only taken to men and women but also to those who have neutral genders. However, even though we have reached various stages, such as the one I've traced above, it is important not to relax but to continue and do better. The fight between gay people like other equality and human rights is in constant shape, and it doesn't end even if we reach certain goals. A queer case is relatively new in the administration system but has now received its defense of the Office of Equal Opportunities in the Ministry and there is knowledge and experts working on a variety of damages in the seminary. A significant expertise was developed in the legislation on sexual autonomy, and I would particularly like to mention a sex-specific autonomy report and the suggestions of a team on the subject of children born with atypical sexual traits, which actually laid the crucial basis that followed. Madam President. In spite of changes in legislation, as well as changes in social attitudes, changes in culture, queer people still have the controversies that need to be discussed and sought to eliminate them. In order to promote a more objective discussion of the status of gay people, education is important at all levels and to meet these factors, many of the initiatives in the programme are subject to education and awareness on the issues of gay people. Four actions are directed toward educational assignments, training for police, education for elected representatives and staff members of the countryside, education for government rulers and education about queer children in sports, hobbies and youth activities. It is interesting to note that there was specifically a question about the need for instruction for those who are working with children, both in schools and at leisure, at a church meeting held before the weekend, so this was high in the minds of children who would sit there and discuss human rights matters specifically. Furthermore, research, mapping, and attitudes scans related to the status of queer groups in society are emphasized and thus a total of six procedures are involved in the mapping, assessment, and scans related to gay people, their status and rights. This is an assessment of the bioavailability issues of people in public spaces and workplaces, of the attitudes and status of queer people in the labour market, which are two actions, a study of domestic violence in queer families, with special emphasis on the status of queer children and young people in families, and an assessment of the well - being of queer children in the school system, which suggests that this group has not been given sufficient space in the routine studies performed in children and young people at school. Most important of all, there will be a total attack on the situation and mapping of the status and rights of gay people in Iceland. The setting of regulations and regulations together with a change in law and regulations is subject to five measures. This is my testimony to health care directives, to the regulations related to public access of people to public transport, to the need for blood transfusions. A single procedure involves the sentence of a team's sexuality hospital, changes in sexual characteristics, and is further recommended for changes in general penal law dealing with hatred speech and hate crimes. This is a very important case that has been discussed at the General Assembly. It is also clear that there is a great deal of discussion on this exact matter in the queer community and full reason to take action as a result, as well as on changing legislation, as this seems to be a problem that is growing as judged by the public talk. The international action programme stresses that Iceland stands here to protect the rights of queer people throughout the world, highlighting the issue of its foreign policy, and I want to mention it specifically, as mentioned in the report, that one of the issues that were stressed when Iceland took place in the United Nations Human Rights Council was a place of queer people. This operation program, Mrs. President, takes a big step in improving the rights and positions of gay people. She's part of getting Iceland in the best order in gay people's affairs. It is important that we put human rights in the foregrounds of all that we do, and there we need to look at the situation of different groups because improving gay people's status will not only matter to that group but it will make the community all better. It is not expected that this proposal will interfere with the expenses of the budget, but the projects of the programme will be included in the financial rights of nonsurgents, which, of course, will be costing one of these projects, which should be included within the current budgets. Madam President. I'm not going to read from this plan any further. I just want to say it matters that we realize that this fight, as I said before, never ends. This plan is not a complete answer to everything we have to do better in this category, but it is my sincere conviction that it can significantly improve the position of gay people in Iceland. I suggest that when this discussion is concluded below the suggestion will be referred to. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u46	Madam President. Thank you very much. However, there may be some misunderstandings. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister to the fact that there is a plan for action in the affairs of gay people and that you can see there is a connection between something already approved here at the council and also a point that the Minister has specifically declared that he has made the decision to make. I'd like that, for example. For example, there is a change in apheresis, treatment, preservation and distribution of blood, which is 18 counts in the synonym. Before the election, a public health minister announced that she had decided to change a law order so that queers could donate blood. So city and town were welcomed, but it seems that it did not perform the theocratic change that was in hand with her to carry out her words. I'd like to ask a few questions about this, why are we suddenly involved in this operation plan? I'd also like to ask for information on health care, number 17, which is involved in further explaining the role of the Children and Teenagers' Team on the subject of sexual consciousness when it comes to services to persons who are subject to the law and what special services it is necessary to ensure those who are looking for the services of the team. Now it is so, Madam President, that there's been some super-important waiting for the transvestite team to go to the Land Hospital and I wonder if we should be really spending a lot of energy on going to some kind of study of this, if we're not going to concentrate on shortening a waiting list to prevent irreparable damage to children.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u47	Madam President. For the second thing, as for the rest, there is. They are mentioned by a senator by the opinion of those who know best about this law that it is very important to explain the position of children under 16 years of age in which requests for irreversible changes are made on the basis of the 11th law. The law and the need to define better advice on conservation of sex cells and fertility measures. I can only agree with that. How important it is that we take up the wait for this service, and this action is not intended to minimize that important assignment! That's where I think we're going. A senator would agree completely. In this regard, however, these indications have been made after the law is given that it is relevant to enhance the importance of these specific factors. With regard to the Regulation as of any given moment. A senator asks for a blood transfusion, so there is a fact that the Regulation has not been changed. Prominent changes were introduced. In that case, considerable comments were made. These changes have been asked, and this is why the current health minister's right to complete these changes, but it has taken time to complete the consultation process. That's why this operation is a special operation here, that's to make that plan the highest. Minister of health to complete that change.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u48	Madam President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Opportunity. In this strategy, the government has decided to make 45 million in four years. 40 million are to be applied for, 10 million a year will be assigned to special projects for queer people and 5 million will be placed in a map plan on the status and rights of queer people in Iceland. Does the prime minister think that this is enough? Does the prime minister feel that it is proper to place all the activities involved in investing and implementing without any financial support? And does the prime minister feel that more drastic measures are needed when it comes to queer children in the school system? The health of gay children in the school system has been investigated and their well - being is bad, but now action is needed rather than research. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u49	Madam President. There's a small number of costs being picked up in this program. There is, of course, the possibility of participating in research and other such activities involved in the cost of money that may not be significant, such as at least. A senator knows, but it is assumed that he will be included in the documents of legislatures that work under the framework laws. So this is, in effect, a set priorities. I'm not saying this is a lot of money, I'm not saying that. I'm just pointing out that education is expected to make up all these projects is not free of charge, but we assume that the Ministry guarantees the cost of its budget. In terms of the well - being of gay children and young people, it is true that '78 parties have participated in an international survey for Iceland, where this becomes evident, that queer students aged 13◯18 are less affected than other youths in elementary and high school. What lies ahead and is interested in doing, I think, in the queer community, is that the research we are doing regularly here in the country within the school is taking better care of this group of children and young people. I don't think there's any human here to argue, because it's important that we can deal with that feeling so that we can deal with the best use of queer education and that sex education is not as useful to queer children and young people as it is to others. There is evidence to suggest that we need to study these tests more fully and that we regularly study this group, especially when we are investigating the well - being of children and young people in general at school. I think there is good reason to change that practice and to change it permanently, for this is not a single intervention, but it is something that we can keep a close eye on in the future. I think it matters a lot.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u50	A respectable president. I thought perhaps, in view of the highest. The prime minister is the successor of the Independence Department and the Action Group most of the issues involved in the welfare system, that when a prime minister himself brings up a matter of human rights and equality that are under her own resources, we would finally be able to see a decisive and well-developed plan to improve the rightness of queer people at the elected time and to defend their interests at all levels of government and in all areas of society. But, no, we're sitting here with an extremely dreary document that might be most appropriate for Prime Minister to resume his ministry and work better with a queer community organization. Then it could be added here to the council for a deeper discussion and approval. Then let's move on to the matter. In recent years, '78 organizations have called for actions in behalf of queer candidates for international protection, an enormously peripheral group. It may now be the highest policy. Minister of Justice to help search for and impair their rights. That may well be so. But how the hell does it fall? Or would the prime minister consider putting together an entire operation program in the affairs of queer people, not to mention this group?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u51	Madam President. I'm surprised to find out. A senator speaks this way because '78 members of the gay community came to the task of molding this program, and frankly, I allow myself to say that our cooperation with the '78 organizations was extremely successful. A senator uses this form of speech. Then I want less of it. A senator, for what? A senator says that welfare issues don't come on the table of greener green in this government, on the issue of social security, disability and the elderly is probably the most important welfare issues we're going to have, and I think I'm going to have to have the right to inform them. There's a senator who says they're under the Department of Social Affairs. But then we are, of course, working together on the welfare issues that we hear. And then I come to my words. A senator's plan to belittled. This plan is being accomplished, as I traced here, in excellent consultation, not only to the management system, but also to the gays' interests group, and to deal with matters they've been flaunting for years. I mentioned here the hatred speech, I mentioned the feelings of young people, and I mentioned domestic violence in gay homes that have been a matter we have not discussed. That may well be the problem. A senator thinks it's all the least small stuff, and then it's just his attitude. It's not my position. At this council, I have proposed a number of cases in favor of queer people, small and large, and all of them have served the same goal of ensuring the rights of this group because I believe that the community is better that way. But I'm not going to have what's said in this operation plan, that there's no record of anything. That's what I feel about the lack of knowledge about the language group at the time of the accident. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u52	A respectable president. There may be an indication of total apathy or just a determined course at the highest level. Governments to refugees, this is where the highest priority is. The prime minister did not comment on the group that my inquiry discussed. Of course, I'm not the only one amazed at the fact that this group is not mentioned in this record '78 organization as the highest. The prime minister says that he had a great consultation with this plan, so to speak. Reykjavíkurburg points to this, and others are amazed at this. Similarly, all coverage and consciousness are lacking in this programme of action on what is called ◯intersgency, the work of preventing a variety of discrimination, whether seen in the centres or in the disabled. There's an excessive old-fashioned approach in this operation plan. [[The president calls.]] That's 40 million in four years. It would be nice to know if it reflects the importance of the subject of queer government people, 40 ◯45 million in four years, 11 million a year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u53	Madam President. I remind you, because of what. A senator here talks about a wide variety of discrimination, that it is not long since we changed our equality laws, under my initiative here at the General Assembly, taking laws on multiple discrimination. Now, to form a judicial committee of equality, the first decision to make is based on the new law. That may well be the problem. A senator believes that this is not being discussed in the legislation, but this is done, and this is because of the bill I put here, and the plan of action, of course, is based on existing legislation. [[Up front.]] It was discussed with refugees in the leading of this work, and it discussed a considerable amount of 37th pars. a foreigner in particular where it takes into consideration that queer candidates for international protection fall under the particular category of sensitive groups. I'd like to quote, but maybe I don't have time for it, since it's starting to blink, but it was discussed on a front page, and the conclusion was that it wasn't in there. [[The president calls.]] But I reiterate that I've had an inconsistency relationship with the '78 Syndicates, and I'm shocked. In order to learn how funding for them have developed during a less prime season. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a pleasant surprise for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u54	...and they're on the run.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u55	Wait a minute. A senator uses the speaker's stand to promote his views.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u56	President. I'd like to thank you very much. The prime minister for starting this important discussion, and at the same time I rejoice that this important matter is under attack. However, I have to say, when you look at the overall picture, this operation plan isn't working far enough. Trans people are e.g. at higher risk of suicide than many other community groups because of the long waiting period for sexual correction. More funding is needed for that tribe and, at the same time, for the land hospital to take into account the needs of these groups. As it is, I agree with what. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson not to be taken into account by queer refugees and fugitives who are one of the most vulnerable groups in Icelandic society, who have special care for them and prevent e.g. A hate crime against them by means of legal laws that deal directly with hate crimes and hatred speech, the highest. The minister came in earlier. But it is also important to strengthen the government, to make the police, by means of education and system changes, and so I rejoice in the Action Programme. However, this growth is not taken into account in detail. These matters need to be handled with humanity and knowledge, and there seems to be some confusion when it comes to the above - mentioned hate speech, whether it's the law itself that doesn't control the crimes, or whether the government doesn't think it's important enough, I don't know, but there's an interaction between law and government action that could lead to an improvement in this category. All of this and more is stated in the reviews of this operation plan, and I am sorry that they have not been taken into consideration, but they can be considered in case of success. That's why I want to encourage the highest. The prime minister continues on this course, calling for the situation to change as the members of the council, which have been called for so long.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u57	Madam President. First, hate speech. The 9th Action Programme suggests that this hatred speech on the basis of sex characteristics will be executed, but it will also be punished by refusing a person to share goods or services with others on the basis of gender characteristics, etc. It's all traced here. This is directly to meet the rainbow card published by ILGA Europe, which has been pointed out to be exactly this, that Iceland's law on hatred speech and hate crime does not provide sufficient protection to gay people. It was proposed that there was a bill for a change in the general penal law, which was suggested that this would also reach sexual characteristics, but now it is spoken of as a sexual orientation and a sexual awareness, so this is a very positive change. Then people with atypical sexual traits would have the same protection as other vulnerable groups. Similarly, this change would bring a heavy burden, and in any case, we feel that this would be in direct harmony with those comments. A senator mentioned, and I can only agree with her that it is very important that we do better. It's about what it's like. A senator mentioned fleeing people, they are absolutely right; of course, they are a very delicate group, such as the others listed to the 37th par. foreign shapes. I can name those with disability and others just a very sensitive group that we need to give special attention to and serve. But what this is all about: Do we want to take one sensitive group outside or to look more at the laws of foreigners and look particularly at the protection of vulnerable groups as defined there? There are, of course, other groups. It's certainly gay people, and I completely agree with what. A senator could also look to disabled people, people with chronic illnesses, and other such groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u58	President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answer. I agree with her that the bigger picture needs to be looked at, and it needs to be looked at all the perimeter groups in the queer community. These groups may be well spoken of, but when I read this operation plan, I still only see reports and reviews, talks and checks. The hate speech laws can certainly be changed into penalties, and I am so delighted. But there is also the need to consider how it is used, and when this is the case it must be considered in criminal treatments and in the priority of the police. This is a combination of these two factors, and we cannot continue to take steps in the affairs of peripheral groups above our heads. Rather, we need to take them in firm grips and ensure that our laws, the laws we put here at the Allied Council, will penetrate these groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u59	Madam President. Yes, report, mapping, education. Does it matter? Yeah, I think so, because I think we have to face up to the fact that we're not caring for this mapping and that training properly right now. We're not doing that. I mentioned a child council earlier because I take note of what is going on there and when I hear it say that the children experience that the people they're working with have really not received enough instruction on these matters, I think it's just a very good and important guide for us. So it's totally important. Also, we have to face it - now we have an equal fund that has been supporting the field of equality studies, it was decided to set up for the 100th anniversary of the Women's Qualifications Court of 2015 - and what comes on the day? There was an amazing need for such tests. I think it's the same thing that's gonna come out of this because there's a lack of knowledge of the seminary. Of course, we know some things, we have feelings for others, but it is extremely important that governments do this in a very careful way. I think this is important. [[The president calls.]] But I'm completely impatient about any further changes, and whisk. A senator mentioned, for example. in the first answer to a waiting list for the trans team, but we also need to take care of these factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u60	Madam President. I want to thank you for the fact that this case is presented here. There are two main points I would like to discuss here in the symposium on that subject today. First, I have personally actively participated in the battle of queer people for less than 30 years. Of course, the situation we are today, considering the first time I arrived on the scene, is different. We've been working in the right direction for decades to ensure the right and the protection of queer people in Iceland, so, of course, it's time to celebrate. But what I would like to address may be that we remember the story and are not at risk that history repeats, since it has been dangerous and difficult for queer people. In this context, I want to remind you that during the interwar years in Europe, in Berlin, there was a time of flowers for gay people. One night the law was changed, and we were sent to concentration camps and had nothing to protect us. The court will arrive, but they will also leave if there is not a guard for the rights to be reached. I wanted to remind you today when we face an enormous threat, a war effort, in the continent. We don't know what happens, how long the war will be, how many people will be affected. But the first thing that happens when it comes to the purse, when it starts to squeeze through our space, is that the condensed groups fall first overboard. That's why I have to come up and put it to rest and remind you that although we're doing well in Iceland, we must never fall asleep on our guard. The other thing I wanted to discuss is that in these decades of hard work done by the Council of '78 and persons in social reconciliation, this battle, in my opinion, has been mainly successful because it has been carried out transversely. The fact that good things that promote justice, which contribute to the stronger status of queer people in society, will come on schedule - we should all celebrate it wherever we sit. That's very important to me. A law on the marriage of gay people, a matter of technical development, about anything--if we had stood here in this hall trying to win here some political victories on our own, we would never have made it any further in this trial of rights. So I pray to the United States of Congress. I pray to the community at the time we now live: help us ensure rights. Can we do better? It can always be done better. Will new challenges arise? Yes, we will have to deal with them. But let us help us secure the right queer people in the country, move higher on the map, and guard. This little country, this little nation, has been exemplary in queer affairs. If we stick together and keep following these matters, we can be on the lead.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u61	Madam President. Because of it. A member of the General and Education Committee, and he will be among those who present the case through the council, I would especially like to refer to one point in the report, a point that Reykjavík's city actually pointed to in its consultations, but in the matter of a law made in a universal and educational committee recently, less than a year ago, in which child law was changed. But it is wrong to report the impact of that change. The idea was to match people's parental status so that they could stand just as unrecognizable couples regarding parental status. However, the way that was chosen, the way that occurred at the Ministry and most of the World Education Committee, was to improve the transtransmission among the queers who have a lower standard of child law, who do not have the automatic registration of parental connections according to child law. I'm sorry it didn't work out a year ago for the Board of Education, even though I know that it was a hard fight for it. It's even worse if the minister's report is wrong, and I just want to point it out. This is especially the case by a member of the body because it is so easy to put your arms around it. It's such a simple change of law that could have been put around here less than a year ago. But it may be a secondary product of the work of the Committee to bring a small modification bill on the children's law to achieve this objective that the Ministry holds falsely to date a year ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u62	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and at least I can. I will follow up on the committee. Of course, I cannot answer for the work of the last committee a year ago and how they came to their conclusions. But I'm just saying that I'm going to follow this on the Committee, and this is a good point. I personally have experience in buying eggs from my wife. I've had to come to the office to stamp and sign that I have my own children, so, of course, it has to be looked at and followed, and I thank you for the tip.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u63	Madam President. Thank you for your good reaction. It's, like, cot. A senator went over so absurdly that a certain type of parent is so close to the system that it takes a special procedure to get that position recognized. I want to believe that we can make laws and rules without necessarily belonging to the group we're making the rules about. We're supposed to be able to negotiate with the people we're operating on here at a Senate Hall, but then, without me putting up with that universal and educational committee, I think this is a clear example of the fact that people just needed to put on their compassion glasses and realize what this was a ridiculous situation. Perhaps it was a bit complicated to grasp this in the Law code. Perhaps this was too much trouble for people who did not agree with the problem they were solving to see why they should work. But I am pleased with the reaction I received here, trusting in it. A senator to do that well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u64	Madam President. These are very beautiful and good relationships that I and I enjoy. A senator is here, and I don't think there was any particular question in his second answer. But I just stress, as I said in my speech, that both are in such a way that we will not cover every detail in one field, and likewise new situations will arise with new challenges. So we need to be reviewing our situation. It is widely in the public system, in the health system - you're enrolling a child in preschool, a mother and father in all applications, even though the two mothers or the two fathers are involved. There are some things to fix. It takes time, it needs to want, it needs pressure. But I just reiterate what I said with the engine force of our team, these changes are going faster.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u65	Madam President. There's a lot of good things to this proposal for an action plan in the lives of queer people for the next four years, but when I saw the case on the Senate, I was expecting more action, that there would be actual action in the motion so we would see changes in our system, not that we could get a report of the situation because there are a lot of things we can do better than we do now. I asked the highest. The prime minister here, whether she considered 45 million in four years to be sufficient for a plan of action that she says was ambitious in the affairs of gay people, and she felt that this was enough. This would depend on the schemes that should deal with all of this because it is more and more, less, and less on actual measures to improve a position that we are fully aware of is inadequacy. There's a few things I'd like to talk to you about. It may be the first time it's time to investigate the positions and rights of queer people, map with the others and these sources. State officials are to be instructed on queer matters. The police are to be instructed on gay issues. They're here to inform elected deputies and staff of community members on queer issues. There's educational material to be prepared for gay children in youth, sports, hobbies and youth, and it's very good. However, a survey of employment drivers'attitudes and knowledge of the state and availability of queer workers in the workplace is to be made available. In that case, e.g. not asking queer people about their job position. Professional drivers are to be asked what the situation is. This may be what I think so prominently in this, on fishing roads and agriculture, a survey should be made to examine the attitudes and positions of queer people in the fishing field and in agriculture. I think it all makes sense to me that this synopsis proposal was made in an excessive hurry because somehow there is so little harmony there. In some areas it is important to study, in some places an examination of your feelings, an assessment of how other people feel about gay people. Of course, it is very good that we realize how queer people are doing, but this is a four - year plan. I would have thought we might have to spit on it right now. We know that gay young men and children in the school system feel bad. The Ministry of Education is in hand with the process of entering the main textbook and making radical changes to meet this fact we know about. What is it in the school environment and in our society that makes our children feel bad? Why do we not see in this program any real plan to meet this challenge? Why are we not in this programme of action to enforce what we have already decided, which is to provide replacement children with the transgroup? There are exorcised waiting lists for children, and these years that children and young people wait for waiting lists to serve in the Transition Team Hospital can cause irreparable damage. They can be very damaging to their mental health and to their self - image. Some of them just don't survive the wait, and that's a fact, Madam President. It's so strange to bring this document to 12 pages and not really address the position we have before us, we know this. Again, I say, it's good to inform the police and health professionals about the situation. It's good to train sports companies. It is good to educate the elected representatives and staff of your team, but a four-year operation programme should be able to do more. It's also aroused, as I said before, my attention to a Regulation announced in the summer of 2021 has now entered a four-year plan. Why wasn't it just changed? If there is any fear that those who are gay and give blood may be infected with deadly diseases, that is true of all of us. The blood is screened for a long time. It is prejudice, Madam President, which causes the Regulation to be unchanging. I have to say something. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll the son of Jóhannsson. Surprisingly, there is no mention of refugees in this strategy. Yet, it was that in some comments received under a crossword that I can't see that any consideration was taken, this was mentioned, a total lack of action involving refugees. We know exactly how it is, that's a little consideration for queers running away. People are made to flee to other regions of their countries where they are not known, since no one possibly knows that they are gay because they are less likely to travel. In many countries, being gay is life - threatening, and people are hiding with that fact. I have to say, we can do so much better. I hope to the highest. Prime Ministers tell their people of the General and Education Committee, as well as members of other administrations, that they are free to make changes in this arrangement. I'm worried that she'll get in the way of us rather than the other, because she proclaims an extremely small and short step toward equality in the affairs of gay people.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u66	Madam President. Presumably, this program of action was presented in government consultations earlier this year. The proposal as it comes to us is, in fact, just a draft. The big vision's missing. The major measures to take in the next few years are missing. This schedule is an underdeveloped standard today rather than a four - year - old view. It is of great interest to see how little has changed since the problem of consultation because there were detailed, rich, and good comments from experts in this field. Without leaning on anyone, I think e.g. These include the Court's Office for Human Rights and Democracy, the city of Reykjavík. There is a Trans Iceland that did, for example. comment on the lack of direct consultation with the company before the plan was opened. And then in '78, which, of course, was allowed to be part of the schemer group. The '78 organization points to several important things that did not rush into the plan. I'm just going to read these five things that the organization specifically brings out. First of all, it is important to improve legislation on gay candidates for international protection. It's going to be obvious to anyone who has any sense in these matters. It's ridiculous not to get involved in this plan but to reflect possibly that the government can agree on some policy in the affairs of queer people in general, but when it comes to the rights of people to escape, we just end up in the same sort of trouble as usual, that there are one or two categories of government that just don't want to welcome refugees, whether they're gay or not. Scene two, specifically identified by the '78 Synod, is the underdevelopment of the Land Hospital. In fact, it is amazing that this plan is almost identical to a void in which nothing is looked forward to total freezing in that category at the hospital. No longer can you talk about waiting lists for action, they are not done because of political priorities that do not classify them as vital, contrary to all science, on the contrary, just what people with normal emotional intelligence are able to find when they talk to transotors who are waiting for an operation. There are 22 people waiting for a sub-surgery, waiting for a year and a half. The third aspect of the '78 Conspiracy: We need to take decisive measures to stem hatred from minorities. The fourth point: The assessment and improvement of the bioavailability of people to work places, swimming sites, and athletes must be accelerated. I'm gonna get on it right now. You see, this is a point that I've asked that several times because it basically leads to sexual autonomy that went into effect in July 2019, almost three years ago, to offer to a sexless toilet and costume status. In April 2020, I asked the two ministers who were going to a toilet in the Council what they were going to do. The Ministry of Social Affairs was a rough thing to say: Nothing. Environmental and resource minister said, "Hey, we're going to check the Regulation." We probably need to change it. So I asked the highest. The prime minister would not be able to tap into his senses only and coordinate a procedure with these stewards and get them to correct this. I received the answer in September 2020, by permission of the president: ▪...restraining hopes for the immediate Ministers and the Ministry to speed up a review of administrative proposals in this context with the above principle to make sure that people have equal conditions in this respect irrespective of gender. Attention, Madam President, September 2020. Now let's look up the schedule we're considering today. When are we gonna get this fixed up according to the plan? You see, that is on schedule 2022 families2023. That's 1 0th, a change in the rules of loyalty. And point 11, the bioavailability of transtransductions at work sites, swimming sites, and monuments; 2023-2024. At least people aren't in a hurry, that's for sure. While it boasts of the laws on sexual autonomy, it is not hurrying to introduce them. The fifth point taken by the '78 Syndicate shows that the plan has not been established from the confederacy is that priorities are necessary for real reforms and measures to improve the status of gay youths. When I read a substantial improvement and action, I think: Yes, it takes money to make these changes. And there's a little bit of a knife on the cow in this program. There's just no money here. It's supposed to magic out change in society without actually costing more than five million. There are 40 million in budgets that can be applied for projects, but the other actions are just set up by one to five million. What's that? Indeed, it is an operation indicated by the city of Reykjavík, e.g. it should be really unnecessary, to map the legal office and rights of queer people. The '78 organizations have already done this. The report of the Community follows an appendix that lists what needs to be done to achieve this most sought-after top point of a rainbow card called ILGA Europe. Why aren't they on schedule? If the highest. The minister is serious about the second operation, getting Iceland into one of the top seats on the rainbow card, could only pick up the entire operation from the Agency's Annex '78 into this operation plan and finance it and then it would have arrived. You see, it's not that complicated. It was a short ride, Madam President, but somehow it's getting tighter over time. What interests me is how much is presented as an action that cannot be taken, which is only legal. Take it, for example. The 12th operation, to match forms, registration formats and IDs to allow the possibility of a passive gender registration. In the legal sense, it just means 6. the legislation on sexual autonomy is met. Section 6. says it's up to the public people to do this. The law went into effect in July 2019. It was given an 18-month period to meet this requirement. That deadline ran out about a year ago. In this schedule, it is expected to achieve this in the year 2022/2023. And a good sign, they just talk about our communities here. So, should we assume that the State has everything right, or is it something that a global and educational committee might need to consider in particular? The same could be said of section 13 that is about education for an elected staff member of the rural community. I think we could see the state there, too. This is a very short time, Madam President. There are other things that could be said in this case, but the big question that is left in me, after reading this plan, and after observing the inaction of the interview that occurred before the plan came to the council, is: If it is really the government's will that on earth there's a queer paradise that they seem to be so happy to boast about, why is the queer paradise with such an ambitious plan? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u67	Madam President. We'll talk about a plan of action on gay people's affairs. All I want to say is that there was a court of gay people for a recent weekend. It was a variety of programs for young people, adults and older ones, for people who wanted to learn and people who wanted to have a good time, and there was no skin for people of all these categories. Then the National Parliament ended with a well - attended main meeting on Sunday. I found it very beneficial to be able to rejoice together in a good group of friends, in an equal, safe in a good, liberal society, and in a society where gay people's rights are cared for because they are. They're here on the land, and it's been shown by the Generals for the past few years so clearly. It will never be enough to make the point how important it is for us to be on time and to be on guard that everything here can collapse in a moment, in our lives, in security, in a world scene. We also know the world scene from which they first beat off the board. We have new terrifying examples of this, and more important, the legislatator guarantees these rights to queer people in the best possible way, at least. some kind of defense. V.E.G. Prime Minister here proposes a proposal for a hearing of this first government action plan on the affairs of gay people and therefore is to be welcomed and, I'm celebrating, I'm greatly celebrating. I can hear it from the talks of those who have been brought here. People who work with me think they can go further, and I can agree with that. I agree that you could have stepped down harder, maybe. with the clear operation plan because when I read through this, I see so many times that there's an appeal to look at something further and even explore something that is available. The emphasis may be to some extent, especially on turning to those to whom the plan is really to be met, whether those of a queer group or those who are taught or motivated to change in their ability to reach out. It's something, I'm going to let myself get so done, Madam President, Brazilian, there's a certain penance in this, but maybe this is the kind of thing to be, and maybe it's just some hat over a plan we'll see sooner than later. I'd like to kill on some of the points I worked out of the reviews that have been mentioned here. They're from the Association of ◯78, the good organization, Trans Iceland, from Reykjavíkurburg and specialists in the gay matter field. The red thread is somewhat aware that while this is a significant step on our well - being, there was little in the tips of the consultation puzzle, the comments of the best - known ones. We are, as I said, under this operation a little still looking and collecting data and researching rather than taking action in the knowledge and knowledge that we really have. They've been talking about the funding here. Always need more money, and I'm not gonna spend any more powder on it. It's been revealed, and I can totally agree with that. Then there's Iceland's place on the rainbow card. - Madam President. Is there only 10 minutes to talk? I'm totally out of shape, but I'm gonna give it to you. So there are a number of areas that the Kingdom does not fit in on this program to get ahead with the rainbow map. I'd like to mention the position of queer candidates for international protection, they don't have the emphasis on it. I woke up this morning with news that I've been waiting for five days, that somebody comes forward and justifies this terrible invasion of President Pútín of Russia into Ukraine with regard to the rise of the queer community in that country and it's come. He has now, the bishop of the Russian Orthodox Church, called these liberations enjoyed by queers in Ukraine and that need to be stopped. It's just come out. We've got it. We'll take this on the box, we'll be part of the gay community. But that all black joke lets go then is the fact that there is a particular need for particular attention to queer candidates for international protection and that's something I think we should place great emphasis on in this operation. There's a slight trend, it's frightening, and then we know exactly what goes with it. We will see which course is being taken if action is not immediately taken. I'd also like to mention something missing on the map, and there's a parental tradition of homologous couples, especially women, who still lack the necessary change in this old pater est principle, that there is a law-like pattern for the child when a child is born in a counter-general relationship, although it is for assisted reproductive techniques, but they are not there for women, and therefore they need to go into a very humiliating manner, I allow me to say, an application procedure and simply confirm that they both have made this decision and should both be defined as legal parents. This is an example of how the system gets in the way. I know that the review of the General and Education Committee when sexual autonomy was being treated that it's more important to do this. We'd like to change it, but there's a system-based situation out there. This case wasn't about the change in the pater est rule, it was just about something else, and that's where the knife is in the cow. There are these things that can be fixed here. I'd like to mention only section 3 that's about mapping the position and rights of gay people. It's simply that this is being done by both the European Union and the EU Association in the country, so I'd rather have seen powders spent on looking at studies that involve the status and well-being of people in Icelandic society, e.g. A lot of people, rather than the current legal assessment. I think it's a pretty good idea. Point No. 6.about gay children and young people in sports and hobbies. We need to do better there. This simply means that gay children and young people have the same access as other youths and children do in sports. We know what that means for the physical and mental well - being of people. Then there is this assessment of the well - being of gay children and young people in school. Yes, we need to make a better assessment. There are evaluations that show white people that they experience insecurity, that they feel bad. Gay children are all kinds of things and have all kinds of dreams. They share in friendly society, but in other respects, they differ from other children and youths with different dreams and desires and our school system has to face this. It must be faced, these children for and for the sake of society. I think it's an enormous priority for us. Our hatred speech and hate crime make us a success, but we need to take it more seriously. These system changes need to go through as fast as possible. We need to record hate crime, and I'm gonna use myself here--no, I'm not gonna do it, I just have to come up because I really want to finish this speech by talking about two things that I think are striking. It is how much a correlation is between gay people and immigrants when we review these actions and generally when we are talking about improving the rights of these groups, i.e. the work that is still unworked, affecting people's well - being and their life in general. It reminds us of the sad fact that all too often queer people have been like strangers in their own country and very few. Happily, this may change even if it can be done better and faster than immigrants, refugees, and inmates need to enjoy it too. Most of all, we need to watch out for gay refugees. The other thing I'd like to mention in view of these terrible events in Ukraine, which the world today sees, far too passively, is that this history of human rights violations written by President Pútín of Russia is predictable. There are attacks on civilians, indeed. They are justified by references to the existence and rights of gay people. It's a systematic rape of women and girls. Then the press and general information are shut down. This is a story we know, and we must not be surprised by it, and we need time to act on it once and again. As depressingly sad and sad as this is, I'm glad that this discussion on how to act in behalf of queer people takes place at the National Council of Iceland today, in this darkness that's running over our part of the world, because there's a little bit of light in it. [[The president calls.]] This flash of light doesn't just matter to us Icelanders. We describe the people who are being struck down in those places too, and we must never back up and let them drop. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u68	Madam President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. A nice tour by a senator. I had a little spark as she turned aside to the position of immigrants and the parallel between that position and the position of queer people; just a variety of discrimination in general, how different differences work together. In particular, I would like to talk about operation 14 about diversity in the workforce, where the people in the employment management position, the executives, would like to discuss how queer people in the labour market did it. I imagine that the percentages of queer people in the highest law of employment are probably slightly lower than in other places, that discrimination caused by the quality of people is something that people in corporate privileged places may not have experienced on their own. How does it rhyme with the thought of not discussing people without people? It is part of this discussion that we have been having today - it can be called, not incomprehensible, but unresponsive to the talk being made. We have all this organization and all this specialist in the field of queer topics that come up with pretty good comments, and that I would keep very well manageable, but there's just nothing done about this. Is this a practice that we can accept as part of this legal group?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. A way we can live with it. What I know about the affairs of queer workers in the workplace is that discrimination and prejudice and discomfort are even greater in, I don't know how to put this now, the lower labour market law, not in management places or specialities, there's another place. Whether it's because it's possible that it's going to happen to younger people, less educated - I don't realize that reality. I know the organization's been looking at this. I know, for example. that there's a pay difference between gay people, they've been investigated. It is clear that these are things that need to dive in, and it is natural that when we get to that place with society so generally that queer people get rid of themselves in daily life with prejudice, they meet up with them in a job market. It just doesn't make sense. I must admit that it struck me exactly this, examining the job driver's attitude and knowledge of the position and availability of queer people in the labour market. I don't think that's a bad idea. I think it's important. But that's not the only thing that we're going to look at when this is the case, and you see, I've done it both in my jobs at a job market and then I've heard of it in conversation with people that they have a certain lack of knowledge. It is not meant to be prejudiced, but it is a lack of knowledge that certain things may need to be taken care of. It is also a codfish of having come to a certain place with society. That's why I think it's important. [[The president calls.]] I imagine that from a survey like this, everything is fine, and people know everything they have to do. [[The president calls.]] Then the attitude is examined by queers who tell a whole other story, and there is now important information when compared. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u70	I don't know. Congress members are to respect the time for speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u71	Madam President. Yeah, don't understand me, so I don't want a survey of gay people's position in a job market. But in view of the fact that there are two differential factors that I imagine amounting to each other, it is so important that not just the attitudes and knowledge of the employers themselves are being studied. Then you just have half the picture, and not the part of the movie that matters most. Hv. A senator also spoke in his history about the overall superiority of the plan. You see, I got that feeling when I first read this document that a group mail had been sent to every department, and they were asked to throw in a single idea, so the Marine and Agriculture Ministry says, "Hey, let's go check out some gayness in the Marine and Agriculture Department. Apparently, the Ministry of Health did not have all bulbs on it, so they added two steps after the consultation process. The vision is missing. As noted regarding this workforce diversity survey, there is a different approach than in education surveys, though, as it were. A senator came in so well, the situation may be well known within the educational system so that the next step can be taken. But the next step is a little more complicated and probably a little more expensive, too, because these studies in the education system can be replaced by a variety of surveys of children's school status, for example, but if we're going to start changing things, we need education. Then we'll need some material. We'll need men. Here we see the problem in this operation plan, that the actions are somehow the next verse, they wait for the next schedule?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u72	Madam President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson may have hit his head, but it's easier to check the current position. In some way, you can fill a little bit of time and spend a lot of people on such a project, and then you need to evaluate the situation and take action. I imagine that perhaps it is especially tempting to look into a situation where we know that we are better off than many others because it is positive. We come out of a good way. I'm not saying we shouldn't know where we are when we take action. But that's right, there's a reason now for emphasising direct action. We live so well with an organization of '78, which is not just enormously powerful and strong itself, and I'm going to go so far as to say that these are the strongest human rights organization we have here in the country, but they have a great deal of contact with an international organization. They have this information, and I would trust them to answer a great many of the questions raised there. I know that the General and Education Committee is going to be given this assignment, this case for discussion, and I trust that the emphasis will be on turning this a little bit, putting the emphasis on the rest, on the next step, on using the existing data and building on. I don't know, I don't know, I don't... I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I might have to... A little more to the politics. That, too, may be what is missing. That's all alone here at the council about what we're going to do. There are regulations in a government covenant. The Parliament supports this. This is not about any political issues, not knowing me. [[The president calls.]] We just have to do this. Much of this may not take much money, but it is enormously expensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u73	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Prime Minister for this operation plan. I know it's the highest. The prime minister burns for equality and burns for doing better, so I want to encourage the highest. The prime minister to listen to the criticism and encouragement that has appeared here today as exactly as it has, as an incentive to correct things that may be improved. I believe that, just like what you're doing. In order to do good things in these matters and to do better than the above, the council has said that there is a great will within the council. I'd also like to thank them especially why. Councilmen who have spoken of these matters from their own experience. As a result, the rest of us, who do not have this experience, can learn and take to heart what can be done better. I want to share the encouragement that many people have. The people of the assembly used to go along earlier, that they needed more action. We do not have to make endless observations, with endless references. Sometimes all we have to do is have every action and operation plan to take action. For example, it is said that children will be looked into and see what they should do in the educational system. It's very simple what needs to be done. First, change the syllabus and adapt it to changed times. I'd like to use the words of the kids in our Puckett system that sent in a review last year. They said, with President's permission: ◯ There is no training on sexual orientation or sexual education. It's not okay because we hang out with queers, sexes, and all kinds of people every day. We need gay instruction because it's perfectly normal to be all kinds, it's not okay to have this education as a little chapter in a natural book in 2020. There are so many people who don't know what it is and who depravity because for them it's unusual, we should talk more about all the sexual tendencies in the world, because there are too many people who don't know what it is and who humiliate sexual tendencies because for them it's unusual; therefore, we would suggest that it be necessary to get a queer education. I know it's the highest. The prime minister was at a baby council last week, just as I did. This is exactly what the kids were saying. Let's listen to them, check the syllabus, and work on this together. We have also heard what needs to be done in the health - care system of some people. I know that if the government comes with a plan of action, we'll all be on the council with it. When it comes to mental health care for children, trans children, queer children, sexually active children, if the highest. Prime Minister brings in the Action Programme and says it costs so much, I know we're all here to vote with it. Finally, for international protection: Highestv. One prime minister said: Especially is it necessary to consider all the risk groups there, whether queer, sexual, disabled, or otherwise. I couldn't agree more than that. Prime Minister in it. We especially need to welcome these people. Sadly, though, we are not doing it now, unfortunately. We've done well when it comes to eaters, but when it comes to candidates for international protection, there is so much we can add. I can't believe it isn't that I can't believe it. The prime minister is also ready to adapt. There were good comments from many sources on this subject, and I'm not afraid of it. The General and Education Committee to cooperate with the Ministry of Presidency and the Supreme Court. Prime Ministers and in cooperation with the many good sources who have offered proposals for reform and that in the case of the council, we all prove that these are human rights for which we are prepared to fight, for what needs to be changed. We are ready to fix things because we, who have not had to go through many of these things, may at times not realize how important it is that we all stand together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u74	A respectable president. As we have made it clear, this strategy contains only a very limited part of the design of the material change, the system change, but it is primarily a map of the rest and this, to explore things rather than change them. This does not mention a reduction in the number of suffixed medical services, not to mention whether and how expertise in the trans-national Hospital in BUGL will be updated to the future and how the health system will be promoted in the interests of queer people. There are no material changes required to improve the well - being of gay children in the school system. It's made of gay refugees, and there's no mention of multiple discrimination, how to react to them. V.E.G. In a speech today, Prime Minister said that the '78 organizations were pleased with the plan, and there had been a good consultation with the Syndicate. It is quite clear, however, that the '78 parties also made criticism of this document, called for certain reforms, and pointed to missing points, and is not seeing that there was no suggestion. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson did a fine job of discussing it earlier. The most accurate criticism may appear in the custody of the Court of Human Rights and Democracy of Reykjavík. It shows that there is a lack of publicity about material changes, systematic changes, and there is no conscious effort to improve knowledge within the whole administrative system on queer affairs. It should be emphasised to examine and explore the other, and this when it is more appropriate to implement and change according to the current knowledge, knowledge of where pots are broken, etc. Reykjavíkurburg also pointed out that there is a lack of intensive education procedures in the educational system and in the health system. What is the policy of the State in creating and maintaining queer knowledge within the board of directors? Is the policy of extending gay tasks or should we also work to build up and maintain knowledge within the system, thus looking for ways to create structural change and integrate queer issues with other projects? I think this is a very legitimate question, and I also agree with the admonition of the Court of Human Rights and Democracy of Reykjavík, that as soon as possible, an independent human rights institution has been established with a T-minus to protect the rights of gay people and where experts operate in gay affairs. Prime Minister will handle human rights and equality, and I thought, in my simple mind, when I began to read this program, that now Prime Minister, who I know is burning for equality and has shown it here, through the course of time, showed his best aspects as a politician, and that now we would be able to see the problem and detailed plan where it would be clear what real system changes would be attacked during this ideal period, not just so strongly that it would need to be examined. But there was some wishful thinking in me. It's just too much, as I said before, a poor piece of paper, a paper that's been told and the senators here today have torn themselves up. It is now only up to the General and Education Committee to do better and to ensure that the General will be able to so strongly agree to this Parliamentary arrangement and that the government will put it into full force.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u75	Madam President. I just thank you for your excellent discussions and I sense a lot of support in the repairs of gay people, who may be our major project at the council. This question has been asked about some comments. I have to start by saying that the Coalition '78, because there's so much to ask about this consultation, were in the group that made this proposal. Naturally, they want to do even more. I just understand it very well. It is their role as a powerful spokesman for queer people in society; however, they have rejoiced in this plan, which is the first of its kind, and they were in the group that worked on it. There are all kinds of comments that come out, including Just about the institution of an independent human rights institution mentioned here. Hence, it is to say that this assignment is in good order. This year's work is beginning to be a green book on Iceland's role in human rights matters, which, in fact, will be the basis for a bill of independent human rights agency that meets Paris standards so that we can live up to that promise in a government contract. But after reviewing this project, it was my opinion that we would need a more thorough discussion in our community, consultation with the public, experts, and other bodies so that we would have such a big picture of human rights before offering a bill. I like to mention it. Here it has been called upon to quote comments on the terms of gay people in the management system and their lack of expertise. I studied it in my speech earlier. The Office for Equal Opportunities was set up in 2019. Before that time, there was no such unity in the control system. There we have been building up this knowledge of gay affairs, and I think it appeared in what has been done in recent years and especially in the legislation on sexual autonomy. Job diversity projects were asked. This led to the conclusion of this consultation group, because it has not been done, BHM and the '78 organizations have made an agreement about the status of the gay wage people at hand. They felt that it was important to look at the other side, i.e. professional drivers'attitude. I think it's also important that we try to achieve a more complete picture. Many of the points discussed here are of special concern to the health care provided by a person who is a major concern. There is a matter that primarily calls for enough money from the health - care system, and especially the land hospital, to care for it. Of course, I know that the Minister of Health is very aware of that situation. However, it was not assessed that there may be some sort of operation in a strategy. Rather, it is something that should be carried out in the law, that a proper service should be performed. Special attention was given to the children's law, which states that by law on changing children's law, no. 76/2003, a prime bill from the Minister of Justice at the time of June 8, 2021, was added to regulations that measure the parental status of a person and people with neutral gender. The change gave marriage to those who are enrolled as parents of the children who have been married to them. My lawyer's assessment is not now wrong, as was said in the councilroom, but it was debated as to whether the pater est rule belonged and not all agreed with how the case ended. But I'm glad that the General and Education Committee is taking this case again. I think it's a good thing, but I think the report is correct. I studied earlier why we really watch it grow by 37. to embrace all vulnerable groups when discussing the laws of the foreigners. There was a lot of research here too. It's so that there's not been a full-scale investigation of the state of queer people in Iceland. How important it is that we have the overall picture so that we can make practical adjustments and social progress! When we discuss the mapping of such cases, it is not only a legal position but also social status, access to social and health services and other such. A subject of gay education, since this was referred to and discussed that there would need to be a change in the syllabus - I allow me to remind you that the syllabus is based on equality instruction that specifically discusses sexual orientation, but maybe we need to ask ourselves, " Am I following the syllabus? ' I also remind you, because today is the International Women's Battle Day, that laws on equal education in schools came into the law of 1976. However, they were not assigned to a seminar until 2011, when I also came in as a minister of education and sexual education. So I mention it here that sometimes it is also important to enforce and do what we put on paper. At lunchtime, I attended the cityhols School, which had been discussing equality and equality in sports all morning. The changes that have been made in school during the past ten years are very extensive. But I agree with what. Gísli The Rafn Héusni son of Ólafsson, who spoke of this clear message that we received at the Children's Meeting, which was called after further instruction. Then, of course, we need to look to that, and that is what we are. to discuss here, whether there is also a need for instruction for those working with their children so that high goals can be achieved and not just words written. I'm not going to extend the discussion. I hear that the senators want to go further, to be more ambitious and will not be able to fulfill my commission. But I also think we need to watch that this plan is being worked, as I say, in a very good deal with gay people's interests and I think we're all aware that this is the first plan we're going to do in that subject. There will be a pattern of learning, both going through it at the council, during concierge treatment, and then how we work this out.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u76	A respectable president. Naturally, the Syndicate wanted to do better, said the highest. Minister. This is a line that we have heard more and more frequently when not responding to comments from stakeholders, as if it were somehow unnatural to adopt all the good ideas that might arise. I spoke out from five points, which are at the head of the Associations'comments, as reflected in government consultations. I'm quite ready to compromise in part that the current government can't get together on the rights of gay candidates for international protection because that's how it is simply renovated. But what about the second dot there, to make up for the insurrection of the Transteys at the Land Hospital? There's no charge at the Syndicate in ◯78 wanting to do better there. What about speeding down the assessment and improvement of the bioavailability of people to workplaces, swimming sites, and athletes, which are to be done in the course of action from 2022, 2023, and 2024, but according to the laws on sexual autonomy were to be performed one year ago? It's not demanding. It's just a law thing to do. No, it was in the social minister, the last, that of making improvements in the rules of loyalty and pollution so that the workplace could begin to offer a sexless toilet position. It was only a political paradox in the Ministry that prevented the reforms that now look to better ways. [[The president calls.]] But naturally, the organization wanted to do better because it was simply not being done well in the sense that the law was not being carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u77	Madam President. I studied the money of transteys and the work at the Department of Health for those matters. Regarding both the review of the method of loyalty and access to the sexless room, it has been reported that this work is being carried out at the Environment, Energy, and Climate Organization as well as on the commitment-based policy of swimming and bathing and that it is requested in nature. These are all the changes intended to follow up and introduce the sexual autonomy laws. Then there are the bioavailability issues for queer people, both in public and at work, which have long been a major struggle. This is especially important for those who are peripheralized to a vulnerable group. So we're looking at how we're reviewing these classes when it comes to accessing these groups with the aim of harmonizing the rules of transtransmission in the workplace and in public areas because there is a need for increased coordination with the legislation on sexual autonomy. I'm just saying, and again, I think we had a hell of a good partnership with the organization, and I think that all the action in this program, some of which had. Councilmen here compete to belittle, will be important to this group in our society, as well as to our community as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u78	Madam President. I'm not going to belittle the fact that there are laws on sexual autonomy in terms of the availability of people with neutral registrations of a species to a self - righteous standing at work or at the university or where they are. What I'm pointing out is that this is something that was supposed to be done about three years ago. This is something that the Minister himself said in September 2020, had hopes of hurrying. It's March, 2022. It's been a while for the people, for example. stands forever in our high schools, where people can't use toilet facilities except for a quarter of the university's residence. That's the situation in America's largest educational institutions. Of course, the Syndicate wants to do better, and closer, for example. simply because this is an unpleasant situation that has lasted far too long on the highest watch. Minister. And then I have to say about Operation 14, about the multiplicity study of the job market, because here in his second speech, the highest. Ministers that there had been the conclusion that there were measures like this, that it would be just fine to point out the clear comments of the Samts'◯78 that there must be an examination of the state and availability of queer people in the labour market, of course, but best achieved by also talking to queer people in the labour market, not just the employers mentioned in the program. I think this class blindness is a little striking in this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u79	Madam President. I don't know how much we're buying this conversation. I just want to reiterate that this is just about to end what it is about a sexless toilet, the introduction of a sexual law. We are well - aware that such an introduction may take time. I'd prefer it worked faster. There's no secret. This is an emphasis on it, and I would have thought it was. A senator should be quite satisfied with that. I'd also like to mention that we can't take this plan out of context with other things, and I reviewed not only the sexual autonomy laws but also the two equally balanced workforce laws, but also the bill of equal treatment outside the labour market for treatment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I really hope that the committee will take it away as everyone first because it is also an enormous legal case. And because. Senators express a keen interest in getting more results in the battle for queer rights, I certainly hope that the members of the council who are in need. The General and Education Committee will complete that case because I know the gay community is waiting for its payment here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u80	A respectable president. This bill is a part of the overall reexamination of the laws and rules of property, provision and use of real estate, with emphasis on land and land quality as discussed in a government contract. The bill continues on the same path and was marked by law No. 85/2020, when the Allied Council agreed to my bill that it would be passed on by law to prevent a country's compression on too few hands. These changes included changes in various laws relating to property rights and use of real estate, including to the Member States of the European Union and to recommend the establishment of special property files. Hv. Senators interested in meeting the law may ask how it is going to get this property file on the ground, so I can answer right away, it's working hard, but it will take time and money. The amount of money has been added to this project, but it also takes time, and then it is the provision of land property to which I quoted here and increased transparency and more. This bill means that there will be changes in four layers; cultural law, No. 80/2012, Earth law, No. 81/2004, Realty Act, No. 6/2001, and real estate laws, No. 16/1966. I'm going to briefly review the basics of these changes. It is suggested that cultural laws change the existence of the premium of the state's budget into a land where peace - declared civilizations are found. The objective is that the State will have the opportunity to purchase the rightful assets based on national cultural protection opinions, in order to ensure access, utilisation and structure in such areas. In contrast, no. 60/2013, the premium of land and other estates, which are partly or completely part of a natural memory file. These are comparable to the laws of nature protection, No. 60/2013, where loyalty was guaranteed to the premium of state funds on earth and other parts of the land, which is partly or entirely on a natural mine. So we actually suggest that a similar right applies to nature, culture, or land where it is found. Is It Designed? No. 81/2004, will be provided with a more detailed partnership on a land that falls under the scope of the law. Hv. Senators who have traveled through the country are well aware of and have heard many of the problems associated with the land of many owners, such as decision - making and response. In principle, the bill means that legal requirements for special partnerships will be unregistered, as well as detailed regulations that take into account the laws on the multi holding house, No. 26/1994, just like that. Senators know. They are the only complete legal code that contains the legal rules for sharing property. In large sections of the land outside urban areas, soils fall apart, either in urban areas or in rural areas, such as summer farms. As a result, the decision to make a partnership is expected to reduce problems, and there is a basis for better reconciliation with partners in these areas. This contributes to the adjustment of the obligation to make it easier for societies and other bodies, such as the EEA, to direct and interact with partners on the basis of their property. Those who remember the times before the multi property law was given know how important justice was when there was a law on how to handle partnerships in the real estate, this we know who live in the real estate. This has made all the administrations much simpler, so we learn from these legislation and actually apply it to the land in this way. In the law on registration and evaluation of real estate, No. 6/2001, the sum of real estate separation within and out of urban areas will be pooled, i.e. mark land areas and areas of all sizes and types. This is where we're talking about the border. For a reference work, it is considered to seek the assistance of professionals in the use of data collections and measures and the role of the county in solving conflict. Passing a registration will be made with this one and the same without regard to any type of document, such as a composite or partial adulation, reconciliation, or judgment. Implementation Code, No. 41/1919, which takes the ground and certain types of real estate outside the posts and legal purchases, which are in force from 1919 onward, will be canceled. From the current legal situation, there is much inconsistencies in the data-depth of the registry and incontroversies, however, there are many court cases without the result of controversy. Combining legislation does not provide sufficient guidance and implementation by the county and rural society, as is the situation today. It is enough to mention measurement and their presentation. The carers have rather vague roles according to national code, and there is no warrant for currency for their services. Thus, the value of the bill will in the future provide an overall pattern of such events, provide a better perspective on the scope and ownership of real estate, thus creating a better basis for organized agriculture. There is, of course, the basic theme of this bill, as well as the first, that the government has a better perspective on land and land, that there are clear rules on land and land, and that it is the authority for the government to organize the land in a reasonable way. With law No. 85/2020, which I mentioned above, was made of changes in the registration law and was clearly stated on the possession registry, which is a registration and information system that includes. to store information on national property limits on the integrated card field. Since I mentioned that this project has not been completed, I feel that it is a good idea to go over it. In February 2022, approximately While 26% of land was restricted to a land file, it is evident that a limitation of more than 66% of all land stocks, most of which are weights and most of them are urban. The file is housed in Iceland's National Registry, it is a file manager, and it is assumed to plan the size and ownership limits of the country when information is lacking but allows the partner to make things better if not available. It is clear that this is a number of cases and a lot of work to do. National records are based on a variety of sources, the purpose of serving state and community administration, and of public rights. However, it does not affect where the signal is found correctly, such as if it is unclear or disputed and for an agreement or for a judgment, or who is considered to be the rightful owner. That's where we're on the stage of the private court. Sources derived from rights themselves are the final ones, which meet the conditions of law, thus removing national files from landreal file. There's a clear distinction between this. There is a need to create a complete and clear channel for the registration of national signals binding to private rights and this is the subject of this bill. The objective is that landowners can then successfully update their borders in modern ways. Then there is no need for public members to strike, really, the border, and plan it. Organizational laws have led to the requirement for rural society to have so - called measuring forms done, especially in connection with national division and changes in signaling. In general, instructions for measuring forms have been sought. The bill means harmony with the practices of such people. This calls for permission, as well as training and testing requirements, but this is not expected to result in significant costs for the partner. The law that we agreed on here in 2020 covered the rights of foreign citizens from non-EU countries who are interested in owning this property. There were relatively strict conditions for those rights, so in view of experience since 2020, it is suggested that they be slightly relaxed about the criteria for strong ties with Iceland. The source is linked to two types of real estate, a registered tenure house on a farm or a vacation house on a rented property in an organized vacation area. In addition, when it comes to lawyers who intend to buy property in this country - and when talking about lawyers, not individuals - they will have to be confirmed not only in a state of law but also under the authority of individuals or lawyers from that State. That's where we're trying to stop other states outside of the EEA from disregarding the law. We're preventing this from being cheated, just to be clearly said, in the bill, it means, in other words, that laws within the EEA that are under the authority of others other than the EEA need to be asked for the permission of the Minister of Justice to buy real estate on the land. The bill presented here is the product of a pan-European, pan-European, pan-European, national, and other real estate group, appointed by the prime minister in June 2020 and produced in May 2021 prime shows and a report published in May 2021. That's the report that's the foundation of this bill. There were six council agents, the Ministry of Presidency, the Ministry of Employment, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Department of Transport and Environment and Resources. In addition, they served as representatives of the European Union, the National Institute of Farmers, the Communication, the Skatti, the Organization, and the National Institute of Iceland, as well as two independent experts who worked with us on this bill. In view of the change as III. The bill's section on the change in real estate law requires some preparation to allow the duration of that section to be on January 1, 2024, but in other respects the law is expected to be established when it has been performed. Madam President. I'm not gonna extend my case here. I've made an explanation for the main points. Some of these things are quite technical, and I think I know what. The General and Education Committee, to whom this bill is being discussed, will take time to dive into these unique points. I am here to remind me of the fine report I referred to earlier, which was published in May, where the foundation was actually laid for the important changes that must be made so that we can gain perspective on land in Iceland and that governments can, at the same time, apply reasonable policy of land management and shoulder their responsibility to be rulers of land use and land use. It has to be said at this moment, as it has been, when I spoke to the former bill 2020, that these cases have been bound all over the open knots. There's not been a clear box here. I hope this bill will be done according to a careful coverage on a committee and become part of a clear framework for the one most important resource we have as a nation, of course, that is the country itself. A respectable president. I have explained the basic principles of the bill here and suggest that it be after this 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u81	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by celebrating this bill on property and the utilisation of real estate, on exclusive partnerships, borders, etc. This bill suggests significant improvements in soil law and various related laws. In particular, I think it was important to explain, e.g. the premium of partner or partner's rights. Another thing that I find especially important in this matter is the clearer role of the businessman in the decision on the border. I also think it's important to expand the premium and accept the basis for a memory protection. I think it's a positive step. But I think it is very important in the treatment of this case to explain better the reasons for which such a warrant would be applied. In fact, the same can be said of premarital rights on the basis of nature protection, and I'm going to do it a little better. On this occasion, I would like to review a proposal for the resolution of a ground-wide operation plan that I, along with all members of the Congress at the Council of 150th C.E. This suggested much of what is presented in this bill and much of what has been presented in the work as the highest level. Prime Minister came in earlier. So I rejoice over all the work being done during the last term, the report that appeared last May, and I feel very important that this work continues now and will continue with this bill as it is suggested. Some of the information presented here should be followed by further review, e.g. Like the property file. There are reviews and other factors that are important for us to continue working on, to see if the objective of the changes proposed during the last term and of the changes this bill involves in all cases, or whether further changes need to be made. I would also like to mention that in the work of this synonym to which the candidates and I proposed for Council 150, I received a number of tips and had helpful conversations with people throughout the country, including the U.S.A. Just that they needed a way to get help to determine the boundaries and document them. That's it. There have been repeated coverages of the problems involved with land use, and this is a search for ways to resolve these issues. I also wanted to establish that the way we carry land and land and soil is very important because these are the resources on land and the control of resources, whether on land or on land, is a factor in independence and self - determination of nations. Then I wanted to come back to the reason why I feel that I need to consider the premiums due to memory protection or protection. In fact, I took note of my council's appointment that it would be specifically reviewed in the work of the General and Education Committee on how the State's Fund would be obliged to explain the grounds for the introduction of premarital rights for nature protection and/or memory protection, how to agree with rural society for the use of state funds, and what would be the obligation of state funds regarding the earth thereafter. I think this is important. This prerogative right of nature protection has not been tested often, but this has happened several times, and there does not seem to be a procedure to explain the need to support such a decision. I think it is of utmost importance for all who will be involved in the future, whether it is those who may continue to enjoy the earth, the rural society that has organizational authority, and, of course, a government fund that has expected any further planning for building up and protecting. As likely, if government funds are received as premiums, some of the state's institutions are entrusted with the oversight of the earth and the oversight must follow some message from those who decide to make the decision. This is shown in explanations of 1 st. The bill on the premium of the peace-circuited cultural memory that it may be urgent to ensure the protection and appearance of the earthly region outside of the peace-circuited culture and, in particular, the global mines of UNESCO committees, that this could be the prerequisite for the possession of state funds on the particular earth. But what comes to my mind is that, in most places, if not all the land is less private than anything from land mines, it is important, as it is said here, that the state has not used premiums because of the peace-created civilizations, because such regulations have not been legalized. However, it is important that objective policies exist as a guarantee of equality and transparency when it comes to making decisions on the purchase of a particular earth or part of the earth based on culture. So there must be objective guidelines for what smaller parts of the country can become the basis for the partaking of the State's wedding rights. Of course, there must also be an impact on society, whether it can be for the development of society, or it can affect residence in a positive or negative way in neighboring lands, etc. I feel like this 1st thing. ... can be the motivation for a global and educational committee, and I understand that the General and Education Committee will accept this case, specifically calling for a memo to see if there is any reason to put into the law procedures or in other ways the process that needs to be followed when state funds eat premiums. Then I will not say any more about this matter. I hope that there will be good coverage, both here and in the Committee, and that there will be one of the progressive steps in protecting the resources of a country that I believe is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u82	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for this fine matter has been presented here. It may be carrying into the tray stream when the advance workers come up here one by one from the same district, but it just wants to in this context, like a dog. paritaprevir Poor Anna Sævarsdóttir came in, we're a little connected to this case, though we certainly don't want to claim it, far from it. This is just to emphasize the importance of this matter. There's been way too much disposal of land-reaching items, where the borders are, what the use of land is, how to handle land. I think this bill is just fine with it. There are some clear rules about how people handle these property. Sadly, all too often, as indicated at the beginning of the bill, the number of Heirs that own the earth may have been 100, and there is no solidarity about how humans will use it. Sadly, though, it is too often, so that the earth or land descends, falls in price, and in itself is unreachable. It is very important that we look to it, as shown in the case of the highest order. Prime Minister, the country is a resource. We can think of it this way for the future, when we start to wonder about carbon binding and the whole thing, that there's going to be a lot of rushing to own land. We can imagine that humans are going to sell binding on their soils, and it is important that there be a measure of control over where the possession is, a clear boundary, and the prerogatives for the earth. Since I mention the map, over the years, the years, it has been kind of a national sport taking over the boundaries. I think that if you don't manage the ground, there's something really big in the country that doesn't work on it, I think I can do right about it in some countryside. This bill, however, requires a fairly clear explanation of their property and the site of its boundaries. I thought, as if in my simple mind, that after the trip of a former Wilderness Committee, which may not have been quite finished, these things had to be accounted for in order to demonstrate the ownership of their land. So I was surprised, and perhaps I have misunderstood, that in the history of the Prime Minister, she spoke of 26% of the earth having a perfectly defined description of its boundaries and 66% with some definition. But I may well have misheard. It's very important to clear this up. There are a wide range of relevant codices that are expected to fit the definition presented in the bill that if a person has a letter to prove it, he does not have to establish his borders. On the other hand, I would recommend the work of the Committee that the policy must be established by an attempt to establish its boundaries. I think it's important for the future to have this, as you say with good coordinates, and that's when it's moved to a book. So far, it's been quite a jungle going through all the sights that were opened e.g. On the tour of the Wild Committee and some of them were quite ornamental, with gray stones pointed up in the slopes and some stream that now do not exist, etc. But it's very good to be clear about all of this. I want only the rest of my speech that we ponder the sustainable concept of land use and also the purpose of the government by owning land. There are, naturally, vast areas of earth owned by the far and wide, as well as by the institution of a related state called the National Churches. Following this work, it would be very important that we set out a specific definition of how to treat the land of the State. State agencies say about these earths, but they do not seem to have a definite, clear view of how the earth is to be used. In some places, humans have been born there and have continued to live there, followed by the result of that farming. Sadly, then, when the official agency takes over the earth, it has often developed gaps, whether it will continue to be used and so on. It's probably later, but I wanted to come into it here because, unfortunately, it's too far too much for us to have elegant and good possessions, far and wide around the country, which is in the hands of the State, not important to use as if these magnificent assets could be kept very widely. I predict that for the future there will be an intense and sought after land, and it is also very important that humans keep their arms around it and what they will do about living on that earth. The worst thing that happens with land is if it's not there yet. That is what has a negative social impact on the earth and its surrounding settlements, if not on the earth. What we need to fit in with this kind of prime event is that since there is a particular premium that the state has, yes, and I am happy about it, we must also keep the next steps clear on how we are going to use the land, not just that the real estate is in the power of the state, but what we are going to do with that property. A respectable president. I'm not gonna have this any further. Thank you very much. On the other hand, the prime minister was eager to get this job here. We are expected to have further steps in the way we want to make sure that our country is well and practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u83	A respectable president. I just want to come into this business and thank you very much. Prime Minister for this matter. This is the continuation of the work we started in our last terms, which, in my opinion, were very large steps, including For the restrictions of the merchandise of the earth, for men to gather many things to themselves. It was one of the big cases there. As shown in the report on this bill, there are some factors. I was witnessing to the case and to the work of the Board of Education I was in at the time. It's interesting when you look at this: There are 1882 laws and those that are currently in force from 1919, so there may be reasons to stir them up a little bit. As noted here, it speaks of housework, farms, and dry shelters, and it refers to a manager. None of these may apply today, at least not the language that is used there. So there is certainly reason to review them, even if this is the case. The laws were set at the time in order to try to reach and detoxify the earth, and this, of course, is being done even better in my view. Of course, these terms have been discussed, and I am able to agree that, of course, the State needs a clear basis and that everyone needs to be clear the grounds when shopping earths with culture, since they are quite widely present. Of course, we want to do all we can to protect the culture of the nation, but the guidelines need to be clear. I think it's important for the committee to get into it. What we talked about at least in the last committee, and it's being handled in some way at least are soils that share many owners. There was a lot of talk, the problems that come with it. Sometimes we can't do anything, and we'll probably remember a lot of people who've been watching these matters, in my districts all the way, when we were talking about the Smokeyard and the falls and then, of course, the Gestapo, it was now quite a bit in the media at the time, where it was a bit hard to get to the bottom of this. But when there are so many owners and these things just get hard - some have no interest, others are quite interested - they may not be able to do what has to be done next, build wood, for example, if that's what needs to be done. And because today there is not enough law on how to handle this, it's a challenge and you can't build up. And it's also a little interesting that there's no restrictions on how many owners can become earths, such as traces in the bill, and this has caused, as we have discussed, problems when it comes to building up, or at peace, or something like that. Then there may be one person who is not able to get in, and this has resulted in nothing being done. So I'm very happy that this is a revised operation and I'm trying to get my arm around this thing without making something new. This is based on a law on man-to-be like the highest. The prime minister did well. They have been of great benefit to us, and what they can do in these areas is beyond our reach. It is also of utmost importance, as is being done here, to explain the role of our public employees, politicians, and others. The register was very much discussed and the highest. At the beginning of his discussion, the Constitution takes time; it may be so much more extensive than you think. Hv. A senator who spoke before me was talking about the boundaries and staging them, I think that's a good idea. I have in my possession old books where the border is written out, where a widow who was left behind, and maybe she had a limited right, let's say, it's been a long time ago and there's a man seeing what it was and still is. There are stones, rocks, or hills that they think they own. Of course, there are no acceptable criteria unless they are at least very well recorded. Here, too, is the role of rural society, perhaps many of which have good information. It may be that what is said here is to be adjusted to be a failure in the planning laws, including the rest of the procedure. no designer or examiner requirements for analysis of data, conduct, or performance status, etc. are required. And there's just some discrepancies in these matters, too. Nor is it clear what the review is and the confirmation of a local community on a measuring sheet. It's all been trying to explain, and I think it's just really important because we've lived around it that may not be good enough. This is part of it, as we have seen here, a technical bill, but mostly it's just explaining some things, and I really hope that things will work out. Although time is not very high here at this spring council, I think most people must agree that it is very important to make the decision. I really hope that an General and Education Committee will be able to work on it so that we can turn the bill into a law before Congress ends in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u84	Madam President. I think there's plenty of time to go, so, because of the last senator's words here that spoke. The hearing is supposed to be here until June, so I don't think it's too much to ask. This bill will be completed by the General and Education Committee because it is a very important bill that the Committee has had ample opportunity to examine the preparation of the report presented here. I expect the Committee to complete the bill, especially in their light. Senators here have spoken, all of whom have described the support of the system change we are in the middle of, which will provide a clear framework for earth's administration and land affairs in Iceland. That's the big job. There have been too much releases. We took the first step 2020, but further steps are needed. I want to say something because of what was discussed here. paritaprevir Ingi, Pétursson of Þórarinn, in foreign lands. We need to recall that national decision-making, in the absence of nationalization, can only benefit the landowners in terms of national segregation, but not otherwise, so that the standards of nationalisations, as they do not have any direct relevance to nationalization, can be of great benefit to the landowners to revere up the borders of modern life, except for all the land and land that are away from the peoples and that have not been considered by the Wilderness Committee. Yet it will profit him yet, so that I will feed him from his reason. This was the subject of a candidate's speech. Then I'd like to mention it as a boy. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir here discussed culture. We have a tenant policy that the Secretary of finance published 2019 over the land of the state and why we own our land. I think the general views there are tore, which are certainly common, are good. The nature of this matter, according to one assessment, is a guide that focuses primarily on public interest, practicality, protection and availability, whether in areas related to nature or, as shown in the highest tenet policy. In the case of historical or cultural background, the minister of finance who enters the hall is that there is a particular reason for the possession of the State. This will always be a thoughtful evaluation to some extent. We cannot publish a complete list and say: " These are the remarkable cultures, and others are not of sufficient significance, but I think they are. Senators are all aware that this is not cut and cut, and the premium that is lighted in nature protection laws is about earth's mines alone. There's nothing more to discuss. In this case, however, there are examples in the report that discuss if the urgent need is to ensure the protection and appearance of an area outside the peace-created culture, for we have an example of where the cultural mines are owned by the State and bury otherwise owned by other members, and it can work well, or if there is a reason for building on the peaceful or e.g. Travel controls then this will depend on the practicality of the tenant policy I quoted here. Then special plans, such as some form of appointment, can refer to the UNESCO World Memorial Index, called the possession of a trust fund on the person's planet. We can see from these examples that it is not just common ancients that are here all over the country, as we know, virtually on every earth. This is not about it. Rather, it is about places that seem to have some special value for our cultural history, and we feel that it is urgent to ensure that, on the other hand, there will be access to the public in the country so that history will be available to us. It may well be that such memories can be stored very well in the hands of their owners. However, this is about earth's changing hands if the state chooses to step in because it is concerned that these views, of protection and access, of practical use, are not fulfilled, that public interests are not fulfilled. As I'm saying, it's not possible to write this out precisely, although, of course, it was tempting. But I think there's also the need for us to trust that these men will put up with a financial evaluation and always act in an objective and moderate manner. I'm not gonna be on this case anymore. I just have to say that this is a very important thing because it's about the system changes that I think will take care of how we're going to handle this country and build further foundations for further decisions, because some have. Councilmen mentioned this as a journey. It comes, for example. to cast down a food minister when it comes to looking to how we want to use and encourage our use of the land. There is a secretary of the wood, responsible for the national organization and, of course, the Environment Minister, so there is no further work to be done, and we do remember after a discussion. The General and Education Committee on this bill is actually evaluating how we can proceed, whether the OS team should continue and work this thing in cooperation with these advisers. It has been quite amazing, considering how many people have been involved. I'd especially like to mention the communities in the context of which they have been an extremely important team member in this regard. But this is as far as I have it, Madam President, and I look forward to keeping track of this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u85	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize bills. The bill's on the roof. 596 and No. 417. This bill provides a basis for new overall payment laws, which implement the EU Directive 2014/92, on the comparison due to accounts, exchange of accounts, and access to payment accounts with basic characteristics. In addition, the bill allows for changes in European financial surveillance laws. The main points of the bill can be divided into three parts. First, credit providers will be obliged to give currency to consumers who present the standard terms for the most common types of service related to payment and the corresponding fees for each service. At the same time, the payment providers should be at least once a year and free of charge will provide an overview of all the fees established during the period due to a payment bill called a balance. In order to enable consumers to assess at one place the costs of different national payment accounts, a reference site for payment accounts will be set up and further implemented in the Regulation. Second, credit companies will be made to provide the so - called switcher service. It involves partaking of the right to help the provider switch payment. The aim of the consumer's open payment bill in another EU Member State should also be in the country's possession to assist an consumer, mainly by providing consumer information on the regular transfers of funds and direct payments in the past 13 months, intermediate internalization and closing credit bill of the consumer wishes. That service, therefore, is not as extensive as the exchange service. The exchange service budget should be fair and in accordance with the actual cost of payment by the employee. Third, credit institutions should provide access to the general payment bill and should be prohibited against the discriminatory consumers in this respect. The bill considers the qualities of such accounts, and it states that loan agencies should offer them services without cost or at a reasonable price. The bill also includes changes in European financial monitoring laws for the implementation of EU 2018/1717 Regulation, which includes the conversion of the European Banking Agency from London to Paris following British discharge from the European Union. Iceland's SEC is commissioned to monitor the implementation of a law on the payment of bills. A new project for the proposed legislation is expected to be included in the current SEC management programme as long as the control site does not exist there. As mentioned earlier, a minister is committed to appointing a regulation on a reference site, and at this point, it is not known whether any cost will fall on a government fund because of it. Otherwise, it is not to be expected that the bill will have a financial impact on a wealth of money. It is suggested that the legislation take effect on May 1, 2022, and that the tidlabanki of Iceland establish a further implementation of the law, which introduces the secondary types of the EU based on the payment directive. This must be determined by the way the matter works here at the council whether it is practical for the law to take effect on May 1, but let's see. A respectable president. The validation of the bill should ensure that all persons who stay legally in Iceland have access to a general payment bill. In this case, consumers will be able to switch payment accounts and the availability of public information on payment due to payment accounts will be improved, including with fees, tax statements, and comparators of fees related to credit accounts. New accounting laws will include increased requirements for local loan institutions to ensure access to payment accounts, transparency pay for consumers, and exchange services for consumers. It is not expected that the number of companies on the market will be limited or that companies are allowed to compete by law. I think it is right to mention that the payment of the directive was recorded in the EEA Convention on June 11, 2021, and will be in force in the European Economic Areas over the next few months. A respectable president. To say this, I suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u86	Madam President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the conversion of election laws and political organizations and to the reference date of elections and other items. The bill has been moved by the General Board of Directors and Follow-up committee. This is a brief bill that deals with a few aspects that need to be converted into new legislation, new elections that went into effect on January 1. That's the law No. 112/2021. These laws made great changes to the arrangement that has been implemented. The law set up an independent administrative committee, a government government, now overseeing the implementation of elections and elections in place of the Ministry of Justice in the past. The minister appointed the district government, which began on January 1. Unfortunately, in preparing a district election on May 14, several errors of the law that are inevitable to correct without delay have been found. Hv. The administrative and monitoring committee has already stood in place and transferred the bill to change the law, defending local elections, which passed through the council, which could be held in February and some were elected in question. However, the changes in this bill mainly involve discrepancies in dates that are expected to be due to lack of written text when the bill was taken here at the high General Assembly. So it is important that the reference date be moved so that it is before the ceremony is concluded and that it is important for the country's elections to be established, since a draft should be established prior to the return of the parties, but in order to be available to the local government, the company and, of course, the list should be provided as well. That is how the sufficiency will need to be in place when the list of donations is submitted. This is a normal change and is suggested here, as it were, by the dates involved. Second, there are some adjustments in which the speakers have fallen and references are not correct. Third, it is suggested that the district election shall be adopted on May 14, U.S.A., to send out his voting letter, which is paid out of elections to the county in the district where the voter believes he is on a vote. Fourth, it is a new opportunity to increase the number of council seats, or rather it is said to match the number of members of the Parliament between the northwestern district and the southwestern district, in line with the advertising of the European Commission of No. 1108/2021 of October 1st, 2021. Then there will be a council seat in the northwestern district 7 and a Senate seat in the southwestern district 14. Fifth, there is a provisional slight change that will require legal divorce after new election laws have gone into effect and the release of markets by the government of the state. More are the changes proposed in this bill. Most of the time, there is no problem with the date and date when a vote will be available and will be certain to lie in the format and symmetrical lists. The matter was discussed at the moment. The Commission's commission and monitoring committee last week, and it was the unanimous decision of the Commission to bring the case to the request of the Ministry of Justice so that these changes could probably pass quickly through the council and these refinements would be performed on the legal section that was approved here last year at the General Assembly and went into effect for the last year's convention. However, I'm going to allow myself to say, Madam President, that I am sorry for the extent to which this particular arrangement has taken place on this very important law code that has become the law of the election. This is the second time the committee, at least In my lead, a bill has to be moved in this way. We are kind and obliged to do so, but it reminds us that there will be no discrepancies here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u87	President. First of all, I want to thank you. A foreman for providing these changes. It's no secret that this law column needs big and big improvements. The above laws went into effect on January 1, 2002. The election is now over 60 days in elections to be held on the basis of these laws, but the bill is still changing at the Council, which makes me think about it. Were these laws read before they came into effect? What was the emergency of the law bill? Not to mention that there is no fictitious election in this law column, and now the unity of rural society must take place on the basis of law and law code, which have the nature of the case according to its value. I'm just saying, what kind of work are these things? President. Really speaking, did we not learn anything from the Northwestern district spa? I realize it was approved in the last term and so nothing happened. A member of the council and an executive of the Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir was found to be accused. On the other hand, I want the National Council, the legislature of Iceland, to learn from its mistakes and problems of reform when it comes to this legal body. There's a lot of things to be improved and better handled on this bill, but Iceland is not supposed to turn in unscrupulous campaigns and elections two months before elections. So I'm glad to hear it. There's a senator talking about what he's talking about. The management board is expected to be careful when it comes to the possibility of further improvements and extensions in this legislation. But the point of the matter is that there was an incident during the last election that we may not forget, and we just need to learn from our failures, mistakes, and problems with Iceland's legal rights, when it comes to any democratic election.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u88	A respectable president. I recommend the resolution of the United States Parliament body, which includes other members of the administrative body, smaller section, sharp. Councilmen of the Eyjólfur, son of Ármannsson of the people, Beb Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson of the Piranites, and Einarsson of Lusun. The interpretation proposal reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide the government from taking counter measures to meet the increased pay load of housing with increased financial support, by special subsidies on the cost of housing of vulnerable groups, and by the rapid distribution of housing pay for a larger group of homes to soften the rate of growth and inflation. The actions are based on information and analysis of what groups are exposed to most of the population due to rapid changes in the growth rate and intensification of air pressure and aims at preventing the rapid recovery of the financial and financial levels in the country's households and intensification. The government will be instructed to submit necessary suggestions for the treatment of Congress no later than March 8, 2022. A respectable president. It's March 8th. It would have been wish that this matter had been established earlier in view of a talk that was done in ◯akukus, and the rise in prices and the pressure that was concerned when this proposal was presented has simply increased in this period. But hopefully we'll figure it out, and we'll see the suggestions. In other words, it is being suggested that direct countermeasures be implemented in these critical changes that we now see at the expense of the households, and laid before the council. The number of specific growth reforms, e.g. You can also look at rent rents. For such general measures, the State may be expected to have entered this earlier epidemic, which is now passing away or at least In part, and directly instructions for financial companies via Iceland's Secret Bank to allow companies to spread the pandemic trauma. Such distribution programs may be considered for the homes, and they can also be used in a foreign example that I will follow. A respectable president. It's pretty simple. It's just to consider counter-important operations for the homes. The government will have to realize that the lack of interference in housing and labour markets in the name of the government will weaken the community's support, which will eventually address the sustainability of the state. It is faced with collective agreements in the time of 6% inflation and tens of the per cent of the house prices in a few years. We're getting reports of concern over inflation darts. Now, at an open meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, the expressed concern that the introduced prices in addition to this housing pressure may produce a cycle of prices and pay outlets. This has to be interrupted by targeted specific measures, and there the government has a role, but failure seems complete. Add to this the terrible situation in foreign lands, Europe wars, attacks on innocent citizens in Ukraine, a country that plays an important role in the economy of the world. As a result of this man-sint, of this terrible state, there will also be economicity, and they will find their way here and have already found their way here. The most direct display today is for the development of large - scale oil prices in the past few weeks. The fuel pot is now at 300 k, was 100 k. less than two years ago. For groups such as the United Nations, which is cared for evenly - despite the fact that we want to watch another type of fuel, we do not want the rise in oil prices on people at lower pay in the country. Yet, to this day, the highest witness is given. The secretary of finance to many months'record of failure in banks as a measure of the need for action that could prevent incurring in the past year and despite the development of a new government release of financial policies, which is a huge issue over the ideal period, is not really to be expected to be able to take any extra effort when it comes to inflation or pay expenses. Either such programs as these appear in financial policy are already broken or here we will continue to follow a course that is constantly covered in defense when problems arise rather than intervene in the problem and deal with it. This interpretation proposal is written for the government to advance something, in response to their failure, because we who put it forward are concerned about stability, economic and social stability. A respectable president. There is strong evidence that present economic situation regarding inflation and housing increases are due to political mismanagement at the beginning of the Korean epidemic. It was decided to use the banking system to get funding into the system rather than to use government funds in a targeted way. Bank accounts and bank taxes were dropped, hoping that companies would be paid to keep the work going, but the funds did not go there. With this delay in the state's affairs, there was a void that had to be entered by the Sustainer with a very significant decrease in interest. The result is the top interest of the banks at 80 billion dollars. ... afteroneof Iceland's greatest contracts. The conclusion is that almost all financial loans have reached the housing market. The result is a 25% increase in housing prices from the beginning of this epidemic, another such increase over the five-year period of this government. The result is over 6% inflation. We are now heading for a more historical rate of growth. Young people, who may not quickly change the amount of payment, now face a financial crisis. The economy must be cooled by reducing consumption because the debt has come to be as well as the prospect of living up to the cost of living. During the past few months, the government repeatedly quoted, and particularly in the leading of elections, to a low interest due to successful economic management, suggesting that there is a natural situation on the market for housing loans. It has been said that in the time of a crown virus epidemic, no more people were able to owe themselves for their first estate. They are mainly young people who have grown up with huge debts on their backs because of the rise in the amount of living prices. The government's economic policy has been based on leaving the country's homes in debt for economic benefits. Homes added 450 billion dollars. In debt during an outbreak of crown virus. This additional debt has given rise to financial instability in the country, just as the Fendaban has warned, but home is also vulnerable to a hard - to - hold phase of money management. Now there is a considerable change in the burden of payment for these groups in a very short time when inflation breaks up. A respectable president. So, with members of the Group of Congress, as well as with representatives of the Flocks, the Pirates, and the Fundament Committee, we put in order to see that the government will take counter measures with increased financial support, either through the subsidies of the housing costs of vulnerable groups, and by the distribution of mortgages for a short time for a larger group of homes to soften this reversal in growth and inflation. These ideas are not taken out of the air. Motive measures are wise and give evidence of responsible economic control at this point. The examples have already been provided in foreign lands to soften the impact on the homes of the country. Britain can be considered in this context where counter measures have been taken in the form of postponement of payment and tax discounts as a result of rising energy prices in that country. The failures that occurred at the beginning of a pandemic are not to be repeated, since the failure of governments to enter the economy created an imbalance, with the consequences now evident. It is essential that the government will not be too late to deal with this late phase of the crown virus's economic effects, with the problem primarily inflation and national instability. The cost of a government fund by responding too late will be greater than if action is taken immediately. It must be there if things get worse, but sadly, they indicate that they do. A respectable president. Price increases are imminent, raw prices are increasing, and will exaggerate the trend following the retroviral epidemic and will add to the major imbalance in housing. This may be possible, but it requires political leadership. Decisions need to be made. Here we have just accepted government financial policy, a very narrow framework for all the public activity throughout the term, in fact so narrow that it is very difficult to mark the application that we all want to see. Long-term decisions and plans are certainly important, but government laws on public finances and such plans also need to be taken into account that we live in a changing world, and in other cases, we experience a setback, some due to decisions directly responsible by the government, due to a lack of policy and action that has weakened the foundation on which we all grow on, while in other cases due to external trauma, low-causing air unions 2019, pandemic and global economic response 2020, war 2022. Long - term government financial policies need to be able to cope with tragedy in order to reduce pressure later on. Long - term plants must be built in a way that allows the board to respond to a challenge at the same time as the foundation is fixed. Long-term schedules, income-gradual frameworks certainly provide certain transparency, but they must not reduce political decision-making and responsibilities during the season of election. There is simply an incident where governments are trying hard to understand how economic management works, the importance of certain measures for the welfare of the economy. If nothing is done, long - term government policy is broken. This economic barrier adopted by the Council two weeks ago can easily break with a much greater degree of success if governments avoid political decisions today. I reiterate, a respectable president, that the responsibility is in here. It is the legal function of the Bank of Iceland to promote prices, but it is the role of the politicians in the welfare of society to ensure by all means that action does not force a group of people. That's what we're into politics, and that's what this council proposal is for. A respectable president. After a discussion on this matter, I suggest that it be sent to the Economic and Business Committee and I hope there will be progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u89	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter for this fine story. Now inflation has reached 6.2% and has not been greater for a decade. It is mainly driven by an increase in housing prices. Camp prices in the whole country have risen by 16.6% in one year. The average price of apartments in the capital area increased by five million dollars. in just two months. It's a very abnormal situation. There are two main explanations. Another explanation points to the forward-side of the economy, the fact that last year's governments have struggled to take action in decisive measures to improve housing and support the building of practical apartments for low-payers and intermediate workers. We're still suking off the workaholic farm system at the turn of the century. The government's established budget for the general housing system is not enough to create the stability required in a housing market to ensure social stability. The other explanation points to the demand side. Since the outbreak, thousands of young people, one third of young people, and quite a lot of people with low income loads, have listened to government messages, and have responded to the encouragement to increase debt and commitments as restrictions have been lifted from banks'loans, and financial requirements have been reduced. The result is 450 billion additional debts of the households since the outbreak. Almost all creditors have found their way into the housing market, where prices have, of course, gone up. It was not until the end of September 2021 that the zebra resorted to cooling operations at a real estate market, with rules on the maximum payment of property loans. The group of people who committed themselves to apartment purchases after the crown crisis, including The first buyers who entered a real estate market with high interest and low interest rates now see the huge payload for inflation and a sharp increase in interest. The others who missed the train, the people who didn't use or who couldn't use the window that there created to dive into the property market, look up at an apartment price 25% higher than two years ago. To make matters worse, the government has not yet fulfilled promises made at the 2019 Life Treaty on legal compensation for tenants, yet another group that ends. The need to keep up the rent price has not been made. As a result, Iceland continues to have much weaker defenses for tenants than many of the well - being society we're used to comparing ourselves with. Governments are responsible for encouraging large numbers of debts at a time in the history of interest in Iceland, and thus, in effect, the public has owed about 450 billion because of government encouragement. Of course, this additional debt has given rise to financial instability in the country, as many have noted, including the United States. a representative of this matter. Similarly, it has made the home vulnerable to the intensified phase of care that we now look up and manifest in larger growths. This is the background of the synopsis that we are moving here today and the reason we put it forward together with other categories of government opposition. So we suggest that the government be assigned to take counter measures because of the situation in the economy, with a specific payment on the housing costs of vulnerable groups, and with the temporary distribution of housing payments for a larger group of homes, to soften the impact of rapid growth and inflation. You need to have quick hands to prevent this reversal from landing with full weight in income - bearing households. Now it is legal to contribute to the level of prices by means of the governments he has to control. However, it is a political project to ensure that economic fluctuations do not adversely affect vulnerable groups, e.g. with support through our transfer systems, with instruments in cooperation with financial institutions, and with restrictions on the rise in rent prices. All of this can be done without directly affecting the maintenance of public funds as a whole. This is very important to bear in mind. This can be done without a calming of the state's affairs other than the Federal Bank if there is only the right political priorities. The concomitant support talk we're suggesting would be, for example, slowly, to counter any kind of induction, to turn down the tax concentration to the upper end of middle income groups, to increase the budget on groups that spend and earn the most in the community. There are some ways to reduce the burden. That's a reasonable economy, that's what politics is all about, setting priorities. Shortly after we arrived in the United States on this council resolution, the highest levels were proposed. The minister of culture and trade in advance, and in a very decisive way, in the morning magazine, admitted that there was a need for action either on the part of banks themselves or through government intervention through the tax and reform system - as we may be calling for here, we are actually calling after both - in order to protect young people and the most efficient groups from inflation and growth. V.E.G. The minister called for this and also said that if the banks did not personally return these superintendents to their customers, they would have to be raised taxes. She also suggested that a special whale tax be placed on a seabed company and said that these ideas were supported by the Council of the Agency and a government minister. This is good news, of course. This morning I asked for it at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee as well as other members of my body that these ideas and business ministers would be held with an open meeting. So it will be that four ministers will be called to a meeting to review these matters. One, the Minister of Culture and Business, and the other, three points of the government. I have hoped that it will clear us and give us detailed information on the precise action of the weight - bearing team, which says action in the interests of income - rich homes that are shut down because of rising inflation and rising growth levels. We'll also get the custody of what these measures are, where they are being worked, what they are, and if not available to do this where the knife stands in the cow, etc. I think it is very important to get this out, and that there is a degree of clarity on what the government's economic policy is about when it comes to debting homes and homes, etc. This surmise of ours as a matter of course. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir, author of which is our contribution to the United States and other classes for the discussion. This calls for immediate action for a less efficient home in light of increasing inflation and housing costs, and I challenge the minister of the government and the entire body of Congress to have faster hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u90	I'm standing here for what? paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land, which is first the 1st transporterman of this bill to correct the change of the index price law, No. 12/1995, with subsequent changes, index prices without housing. The movers, along with Inga Sæland, are the ones that say, The Eyjólfur of the Year's Ármannsson, Guðmundur In Kristinsson, Jakob Frímann Magnússon and Tómas A. Tómasson. A bill report says, with permission of the President: ▪ Prophylaxis is now exceeding Iceland's cost-expecting objective. The largest cause is increasing housing prices. This results in a chain effect that leads to a high pay load on the households and a significant increase in loans. Vasculitis will now be 5.7% but will be 3.7% if the mortgage is removed. - There must be updated from the time the report was written, the inflation is 6.2% today and 4.2% if the housing team is removed -- - ------*impending investigators predict continued increases in housing prices, including due to the lack of housing. Thus, significant increases in index prices will be seen in the next year due to an increase in housing prices. Everyone knows the dire consequences of the inflation had on the financial cost of the country's financial failure in 2008. There, one night the homes' debt doubled, and nearly 15,000 families lost their homes. This can never happen again. To counteract the harsh effects of household inflation, the housing team is suggested to be eliminated from the index value of consumer prices. This arrangement is widely practiced, e.g. in EU inflation assays. Such a change can significantly reduce measured inflation and, therefore, the harshest effects of indexes on family finances, especially those who are trapped in securable housing obligations. The economy is already in place for the index changes without housing, and therefore the Agency should be able to change the project accordingly to the bill without much effort. In fact, most of the articles have to say why you should take the staff out of the index. But the first question we need to ask ourselves is, Why is he there? According to one modern dictionary, consumer products are defined as products produced for consumption. If I developed the English definition of the ◯consumer product, by permission of the president, it would come up in a more loose translation, in which the Senate case is Icelandic, a product purchased by individuals or homes for consumption - for consumption. It is difficult to say that living conditions are consumers. It is essential that people do not have a choice to buy. We all need a roof over our heads. However, the use of waste materials is dependent on the facilities, such as, for example. electricity and fever, but not the house itself. There is, therefore, no evidence to define housing as consumer products. Everything else in the index price is smaller things that together make up a large amount. In distress, they sometimes present images that do not match one. It contains, for example, A photo of cheese, milk, house, cream, and what does not belong there. The answer is obvious. If a similar image was installed with the consumer indicator, the mortgage may not fit into it. A group of people have been fighting for a long time to have their mortgage taken out of the index, and it is a pleasure to see that this belief is being developed more. It was good, then, to see the head of the Agency agree that he was in favor of such a change, but at the same time, it was amazing to watch him lay the blame in Iceland's Habitat. He should know better, as Haggis of Iceland referred these words directly to the Father House and kindly pointed out that it was in the hands of the legislature to decide whether the staff were in the index. This bill is responding to these words by putting these into the hands of the Lawgiver. As a result, Haggis is already calculating the Icelandic index number with and without the housing team and has long done, providing additional support for the lack of home space in the consumer index, since housing is not at all. So this change would not increase the cost or work of the Habitat. All the council needs to do is work for consumers, homes in the country, and take the mortgage out of the index. We who would like to take the mortgage out of the index number are required to argue, but in fact, this should be the other way around. A strong argument is needed to keep the staff in the index. Let's go over this for a minute. First of all, inflation is now over the cost of Iceland's Sustay and is the largest cause of rising housing prices. Now the inflation is 6.2%, but without the housing team, it would be 4.2. Home is about two full percentages. This results in a chain effect that leads to a high pay load on the households and a significant increase in loans. Secondly, key analysts predict continued increases in housing prices, including due to the lack of housing. Thus, significant increases in index prices will be seen in the next year due to an increase in housing prices. The lack of housing is not to blame for the people of the country. There, governments, both governments, and the government, need to examine themselves. The growths that lack of housing are by no means a concern to the land's homes that have no cause for this condition. The pressure to increase the population and home because of the government's mismanagement, whether by local governments or by government, does not reach any direction and simply is not available. It is not predictable that the shelter will be reduced in the near future. I have from the beginning information about what the situation is really for those who are looking for housing at the moment. The markets can preferably be compared to wolf pits, where dozens of people look at and even offer to each apartment and sell far above the intended price, even 15%. So in the weeks, months, and years, there must be a rise in house - to - house prices and an impact on the index. No one really makes money out of this, and people have to owe themselves more and more to make housing. I shouldn't have to be the influence of inflation on the loans of inflation, but unfortunately, there are not many people who realize how they really work and how their snowball influence works. Prices are improved on top of the loans every month, and increases in the head of security loans due to temporary inflation will, therefore, increase the loan and the rate of interest. Thus, the percentages and the removal of the staff from the index would be of major importance in the long term for these families. Everyone knows the tragic consequences of inflation on the credit of Icelandic families in the wake of the 2008 economic collapse. Let us not let that story repeat itself, so that those in a tenet are not spoken of. A bill I've seen was 280,000 in January 2020. The same people in the same apartment paid 310,000 rent this year, and for the inflation currently predictable, their rent is expected to rise by 20,000 dollars. That's another one this year. Based on predictions of inflation, pandemics, and world wars, as well as on increasing housing prices, which affect as long as housing is still in the index, the situation is not improving. In view of all of this, we can be thankful if in time the inflation does not enter into two figures. And what happens, then, to people in this position who are already faced with the lack of rent because this money simply does not exist? Taking the staff out of the index may not save everything, but it would be a resistance to the harshest effects of household inflation. We were present to be exemplary in the EU, rather than in many other ways, since in terms of inflation, housing is not in the index. In fact, there is no insurance insurance on commitments more than in Western lands. I have placed the most emphasis on the cost of home living, which, in fact, is the biggest currency of their spending team, but the effect on prices, real consumer products, will also be great. So the rise in in in inflation comes in all directions, especially in those who are rented or insured. I'd like to use this opportunity to encourage the advance party to make sure that their housing team is taken out of the index, but both its chairman and his vice president have spoken on those lines. How important it is that the media reveal their power and effects within the government, especially after the great election that they won by slogans in people and that the individual's interests are the benefit of society! Now is truly the time to put the interests of individuals ahead of financial resources, for it is, as the advance party says, that individuals do not have to fight back and to the best of their ability. That small task is to take the staff from the index number, much to the point. So I encourage the advance team to use this opportunity to show that their election votes are not just empty. However, taking the index joint from the index is not a long-term solution. The problem, in fact, is not an index but that it affects our loans, for otherwise it was important whether the staff were in the index or not of little importance. The solution, with large letters, is to eliminate insurance on the accounts of the households and the people's party has already provided a bill of the material that is waiting to be arranged. In the meantime, though, whether or not the staff is in the index. This bill is simply to limit the damage caused by the expected inflation. I repeat, there has to be really strong evidence to keep the mortgage in the index but not vice versa. This small change can greatly reduce measured inflation and, therefore, result from the harshest impact of indexes on the financial status of family members, especially those who are trapped in securities or rentable. I'd also like to remind the government that in the fall, there's a lot of talk: how will the government make the best for them? According to Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of the VR, 50,000 will be required. a raise of pay to meet that 30,000 bucks. increase in rent obtained by the above - mentioned family Drop the rent by 20,000 bucks. In addition, which can be expected from the world's inflation and condition and forecasting and all that, 80,000 will be needed. a raise of pay to meet that. He says he'll pick up every cent. Is the government available to communicate on that basis, or is it going to demand that the labor movement be reasonable in its requirements? Therefore, I would like to say, these requirements are reasonable, for it would be foolish to fight for requirements that are by no means sufficient to meet the increased expenses of families, especially if the government has done nothing to hinder inflation in their survival. Taking the staff out of the index is a minimal operation to prevent the impact of inflation in the country's home. With this simple operation, the inflation and chain reaction would be reduced, such as. rising rent prices and interest. I don't believe that until I accept this case, there will be no march of the House, no particular trust in, in the light of previous statements, in the Postal Party, and his talk about taking the staff out of the index number. This is a procedure that matters to all of us, especially as a result of housing costs, but also to prevent the increase in consumer products.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u91	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Ásthildur For what was said here, Amy Thorsd's Lóa's Þórsdóttir. This action is one of many that needs attention now and though it had been earlier. ▪ Won't try to fool me, was a song that sounded here in early times and heard to this day. In fact, there is something that might be brought up here on the front of the big bank crash when the common people in the United States were deceived into buying wraps, mortgages, 100% mortgages, bonding with some kind of insurance note, and something that no one could quite achieve but bought and swallowed it, and what went on. It was not the same kind of deception, and I do not believe that it was necessarily a deliberate deception that took place when these were reduced to the minimum of the world's historical interest. Some banks took some reason, others did not work out, but there were at least many who succumbed to the temptation to invest in residences during critical times, Covid times, when it may not have been fully anticipated how the development of the economy delights. Now we see what happened. What was possibly meant to save companies and to restore bicycles to their normal life during the interwoven period of a global epidemic became a temptation for young people of all ages to invest in a house that they may not be able to afford to survive, which will become evident. Iceland has sometimes been described as a two - nation system where capital owners and then as hamsters in a wheel running and running to cover the cities and to stand a stream of all the crevices that are rising and increasing, as described here. Standing here in the General Assembly, in the national body, you feel this inflammation, this inflation in your ankles, this growth pain everyone. Everyone feels it, but most of them are trapped in a fixed - paying system, an ordinary worker in the field of employment, who has only their fixed salary. There will be conflicts now as the year passes, unfortunately. It may not have been a custom. This was not designed by evil thinking. Sadly, this is just some somehow inevitable development in some sort of bad process that is due entirely to the time at the end of the 1970s or to the late 1970s or to the '70s to which it is said and around 1980 when it was inflation such that it reminded Argentina and the insurance policy was introduced to the past as a temporary relief product of only a few months, at most, a loss. But we're still stuck with insurance in one Western country, and I don't know where the insurance is, as it seems, a thing of its own. But it was cut off that insurance would cover both pay and loans, and afterward those who do not have money but who have to pay their loans with insurance and the interest and the growth, and then the criminal interest rates that are often dealt with when the Writing agencies drive people into collections of sins and difficulties. This may be one of Icelandic society's biggest projects, winding up this nonsense. Some blame the gang for this, the New World Translation, and believe that these cannot be addressed unless they tell us in the European Economic Environment (EEC) all about it. But a nation that has everything that everyone else wants, the green energy and land quality all, the clean air, the pure water, the fishery and the fish fire, and all the opportunities to flourish, must be able to develop their own golden ornaments, show their fortunes, or their currency that will not need to become a bitter bone or a troublemaker. It's just a matter of will and common effort. We cannot offer more generations than our own. This isn't good. It's not good for the mind or the soul. It is not acceptable for our children and grandchildren to be the only nation in the world that is in this wicked Šluppa. I think, fortunately, we have within the government people who see this, understand this, and have declared their will to deal with it. We have banks that pay well, banks that are actually involved in this site, and these are wrapped around anyone who then bites on the public in the country but fats his owners and shareholders. How wonderful it would be if we could agree just to shake off all these growth projects, all these swellings, all these inflation in our joints, and begin to feel good in the Icelandic body and make ourselves comfortable with being a wealthy community of equality, justice, and common sense, since complex problems of the funds do not cause insomnia and persistent anxiety in the little mollusks. I'm one of the people who prescribe this bill here and set my expectations to a good degree, since it's a minor bill, of course. But let us hope for the best, hoping that, wherever they stand, they will see the light and will show compassion and mercy to those who are the real victims of this woeful trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u92	President. We want the legal system in Iceland to be fair. We want people to be able to trust the system in their affairs, knowing that they will ultimately have a reasonable outcome, that the perpetrators of crime will receive proper punishment, and that their victims will receive justice. However, large groups in Icelandic society do not trust the legal system, just because it did not give them a reasonable outcome. The sufferers of various forms of violence and their victims have searched the system, police, and courts, hoping to recognize their injustices but in vain. Thousands of Icelanders remain in anger and with little hope of justice within the penal system. So I recommend here for a synopsis of a policy recommendation on the tolerability of the total revision of penal law. Despite the wide nature of the case, this three - worded title well describes its contents, the taking of the penalties, the very basis for the legal system, for review, and the necessary changes to make the penalties work for those who suffer and serve their social function. The proposal gives the bill's extraction to the highest level. Minister of Justice, who would have delayed until October 1st, second, to put in a complete bill for the Council. At the revision, a minister will consider how to protect the interests and rights of any criminal, with special emphasis on reforms in several cases such as sexual abuse, close ties, violence, bazaars, hate crimes, false defendants, and injuries against those I'll get better involved in later years. The proposal requires that a minister appoint a team of experts for the maintenance and trust of the review in which representatives and groups of tolerability will be seated, as well as specialists and representatives of perimeter groups in Icelandic society. Transporters believe that on the basis of this work it is inevitable that there will be an increased review of ideas of wholesome justice and criminal damage so that there will be a process of processing on the basis of tolerance, but a more detailed explanation of the ideologies can be made in the report of the proposal. The reasons for this assembly talk should be clear to all those who have followed the social talk during the past few years. Hundreds have gone forward to describe their experience in the legal system. How they approached a closed door, faced a lack of understanding, and eventually lost the righteousness they desired. This has been evident in marches, awakenings, social media campaigns, and sincere interviews in which those who endured have had to express themselves about the most difficult moments in their lives. That is why the purpose of this suggestion is especially to listen to these voices and to contribute to the working of the justice system. The rights of the police, courts, and governments and, in fact, a particular interaction between the law and the social system need to be better guaranteed. Similarly, it must be ensured that the offenders are responsible for a violation that is in accordance with the damage done by the defendants without perjuring the rights of the defendants. There is clearly a need for numerous measures to eliminate sexual violence and sexual abuse in Icelandic society, both government practices and government funding and public institutions, especially police, courts, and health officials. Nevertheless, the basis for the legal system rests on the laws established by the Council, especially by general penalties, which are the laws fundamental to all decision making on how governments deal with and respond to crimes in society. The penalty for justice was more than 81 years old, but it went into effect in August 1940. Icelandic society has changed in recent decades, and the changes have become more and more rapid. In recent years, efforts have been made to take into account this trend, changing the unique requirements of penal law that have been successful. They have not, however, replaced the need to approach the penalties in a complete way from the standpoint of those who endure. Indeed, the community is not what it was in 1940, and it has clearly been evident in recent years. The discussion of crime is now increasing on the grounds of those who endure and whose interests are guided by it, since tolerance has taken place and has directed the public toward the injustices they have suffered. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of people in general who require improvement in the justice system and in services and assistance in the tolerability of sexual crime, sexual violence, and other related crimes. In addition, it has to be seen that in recent years the diversity of Icelandic society has steadily increased. Iceland has changed from a unique society to a truly so - called population of people of diverse backgrounds. The current penalties do not fully take this fact into account, unfortunately. In order to bring about the success of real reformers, a review of the basics of the system, which in this case are the legal statute to determine the exact penalty and the criminal warrants. Of course, at the same time, other laws have to be looked to, so the proposal also requires that a minister know whether the bill needs to be changed by special law. In addition, there is a need to consider what changes in criminal treatment are needed as necessary because of the changes made by the bill. President. General penalties count a total of 267. and it is clear that their policy-making is a great work. This proposal therefore emphasizes that a minister is especially concerned with securing the interests and rights of victims for violating chapters 12 to 15 of penal law and special emphasis is put on improvement in five categories. The first are sexual assaults, which have been the most prominent feature of public discussions in recent years. The importance of a review of the case is shown by cases of sexual abuse in the Icelandic legal system. The level of sexual crime is extremely low, and I refer interested people to the proposal's report in this regard. Although sexual abuse may be the most clear representation of the limited responsibility given to the recipients of a certain category of offenses, there is evidence that similar circumstances may exist in other groups, especially those involving sexual violence on the other hand, and in the face of mob violence and harassment. Although sexual abuse is the most common and clearest form of sexual violence, many other categories of crime are in which it has not been clearly established for responsible doers to take action. These include acts of sexual privacy or digital sexual abuse and violence in close relationships, but there is another group of subjects that must stress the review. Research shows conclusively that violence in close relationships is a widespread problem that takes on many manifestations, and it is the opinion of transporters that the present law-enforces the environment, which is highly sensitive to tolerance. The report on the proposal may further help you to learn more about the problem of existing legislation. A third group of paintings to be looked forward to in review of penalties turns to the bazaars. In society, the public's eyes have increasingly opened to the frequencies and severity of the cupbearers, but in current penalties, there is no independent penalty against the harbors. It is obvious that the operation of the drug is a serious intervention in personal freedom and personal privacy of an individual and that it is unacceptable not to be found in penalties of penalties of criminal rights. Transporters would like to examine how to ensure that the burden of the drug is considered to be an independent crime of the crime, where the weight of the penalty is reflected in the severity of the fracture. Fourth, if you want a review of penalties, you will want a special attention to hate crime. There is no particular law on hate crimes in this country, any sort of definition of hate crimes, or special regulations that take place when crime is specifically directed against a certain minority, except by the judicial regulations involved in the prohibition against hate speech. Similarly, the hatred speech of extremes against minorities has increased, and in many parts of the world hatred crime has been recognized as a special category of offenses and has given sound reason for the same action in this country. The fifth and final legal case to consider in the revision is a charge against victims and a charge of false charges. The number of such lawsuits has increased as a result of a growing community discussion of sexual abuse. If it is the order of the Generals to have the ability to express themselves on the violence they face, it is essential that they be able to do so without risking their citizens to use the legal system as weapons against them. The legal system is to be effective for toleration as a means to achieve justice, and therefore the current legal requirements of penalties and criminal treatment should be designed to ensure the interests of tolerance and to provide sufficient protection for unfounded charges and lawsuits in times of trial. President. Even though there may be explanations, a disproportionate rate of sexual violence and litigation was still unacceptable, it is unacceptable that it is an exception rather than a principle that bacteria render responsibility for their offenses. It must be the aim and will of the Generals to promote a reasonable justice system but not leave people with wounds of broken faith in the system we have created. We want people to be able to trust the system in their affairs, knowing that they will ultimately have a fair outcome, that the perpetrators of crime will receive proper punishment, and that their victims will be punished for justice. It is the belief of the movers that this is a step forward, a step toward a court order that grabs the tolerability of sexual abuse and meets the level of consciousness in the least part of the nation that wants the interests and rights of victims to finally be put first. So I suggest that after this discussion, the proposal be referred to a second discussion and why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u93	Madam President. I'd like to start by wishing. paritaprevir Lenyu Run Rún Karim, congratulations on her first matter of Congress. What a privilege it is to be with what? A member of the council as a member of this council arrangement, and particularly pleasant to both of them. A senator and I chose to accept the rights of the tolerance as our focus, our fight when it comes to bringing a case in here. You don't have to tell anyone who's been listening to the discussion that has been in the community for the past few years that the rights of people need to be added, and I believe that this interpretation is a good view of where it needs to be handled and supported, because I believe those who endure.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u94	Madam President. I'm putting in this bill where there's a change in the law of a liquor Internet store. The executives of the bill are Óli Björn Kárason, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason and Berglind Ósk Guðmundsdóttir. The bill does not include major changes in the alcohol trade system in Iceland. Some might even ask, " Is there some kind of paint bill in order to wave the flag of freedom without giving free alcohol, as many would agree? ' However, the bill is definitely a step toward freedom, but it also includes significant changes in an equality, both to equalize the domestic manufacturer's share of foreign lands as well as the equality of the people to approach the product. The bill would also emphasize the legality of a domestic network store that has been uncertainly dependent. For a long time, a liquor - based Internet store has been authorised in the form of Icelanders'permission to buy alcohol from abroad. This arrangement has meant that people have been able to order beer for doors from foreign Internet stores without problems, but not domestic. The Icelandic beer is forbidden to sell at other locations than the government's liquor stores unless first exports to order it from abroad. For that point there is an unacceptable legal uncertainty that must be explained. This means clearly the position of foreign manufacturers at the expense of Icelandic rocking houses and, of course, is the theater of some kind of absurdity that is hard to imagine was deliberately happening. Icelandic beer and wine production is a branch that has increased in recent years, especially as a result of the passion and interest of the people who are standing, despite constant pressure on regulations and restrictions that limit their ability to sell their goods. In addition to this, the obvious fact is that nobody in Iceland is specialized by the fact that foreign Internet stores enjoy business and employment and paying taxes in other countries rather than in Iceland. The other is so important that the bill contains a largely larger amount of money for those who cannot grow older at the Vienna branch policy, which has not seen reason to start the end of the world from their network store. The bill is a national language for those who have to drive ten miles to get to a liquor store. It's about sustainability disappearing for those who don't own cars and having to go to the parking lot camp that's placed in the fray, disappears and towns. That's a court order for all the housebound people, e.g. From illness or disability, but can order most other products online. There are voices that all the bills that increase freedom in alcoholic beverages encourage increased consumption. Yet, according to the surgeon general's figures, the growth in Vienna's sales markets and the increase in wine stores over the past few years has not resulted in a corresponding increase in alcohol consumption. The thought of greater freedom may seem disturbing, but fear is usually unfounded. They're at least The few voices requiring detoxification of beer songs allowed beer sales over 30 years ago. What is more, if the purpose of limiting alcohol consumption is to be balanced, not dependent on a life - style, living, or social status. While the matter of freedom is always in my mind, it is not as much a matter of equality and justice for the benefit of consumers. A case that I hope will have a sound foundation and a course in this chamber. Other than that, I refer to the bill's report, so I suggest that the case be addressed. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u95	A respectable president. I especially want to come up here and thank you. paritaprevir The Hildur of Sveriris's Sverrisdóttir for an excellent speech, which I agree with in all respects. I must admit, though, that I have been here for a very long time, and I feel that I have heard that talk a few times and that somehow nothing is going to make any progress. I would have liked to see the bigger steps. I would have liked to see everything given free, but we're realizing it, I think that's why. A senator realizes that the elephant sometimes needs to be taken and eaten in small pieces. I understand that. A smaller step would have been simply to eliminate the government's monopoly on the sale of alcohol. That would have been one step too. But this is certainly honorable, and as I say, I take my whole mind with my mouth. Senator. If we could get together just for this, it would be important. I want to ask you why. A senator, because I think there's more to it than that at the council, to get it all into the Hall of Congress and to pay for the vote that I have my heart on: Will she take it for granted within the government parties, not just within her own party, hoping that, while there are strange opinions on the chapters he is united behind this bill, and will she tie up the hopes of getting this matter paid off at this council? It's not that we're drowning from work here on executive bills, so there should be room for this matter to be paid at least. Second, could the senator consider taking even greater steps than this? But I appreciate this speech. It was excellent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u96	Madam President. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. I'm gonna let myself say that there's rarely a good reference too often, or what? I totally agree that, of course, this case has been discussed many times, although it has taken a different shift over the years. Now's the time. A senator's been here longer than I am, but now I'm in here, at least I'm doing my part. Of course, I sincerely hope that it will work out, and I can absolutely convince you why. A senator that, of course, I wasn't here and was putting up this case and talking to my colleagues about it except because I intend to do everything I can to get it through. I agree with the senator that it is important for me to consider this matter going into the Senate Hall. The years and even the decades go by, and we've never really taken a proper look at where the Senate stands against what I think is probably a step of liberation, an equal step for the benefit of consumers who are legally consumers. I'll do my part to get this case out of some crisis, and we'll get a proper reading on it, but the council's as it does, we all know it. At least I'll do my best. I myself have been a carrier on a bill that went further and can well agree with what. Senator, I can also support myself with other means and eliminate the monopoly and the like. However, we should not forget that this matter, in the position it is, is also an equal case. There is a social situation regarding, for example. A network store where goods can be accessed outside but not from our fancy domestic sources. So this is especially a step in that direction. But it's never gonna sit on me to take bigger steps for freedom. I promise.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u97	A respectable president. Never will good reference be too often -- Yes, it can be. I recall when I had my children to sleep with singing, and one of the children had grown tired of this, because I am rather toneless too, and I realize that it may have been a factor. But it was always the same lullaby I sang, and after a year my son puts his hand on my hand and says: " Mom, now I just can't do anything anymore. I think that's something like this for us after all these years, 20 years or whatever it is that you've been here, that we need to get this into the council and let us vote on this. Because no matter how good the talk was then, no more of this initiative in the council program, not being able to come with us and trust members of the council to vote for it. And what's the situation? The place where I'm going is right now. A senator and his party are in cooperation with other categories, two other categories that are not extraordinaryly interested in pressing the green button or the red button, the challenge and the responsibility that comes with it in large and small cases to vote in this hall. So it is true that there are two other administrative groups that do not allow this matter to enter a chamber. I want to go. A senator knows that I will strongly support her in getting this case out of the committee so that we don't have to hear this same statement for the next three years, because the terms of the season are just beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u98	Madam President. Yeah, yeah. A senator can do no more, but I can do more so that I can take the baton and do what I can to get it done. We agree that it is important to bring the matter into the Assembly Hall. Hv. A senator insists that this case will never get here, and it is our cooperation in the government that stands in the way of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u99	There's only 20 years of experience with it...
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u100	This matter of Congress is put ahead of me and others, and I'm going to stick to my optimism of this kind. I think it's all right that groups of government members don't agree, and I don't think it's okay to go into the Senate room just because it's not a mere matter of government service or if it doesn't cover the case. I think it would be a very monotonous session. But I understand the point. I understand the politics in the dot, and I'm not going to belittle any political bitch. Senator. But I'm gonna let myself disagree. This case certainly did not fit into a government covenant, that is correct, and has not been found in one government covenant if I recall correctly, but it does not change that I think it will be exciting to see which members of Congress will be supporting this issue in due time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u101	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for bringing in this bill. Of course, thanks to what is good, no matter where it comes from and how often it has been displayed in different forms. In fact, I don't think that there may have been often a bill on the website with alcohol, perhaps several times. But I think it's very true what we just saw, that there probably is more to this matter, to open up more of a store with alcohol. However, that change may not depend clearly on whether people are in a position of government or government. I have lived in a number of countries where alcohol has been sold differently. I lived, for example. In a state in the United States where sales of alcohol were given free, experience there was very simple. It didn't change anything. She didn't change anything, she didn't care. The difference was that there were no state or state stores with alcohol, but they were in the grocery store and it didn't change people's behavior. All I'd make up for what I did. The General and Education Committee is considering making a total of ten changes on this bill, and it's taking out the word 'twebs' everywhere, just doing this as a bill to legalize the law of shops with alcohol. That is a very simple change. There are ten places, I've marked it in the paper for the General and Education Committee if she wants to do it. It is also relatively simple for committee writers to change, the committee stage, because such words can be taken out in a very simple way. At least I'll back it up. I know I'm sure I'm going to get 500 mails now from a liquor store opponent. But my experience, after living in many places, is that this will not change people's behavior, nor will it change people's drinking, but will simply make things simpler and more comfortable and not as limited as they are today. Let's hope we get to see this again, hopefully without the word'stabble'.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u102	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Sverrisdóttir Sverisdir for this bill and at the same time assert that I support this idea, and I support this bill. I think it's time for us to bring liquor stores and what brings alcohol and tobacco into our time, and I hope this is the last time we discuss something like this at the Assembly Hall of 1st. And that it may go any further, that I may join my voice. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. This idea, or bill, concerns the access of people to alcohol, and I think this will contribute to the increased bioavailability that I think is very important. It's fine to start here. I'd like to see a bunch of booze shopping over my head, but that should just be my final goal and the final step hopefully. I'm also glad we're taking this in chicken steps, maybe it's easier for the council to digest it if it's taken in such a small step. But then there's the natural question, like what? paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir came in earlier, whether members of the council are about to agree with this, but I sincerely hope that there will be some reconciliation in the parties because it's been a big case now -- now I'm new in politics and I've been watching for the last four to five years, but there's always been a big point in the campaign to modern liquor sales, so I'm just waiting on how this case is going to develop. I just hope that's all. A senator and a messenger feel support, at least within the party of Pirata, at any rate I support it. paritaprevir Gísli Rafn Ólafsson. But to be honest, I don't know how this is gonna develop. Pirata's senators are very often asked if we are following these laws over our heads and spears a little focused on us for delaying this case in committees or Congress halls, but I'd like to know that it's not happening today and we're supporting it all the way here, and I'm just waiting for the trend and hoping it's going well.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u103	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate what I said before, I'm very opposed to this case, which I feel is actually going too far in the entire environment we're discussing, trusting the person in order to have a normal access to legitimate material that's alcohol. I'm sorry, though, and I hope that it was a misunderstanding - but when I say that I just can't get any more of this, I don't want to talk about show-offs, political bitch we're about to witness that which is always meant for home bridges. Ministers and members of Congress, particularly the Ministers of the Progress Party, have a wide variety of statements designed to challenge certain issues and to follow no serious questions, and there is no problem with those words. I hope that's why. A senator is so determined that she realizes that she has not only the support of her party but also the support of other classes here at a council that is not with her in the government. What a surprise it would be if the messengers of the bill failed to realize that in order to get it into this chamber, which is of utmost importance to the progress of the matter, other members of the council need to speak to them and get them to support and cooperate with a messenger in order for this matter to come here. It's a challenge not to be able to do this after all these years, whether in this case or in any of the other matters that should be so probably for us to take up a discussion here and for a vote, from smaller issues to big business, even if it's a huge prince's matter of individual freedom and how a community would like to live in. Hv. paritaprevir That's exactly what Gísli Rafn Ólafsson had to say after living abroad, and there are a lot of people in this body hall who have lived in foreign lands who realize that it is totally possible to have this great freedom. It's just part of people's quality of life. If we really believe that we are not supposed to be prejudiced all over the community, this is probably a normal step. But this also requires that we consider the methodology. The methodology is not simply to keep the case with itself to that end, as I say, to use it to home bridges. Rather, it is an enormous case of the nature that other classes must be joined into it. It's the only way you're gonna get it in this chamber. Not unless a panel of green green green people are already involved. We fully know that if a government leader is opposed to any matter coming in here, it's not coming in here. It's just that way. There is one subject that has been given here in recent years, and I remembered when I sat and listened to it. A senator speaks earlier, one language recently that I remember, and really at my time here, where the Hall of Congress got to vote and that was about a human committee. We at Reunion suggested putting down the Human Name Committee. The case was completed at the Committee, and then it came to an agreement between the parties at the end of the council, and I stressed the matter for a discussion at the Assembly Hall. I was told, "You know this case is going to be canceled." I said, "Good, it's just gonna be cut off." Then, too, we know who have talked about freedom freely about supporting the system, especially in behalf of freedom, and then who have not followed it here into the Assembly Hall. The human names proposal came in here, and these were the government parties that voted in, including the Independence Party, a large part of it. Not what? A senator, but I'm saying a big part of him. That's the way it is. It was guaranteed that if the case went into the Senate Hall, it would be cut off. There were enough members of the Independence Party who voted against the case so that it would be canceled, a case that you would have thought was not exactly bound to more things and smaller things, a case that would cross parties and should be allowed to vote according to their convictions. All too often, we get opportunities for these matters, only to float. They can float, yes, yes, on the contrary like this case that we are discussing. I think what we should agree on, me and the other. A senator and others here who have spoken wisely, feel that I am taking this matter out of a Senate committee. It's the next step. That's exactly what I'd have thought. Senators would welcome that. It would be a giant step toward the increased freedom we think is the best thing for our free and good Icelandic society. But that's just the way it is. There's still a walk in this case, and I'm in.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u104	Madam President. Thank you. A senator of this speech. I respect it for what. A senator told her that there could be a misunderstanding. I want to stress that there is certainly some sort of misunderstanding if I have in some way suggested that I would not be interested in the matter coming into the Senate Hall and we would hear as many members of the council. You see, it's quite the opposite, and I'm pretty sure I came in on it earlier. But at least I wanted to come and explain it so that it was perfectly clear. I agree that this case would be very wishful to get out of the committee, and we would, as I put it earlier, get this reading on a case that's been stuck in a tire tire, all sorts of credit and guess talk, for a very long time. I think it would be very helpful to see which members of Congress would support that matter. I agree with what. Senator, there are a lot of cases I've seen going through and not enjoying a track gang and they would have gone different if I had been hired, and so can be said of all the 63 parties sitting here in this hall. Maybe I'd like to end up saying that I hope there's no misunderstanding, and I think that's why. A senator would not want to see the Senate work any other way than so that members of the council would present the issues they believe in. None of us can be sure of this for exactly what happens, but of course, you present a case in that belief and the assurance that it will do good to the community. There's so much more you can't do. Has a what? Is there any other idea that the matter is going to be over, so that I am not mistaken?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u105	A respectable president. No, not at all. That's exactly the wonderful thing about being a member of Congress because you believe what you're offering, you believe it'll be better for society. You are fulfilling the responsibility of being a senator by presenting a matter of Congress, whether it is queries to inform matters and inform the public, digging more fully into what is happening, or simply a synonym or bill, as we are talking about here. The ideals are so wonderful for every man in Congress. That's why there's so much sin that the pieces and loads are so heavy in here. We are not allowed to vote for these ideals at the council Hall. Although they overlapd, they are not allowed. It is possible to look over the entire hall and imagine, when the hall is full, this force that is behind every senator, the contact he has had in a campaign, at work visits, in talks, in literature, or in what he or she has experienced. But then all of this conservative old thing comes, and we don't get this opportunity here at the Senate Hall. That's what I'm talking about. We have to change and try to establish some kind of rule of at least, even if it might be uncomfortable with government parties or some sort of government opposition, that's just the way it is. But it is also our duty to vote on our convictions and conscience, and we must only respect it if there is someone on the red side of this matter, we will respect those opinions and will not belittle them. But we need to know. This is what I'm talking about, so we won't be here for the next 20 years, if I stay here for another 20 years, so this speech won't be moved back in 20 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u106	A respectable president. In view of the recent events, it may be right for us to take a careful discussion of the situation and future of Iceland in the international system and its cooperation. The controversy proposal that we now address is based on the fact that we, on the woodfront, believe it's long time to work the assessment of our country's state in regional, international cooperation. This is not the first time we make this suggestion, and I'd like to reiterate that this is more important than never before. I'm going to tell you that we've been the only group that allowed themselves to touch foreign affairs in one form or another in the campaign five months ago, whether we talked about the European Union or the defence, and it's not always the most popular thing. I would also like to wonder in the future that we are offering a pact proposal that will hopefully be published tonight or tomorrow which will exactly involve increasing our international cooperation in the field of security and defense and as suggestions on how we are going to improve our security and protection and our cooperation, especially in Europe. We must continue with full force, to promote cooperation both with the United States and with NATO, as well as with the European countries, and so we do best with full involvement. We would like to see a minister of foreign affairs agreeing with the General Assembly's Foreign Affairs Committee to make an assessment of our status in international cooperation, and we would like to see that a committee of experts would be assigned to do the assessment and to evaluate how Iceland's state can be strengthened internationally. There you go, too. assessment of how Iceland's interests in culture, politics, goods, and economics would be best paid in international cooperation. Since the end of World War II, Iceland has been involved in many international cooperation. The aim has been to strengthen the state of the country in cultural, political, cultural, and economic and commercial communities. It is unmistakably that this diverse cooperation has strengthened the national sovereignty and improved the economy of our Icelanders. In the wake of World War II, Iceland was at a fork in the road. Then it became clear that the decision of the 1918 Treaty to maintain strict neutrality could not stand the changed world scene. However, there was a conflict of neutrality until the British occupation led us to take sides with the nations that were next to us in the ideological sense. As a result, Iceland became a member of the Bretton Woods Convention on multinational currencies and subsequent members of the United Nations. Then Iceland became one of the founding states of the Atlantic Community, which we today can especially see as one of the greatest happinesss we have ever made in our history in foreign affairs. Iceland members of the Council of Northern Ireland have been members of the general agreement on customs and trade since the end of the 1960's and are members of the WTO. At the beginning of the 1970's, Icelanders became European Free Trade Associations, then members of the European Union's internal market through the EEA, and then participated in the Schengen Community work in 2001. All these steps were in their own way responding to the changed circumstances. They described how, under the circumstances of the day, it was considered reasonable to seek refuge and to secure the interests of the country in various international cooperations. All this cooperation has developed and changed over the years. In some cases, the political and economic importance of individual organisations has increased but decreased in others. The foreign political decisions that are behind these steps in the multinational activities of the era from the beginning of the Cold War to the end of the war. For the next three decades, no new step has been taken to the Seyngen Nation. It's the longest period in these substances during the republican season. The scene of the Cold War was relatively simple. Two powerful forces, led by the United States of West and by socialism under the Soviet Union, arose. Ideas were discovered in two ways, with the ideals of democracy and free trade, while the ideal world of totalitarianism and socialism, and we see that the universe is taking control of Russia again. After the Cold War ended, many felt that the world had become simpler. The democracy and internationalization would simply have been a triumph of socialism. Thus, the streets behind the fall of the 1989 Berlin Wall did not seem at first to be a basis for reevaluation of international cooperation. But the simple world scene that faced that turning point never came true. Thirty years later, we are still at a crossroads. The world scene is much more complicated than ever. The power of both and ideologies is more destructive, and we can see that now, especially when the Ukraine War is in progress, we still see it, even though the ideologies have been more fragmented, that the lines are still changing. It is strong to see democracies, Western countries, the European Union, stand firm against the totalitarian power of Pútín and Ukraine. But as you look at the pulls of the world scene, the United States is still on the front, but it is not based on coalitions in the same way as before. The United States'cooperation with its allies is increasingly based on their own interests and, to a lesser extent, on common ideals and interests or solidarity with them. During the coming decades, China may be the potential government for international leadership. Next, the rapidly growing European Union is much more effective than before, but it certainly faces certain internal problems. The thought - provoking background of this changed world picture is also complex and far from as simple as in the Cold War. Europe's idealism can be said to be the product of Western democratic ideas of the Cold War. Chinese dictatorism is growing on the edge of the river. In Britain and the United States, concepts of free trade have shifted from international cooperation to two - side agreements, where the strong have the same strength. This is a dangerous development, a respectable president, for smaller countries where it is generally thought to be protected from the rising power of larger countries within the international community. Finally, there is the ethnic background that is seen in different forms from one State to another. In addition, an increasing number of religious conflicts are taking place. Also available in Iceland, these currents are urgent for us to map the situation and our interests with a view to ensuring that Iceland's status in international cooperation will not be reassigned to internal politics. In the years of the Cold War, the regional climate of the United States was developed and remained virtually unchanged. The question is, Has not the world scene changed so much in recent years that it may be said that we are once again at a fork? Is that not reason to reevaluate how we provide political shelter, protective shelter, and economic interests in the best interests of our country in the future? I'd like to be able to handle some facts in this relationship: When the currency collapsed and the banks fell in 2008, Iceland was found to have no shelter. The northern position was shaped by the position of others, such as the European Union and the International Cash Fund. Despite our involvement in internal markets, we were not a member of the European Union and therefore did not draw political strength there. Contrary to the experience of cold war years, the United States had read the words. The Atlantic Union was not the political sponsor it had to form in the codfish wars. This raises the question, Does Iceland not need to change in view of further political refuge? In the decades that followed, China will be the world's ruler. Thus, Iceland, like other nations, has to communicate well with Chinese people. However, differences in ideologies create obvious dangers in this subject. It should be noted in the context of the Soviet Union's switch to the early part of the Cold War that it would not have been possible, without the political influence of the Soviet Union on Icelandic affairs, except by the political protection provided by the Atlantic Alliance. Over time, however, the political cover of European countries has increased from the Atlantic Union to the European Union. It is important to answer the question of whether a stronger or deeper multinational cooperation can strengthen Iceland's position in dealing with China and other powerful countries, whether smaller countries are less protected in big states and are more secure. After Iceland adopted sustainable fishing management, economic change has to a lesser extent than its roots in the fishing industry. It is increasingly associated with the fluctuations of a small currency. Thus, the question of seeking greater stability in the European currency union has been considered. In this regard, it can be noted that the Danish crown's connection with euro has been a key requirement for stability and economic growth, including from our cousins in the Faeroe Islands. It has also been noted that it is difficult to balance the wrongs we live with, for some are able to stand outside the placid economy, while others are limited to coins paid in international exchange. This difference has led to an increase in property divisions. We must begin to recognize it. Iceland has been a party for international currency services, first for the Norwegian currency alliance and later for the Bretton Woods Community. Both periods were accompanied by good economic growth, innovation, and foreign investments. Then I want to be able to handle the climate. It is of utmost importance when the United States has moved away from international cooperation in this area, but the European Union has achieved remarkable results. In part, the United States has paralyzed the North Pole's work on climates at the same time that Iceland took lead there last year. The success of climates without international cooperation is unlikely. So it is important to answer the question of how Iceland can best deal with climate in international cooperation. In the world of international civilizations, international corporations have grown so fast that their efforts and influence threaten many national and national powers, great and small. The European Union has achieved beyond any international organisation in extending the share of nationalities to global corporate conglomerates, and there are several examples of this. Because of their size, Iceland's international impact will always be limited. On the other hand, the Member States of the European Atlantic Alliance, the European Free Trade Association, and the Council of Northern America have shown that Iceland's effectiveness is greater when we sit at the table. With its involvement in the EEA, we adopted European legislation, which is predominant in all areas of national development. It may be asked whether it would strengthen the political refuge of Europe and increase its impact if Iceland became a member of the European Union at the same level as an alliance. This is by no means an inexhaustible list of points, a respectable president. I would particularly like to remind you that the Council's conclusion that we are making, and hopefully will be published no later than tomorrow, that is exactly what it means to look for a full involvement in the European Union, especially from the defense and security issues where their weight will increase very much in the European Union, and we cannot ignore this question. We must take these matters more seriously, and it is a concern that we do not see any leadership of this government during the past four years in terms of evaluating where Icelandic interests are best paid. You must simply not talk about foreign affairs, you simply must not. It's hard to talk about the leadership of defense and security when the leadership class is completely opposed to NATO, and then all the classes are against the European Union. There must not be mention of the European Union, as we do, in this room right now when we need to have the courage and courage to evaluate the best interests of our life. We have to start doing it. But guidance and leadership do not come from the government of Iceland. It seems to me that the modified world form shows a two-way choice, i.e. to continue with a two - side agreement or to enter a multinational partnership on a stronger and larger scale, but we also need to consider how we strengthen our work and increase our responsibility and contribution there, not just by receiving refugees and doing a certain service and giving human kindness, by giving a hug open but also by how we can expand our civil service and contributions within NATO. We are, transporters, following up the information on the possible involvement of Iceland into the European Union. We feel that it would be preferable to take them back to our national pay, and there should be no danger of trusting the nation for evaluating whether we should continue to communicate and to complete them. I am convinced that as the situation exists today in international affairs, the need for us to evaluate these interests in behalf of all of our Icelanders, in behalf of the values we would like to represent, in the interests of freedom, democracy, and human rights. I am convinced that those values are better paid when we are involved in the European Union and sit at the table to protect exactly the values we want to represent. Our voice needs to be heard there at the table.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u107	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for good reporting on this council resolution may at times have to push matters forward in line with what we were discussing earlier. As the situation is here at this time, it is difficult to get people to be ready to join the European Union, at least with the current government sector. But I agree with what. A senator about the change and development of things and needs to think about this multiethnic work. Hv. A senator mentioned that she wanted to be paid nationally before a discussion, or before further discussions, depending on the way a person sees it. I wanted to hear from what I heard. A senator how she envisioned the involvement of the public in that process, national pay before speaking to the EU, national law after the European Union has been contacted. Should we have national tax on another international organization? If I recall correctly, there was no national agreement about NATO in 1949. I just want to hear something. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u108	A respectable president. I really don't want to compare the situation we're facing right now with Iceland in 1949. I believe it was the right thing to do, that being part of the defense alliance has been a successful step, and I think history has shown it. By doing so, we have contributed to the long - term peace of Europe until now. I am convinced that it was the right thing to do. A national agreement - yes, I am a follower of a national fee. I proposed in July 2009, which was made up of a greater proportion of convergence and left greens, to have the nation in charge from the beginning and when a contract was due and a public sharing of information had taken place on his nature, I wanted to see a national bill afterwards. I believe that this would have left us without the wolf crisis that followed since 2009,2013, when we saw it in the face of a very firm and powerful minister of foreign affairs, then a member of Congress, Össur Skarphéðinsson, try to push the case forward while the left greens were all opposed. This is one of these matters that eventually became symbolic. But if the people had chosen before, their agitation would not have been present with the left green. And the people would have said yes. It was, reminded me, 70% of the nation's opinion that the process should begin. It would have been quite different for the local government to start the process with consent in the books. If so, we would not have seen those two difficult poles afterwards. Yes, I still believe, though some say that we should just decide this here, that the nation must be involved. It doesn't take long. The application is still there. It just needs to be pushed, and in my opinion, it's the people who can do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u109	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I just wanted to touch a dot like that. A senator entered in his reply. In 2009, 13 years ago, there was debate. A member of the U.S. Senate of the U.S.A. could have thought of walking in the EU. In recent years, the EU has had a slight clinical crisis, the British are disappearing from the relationship, and not everyone is sure how to ensure that it would not be a complete drop in the EU. However, it can be said that Pútín has been able to shake the EU very well over two weeks, and as a result, it is likely that the EU may again have become stronger. Three years ago, when the Biffit talks were high, I think it may have been very controversial against the EU in the community, and although this discussion was mainly in the United Kingdom, I think it has been transmitted here too. The British may regret this now, we'll see. But how does that count? A senator playing together, i.e. These fluctuations in how the EU is going and then public opinion on involvement in the EU or increase in participation? In 2009, in favor of a discussion, 60 to 470 percent, can she shoot at where it is now?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u110	A respectable president. I remember that the last time I examined, there was almost 35% of the people who were present, 40% in return, and the rest who wanted to take a closer look at things. That was the situation five or six months ago when I examined it. The European Union is not a perfect relationship. We have different categories. We have groups that are on the far left and on the far right, we have the plutonium classes. Happily, it is now happening that Marine Le Pen and her team fish and Salvini - these people are a little ashamed now and are rather out of the way when their principal sponsor, Pútín, who is also their financial sponsor, acts on this vast sovereignty and violence and violates international law. We should also not forget that after World War II, after its end, we formed the Atlantic alliance. That's when the Americans also joined this great Marshall plan, the financial support of the ruined Europe, was totally ruined after World War II. Iceland and I also benefited from Marshall's assistance. Then the United States pressured Europe to take a measure of responsibility for its future, and part of it was pressured into the establishment of the European Union, as it was then, which changed into the European Union. It's two sides of the same coin. I've often said it's two sides of the same coin, one side of NATO and then the European Union, which is to ensure economic and financial freedom. Where there is economic stability, peace is more likely to exist. Where there is economic instability and chaos, the understatement, the special security, there is war. They knew that at the time, they saw the need to build up. There's the foundation I want to connect to. That's why we should carefully examine it, Madam President, to apply for a full involvement in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u111	Madam President. I'll keep this brief as I know that there are other senators waiting to find out their own business. But I just wanted to talk about international cooperation, whether there are three states, five states, or 27 countries, whether it is a multinational teamwork, such as the European Public Safety Team, which has 37 countries. All this cooperation can be good. It's gonna cost you. But things can also be obtained from it. It's important, like a beard. The senator spoke about the people of the country, especially when there is a large international cooperation that can have a great impact, it is important for people to be in control. When it comes to things like the European Union, that we want the people's will before we continue our discussion. We can think about the European Union in connection with this synopsis proposal but also in general just that international cooperation has developed, it has changed. Since my grandfather was here at the council, it broke out from a government he had formed with Ólafur Thors when it was decided to negotiate with the Americans first about being here and then about NATO, the world has changed ever since then. These international institutions and organizations have also evolved and changed, some slower than others. The suggestion even points back to Bretton Woods, and I've just been there and seen where all of this happened. There are some fascinating stories about how Americans controlled all the members of the Committees, so the outcome of all negotiations was always in the interests of the Americans. There's a lot of things in this that may be possible to develop and have developed, and whether the Congress proposal reaches out to get into the Senate or not, I think it's important that the government and we at the council are ready to rethink all the cooperation we have and to think about how it's developing, not just stay in some partnership and put money in it, because it's always been that way. Perhaps there is a better setting to do things than the ones we have used in recent decades. If I take it out of this synonym that things have changed and we need to rethink them and we need to be ready to look at things, I think that's good.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u112	A respectable president. I make a proposal here for a hearing, which says: ▪ The General concludes to hide a food secretary to appoint a group with the objective: a. provide suggestions on how to limit the compression of the possession of breeding persons, b. examine whether to limit the possession of foreign partners in breeding areas. The minister leaves the results of the Group for the General Assembly no later than September 30, 2022. A report says: In Iceland, a growing young industry is in rapid growth, but over the last few decades there has been a great rise in fish farming. Tremendous developments have also occurred in salmon farms in our neighboring countries of the North Atlantic; salmon farms are designed to produce larger economics in Norway than traditional sea transport. It is important that we view development in neighboring countries and use the experience there so that healthy activities can be built up in our country. The possession of salmon farms in Iceland has developed a high degree of compression, which can lead to a small number of companies being the dominant partners. In this business, which is highly important to others, but to a specific size there is an undesirable effect, including to the security of those who work in this article. Apostles on Fishing, No. 71/2008, do not restrict future sales in salmon farms, but exposé, rent, and mortgage are subject to the approval of the Food Agency. One person may obtain a valid license, thus operating all productions on fish and fish farms in the sea and on land. As a result, large areas of territory are abandoned by one individual, resulting in more involvement, rural, and governmental systems under which there is a high level of control. Is It Designed? No. 44/2005, with a bad grip on salmon farms in Iceland, where salmon companies sell their main majority of produce from abroad. Transporters point out that in Faeroe Laws in the Faeroe Islands, there are laws forbidding the possession of more than half of the available salmon containers. It also contains a set of regulations that no non-President lawyer can have more than 20% of the voteable items in companies that have salmon license. It is considered in Norway to bring comparable regulations into law. Laxeldis companies in Iceland are in the majority of the country's tenant foreigners, and they look like a significant compression of their holdings. Icelandic law does not contain restrictions on the possession of foreign residents in fish farms. Transporters believe that it is necessary to consider whether such property should be restricted. It can be considered that in the laws on the investment of foreign workers in business, No. 34/1991 is a requirement for commercial fishing to be restricted to enterprises which do not belong to foreign sources to more than 25% based on stock or stock. Transporters believe that it is important to investigate the need for comparable rules about salmon farming. Transporters find it important to ensure legalization that in Iceland salmon farms will not be owned by a few persons, that the diversity of countries in this article, and that property will be localized. In addition to production in Iceland, it is very important to know that employment and human life in those areas will flourish. Certainly, it is not possible to ensure that the slaughter or agriculture of farm fish will be in a certain location. With better connections to the target population, however, decisions are likely to be made in relation to them. During the development of salmon farms in Iceland, a decision must be made to make sure that the fire gives the income to the community where the companies are located. Transporters are in favor of salmon farms in Iceland, but it is considered important that the article will not be owned by a few people. Laxeldi, Iceland, must grow and thrive with environment and society. The couriers of this proposal, along with me, are Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, Ágúst Garðarsson, Líneik Hrönn Sævarsdóttir, Hafdís Hafsteinsdóttir, Ingibjörg Isaksen and Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrigeirdótir. I suggest this proposal go to what? Business committee. So I've reviewed the key factors in this proposal and I'm finished with my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I may not have done everything yet, but I notice that the applicant's party is going to some part of the fish fire that I think is normal for us to do the first. This is part of what we need to examine, and most important, I would like to agree that the possession is not sufficiently distributed. I take my heart to that show. At the same time, I'd like to ask why. A senator, because it seems to me that the whole body is more and less involved than perhaps a minister: Was there any discussion about raising the fishing fees or charges the article pays? In just three years, the export value of salmon has increased from 18 billion to over 50 billion, and it is heading to 60 billion, I think, this year, so there is an enormous footprint in the fishery. But I'd also like to ask, don't you think it's also necessary to record the pay that the fish farms have been postponed that I look like it until 2027? It is not until those who have started to pay to a certain extent. Does the senator think that it is a reason for us to reexamine along with this payment on fish farms?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u114	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer and for bringing up this point. That is exactly what I have made in the case of other counciling proposals in a professional committee that is about to take in fish farms. It may focus, not on the increase in currency, but on how the currency is divided. I think it's very important that we keep this in mind. We are in the early stages of this industry, especially in the sea undersea fire. To this end, this fire has been successful, but there are great growth pains in the communities and rural communities that live with such a fire. A more recent report from KPMG shows that only 26%, rather than 29%, go to the countryside, make a living, and that's the final issue. When we are talking about the payment that has already taken place, it is of great importance that it be divided justly, for it certainly needs to build strong wood in the places where service fires. I think it's very important that this discussion is taken, but if we've taken that discussion in particular with this bill, that's not necessarily so, we've taken it up in discussions about the second bill. But an increase in currency needs to be considered. Of course, the income of rural society and the State increases in proportion to the increase in values, but we always need to examine these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to draw out that I'm its firm sponsor, and we in Reunion have talked about it, that the resource expenditures, that I'm talking about the sea bus, are going to pay -- we want to go a certain route, but it's quite clear that through that, the resource costs will be much higher than they are now. In fact, no resource costs are actually paid, but these fishing costs, and we believe that they should be greatly increased. At the same time, it is to set up an deposit fund that is close to just the point of view. A senator talked about it. We'll need to point them into areas where they bear the weight. The same is true of the fish fire. It is only natural for us to look to the areas where the industry is building up and to consider rural associates who have had to sacrifice various things to build up jobs. I believe that now, because of the rapid growth of this article, we need to examine the role that is involved in the payment of the fishing road. I'd especially like to consider that as a matter of course. A senator has already submitted and is on a professional committee, how to link this up. Besides that, I wondered if a discussion could be united in the treatment of these two cases, and then I'm again with a distribution of property in mind. We need to review this aspect very carefully so that we can try to build fish farming in a way that will be more at peace with the nation than today is the seaside, and we should learn from it. I also think it is inevitable for us to consider even more environmental requirements when discussing fish farms. There's a lot to change, and we're supposed to be quick on the inside, making rich environmental demands more than we've ever done so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u116	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Yeah, I think we just need to stay on the watch all the time. Whether we need to change the environmental demand or increase it, I don't think we need to shrink it, but we need to stay on the watch constantly. Our life is changing, our technology is changing, and we need to ask ourselves how we can approach it. But I asked a verbal inquiry at the highest. Food minister last week, talking about the payout. There, a minister spoke of her plans to work on a fishing policy, where we wanted to go, and to take them all into the picture. Then it's just a suggestion to put a food secretary in order to order a team of workers, and this could run into that policy. I think it's very important that we sit down and see what changes we have to make, how we need to adapt to evolution. As we grow up with this article, we must always look at all eight of these matters, and that is very important. We must not lose sight of the environmental factors or how we can use this to build communities and to increase the income of rural society and the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-08-48.u117	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synonym that Iceland become a member of the United Nations Convention to ban nuclear weapons. I speak here on behalf of the motion, okay? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Arjörn's Árnadóttir, but the entourage is why. Councilmen of Jódís Skúladóttir, Bjarni Jónsson, Orri Páll Jóhannsson, and Kári Gautason. The suggestion itself is very simple, but it reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide the government for Iceland to sign and validate a ban on nuclear weapons approved at the United Nations Conference in New York, July 7, 2017, and went into effect on January 22, 2021. To overcome the agreement slightly, as suggested by the proposal, it runs its beginning up to 1968, which was in 2016 a number of nuclear weapons decided to try a new approach in the battle against these terrible weapons. It led to the ICAN organization and actually won the Nobel Peace Nóbel in 2017 for their fight. In support of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, we learn that the organization played a major role in bringing together the nations of the world and preparing for this vital covenant. There are about a fifth hundred ICAN groups of peace groups and partners around the world. You see, while there is a nuclear weapon, there is always a danger of being used. Unfortunately, most nuclear powers give enormous sums of money to develop even more perfect weapons than is present, and we see sadly, in the war we now experience, that such weapons are seriously discussed. Nuclear weapons are an irresistibly destructive force. No medical or humanitarian assistance is possible immediately following a nuclear attack. In the long run, such an attack will have disastrous consequences for humans, animals, environment and climates not to mention adverse effects on agricultural production, as well as a sudden decrease in global temperature and decline in exposure to smoke and dust. The threat of nuclear weapons, therefore, is the only guarantee against such weapons and the consequences of their use. Iceland's nuclear weapons policy is clear, including the aim of a non-terrestrial world and a targeted and mutual destruction of nuclear weapons. In this regard, Iceland through the years has supported a wide range of conclusions in the United Nations, which are in line for this goal. These goals appear in a national security policy for Iceland adopted at the General Assembly on April 13, 2016, where disarmament is specified in Article 1. The policy being guided by one means of ensuring the widespread security benefits of Iceland and will be done by active international cooperation. The national security policy also contains specific regulations that state that Iceland and Iceland are at peace with nuclear weapons taking into account international commitments in an effort to promote disarmament and peace by the part of Iceland, cr. 10th par. There, decades old government policy is not to use nuclear weapons in this country. As I mentioned earlier, a recent war in Ukraine has brought us closer to the threat of nuclear possession. Mankind's fate rests on the shoulders of a few leaders, who possess nearly 13,000 nuclear weapons, which on its own is immensely frightening. We are here talking about a force that is powerful enough to destroy our far - reaching planet. Only one nuclear weapon could kill and hurt hundreds of thousands if not millions and civilians and external radiation environment persist for generations. There is no adequate health response to such disasters, as I said earlier. It is a joy to know that since this proposal was first adopted, the countries that have validated the United Nations Convention on the Nuclear Prohibition are now 59, but the contract has firmly established a ban on the use of these weapons. The treaty also emphasizes the serious dangers posed by the continued existence of nuclear weapons and the irreversible and mass destruction of such weapons. The Convention also obligates countries to provide nuclear support to policy makers as well as to restore reform because of their contaminated environment. A respectable president. As long as there are nuclear weapons, the risk of their use remains. The world cannot continue to hold its breath and rely on the reason of world leaders who have such weapons and who, in fact, have the power to destroy us all, the threat is real. We must eliminate these weapons of mass destruction. Therefore, I encourage the General Assembly to take decisive action, to set an important example for other NATO countries, and to step in order to validate the United Nations Convention on the ban on nuclear weapons. We must recognize that this threat is really there, and now we look at a crazy national leader who is going nowhere. I have to say, on behalf of this matter, on behalf of the firstborn of this matter, to the Lord of the assembly, to the Lord's daughter Árnadóttir Þóra, who is making this case the sixth time, that I hope that this matter will pass through the council, and will have a course. Like what? A senator, when she presented the case last year, said with the permission of a president: "It does not mean anything to say on days when we are a peace - loving and warless nation but then do not contribute when it comes to ban the most notorious weapons ever invented. With these words, I will finish my speech and suggest that the case be referred to. Foreign Directoring Committee and subsequent discussions.
