ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u1	Borist has a letter from the University of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, the 6th. We're out of here. "that she'll be gone soon. Today, therefore, the company's 1st deputy member of the Independence Party is in the district, Arnar Þór Jónsson. He has previously taken his place at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Education and Children where it is requested every time to give a written answer to a spell query. 653, of the recognition of medical education obtained in another country, from Helga Vala Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u3	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Senate allows.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u4	Mr. President. I was wondering if the President needs to unscrupulous the government team a little. At least there is something to be confused about the reality of its relationship with the chairman of the parish Party yesterday, about his mistaken position of holding the council's activities hostage, and then today, in the long dog of the Council of Independence Party, that the Senate is in slow motion over something he calls the filament of the government position. Yesterday we didn't even complete a meeting. We had to go home early because when discussions about the telecommunications bill ended, there were no ministers here to measure further issues. The same people as on community media say they're going around the town ready with their storylines in the bag to run in here and measure things, they didn't get in the house. It was the only assembly meeting day this week, and the government is not now deciding that one of the three meetings is being laid on a political issue. No, it's the president of the Generals himself. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to ask a respectable president to direct it to his members in the administrations to stop this mess, to stop lying to the government's side that here we have everything in our hands when they're their own ministers who can't even show up.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u5	A respectable president. Yes, I have to agree. I don't think it's a good thing if the chairman of a House of Directors, huh? paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson, call out what's going on in this hall some sort of seminary exercise. I don't know better than we've been sitting here having a very good conversation with the highest. He's the health secretary for his prime products. We were here yesterday discussing telecommunications bill. I decided to take this with me and show all the articles that I did very materially and seriously in this chamber yesterday on what could be done better. This is what we should be doing as members of the council. We're not doing any speech exercises. We're doing our job. That is not all there is to say about many other causes. Allied council members, they don't even show up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u6	To answer, financial and economic ministers, environment, energy and climate ministers, education and child - care ministers, and civil and business ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u7	A respectable president. The government is going to take a few steps to increase the resources of pension to invest in foreign lands. When you read the opinion of the Contestant Board and others, you can see that there is a risk that it could weaken the competitive environment and lead to a potential problem of property microbubbles. The pension fund itself has pointed out that because of the interests of funds, those who have paid into the pension fund, there is a considerable risk of abduction of a domestic estate market that can lead to the introduction of the biosaturation collections to some extent in the future. In addition, a respectable president is the capital of the pension fund in most of the largest registered firms in Iceland. In other words, the problem is that the same owners are at the banks and their main customers. This, of course, presents a serious risk, such as the pension fund. If checked, the contact will be sent to the address listed on page 5 of this magazine. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who has made a case or who has at least made it clear that he should take the step of giving the pension funds to invest in abroad from half to 68% from this year to 2038, and that is why he is referred to as a chicken step. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Does he sees the possibility of faster charges and even larger steps? They're talking about whether it's supposed to go up to 70%, even 75%, give it to the pension fund. First, I ask: If he insists on taking bigger, more specific steps, and the thresholds will be made more available to the pension fund to invest in foreign assets, which, in their opinion, matters to avoid losing the value of funds for which they are responsible?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u8	A respectable president. This is referred to a bill recently in consultation with the Council, and we took care of the case from the government yesterday with a few adjustments after a consultation. It's now members of the council, so I hope they'll be distributed here at the council today or tomorrow. But yes, I can say that I will suggest that we make any comments, but we are not wide open to foreign sources, but we follow the advice we have received and rely on the assessment of these matters. What a joy it is in itself to see how strong Iceland's pension system is! Not long ago, the Icelandic Pension Fund received a first grade in comparison with other systems. It is now about twice as much national production as it can be said that this is a chicken step when the pension fund receives additional clearances each year because it can be said in itself that each percentage of the world's produce is as large as 2% of the country's total. That's a lot of money. And when we start counting the changes in scores of percentages up to 50%, we're talking about a change of 30% of domestic product. There are new sources to invest in foreign lands. How wise it is to do so, and how satisfying it is that we do not have to worry deeply about it! On the other hand, the right thing is right. A senator mentioned, it is a challenge for no greater economy than ours to have a pension system that is twice the domestic product. So finding an investment and finding potential for good fruitage is a challenge. Therefore, I think it's time to take these steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u9	A respectable president. I'm happy if these pension notes have been taken into account. They are selective in pointing out that it is a real danger, as they have mentioned it themselves, that the evaporation of a domestic property market can then lead to an even more serious risk, that the domestic collections of pensions will in some way be unsuspectable to the future. The Pensions must point out this, and I'm happy if the government is going to take some step longer than a chicken step. It's just a step like this right now. The elephant in this porcelain shop may not be mentioned, but there is, of course, $1 00. We can see that, first of all, the reason for the financial and economic ministers is to be careful and that it is not unusual for us as long as we have the crown. But it is clear that this is to prevent the stability of currency markets from being threatened. This is primarily to defend the Icelandic crown, and that is, in fact, another debate. But while we live in this situation, I still feel that it is important that the message becomes clear, that the score will be larger, and that these pension funds will be taken into account to invest even more in foreign property.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u10	Madam President. Among the new reports on this subject, there is no reason to believe that foreign investments are essentially less risky than investments in the Icelandic economy. That is why it is not quite fair to claim that this is primarily about the Icelandic crown. Still, we must take it to account that such large sums of money can be affected in the country. The good news is that a few years ago, the Icelandic national team made the first positive position toward abroad, after the stability proposal, and that situation has only increased in the meantime. So we can go to this discussion with confidence. Our situation with the outside world has only grown stronger. That position has been built on the basis and supported by our own currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u11	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has now published a new government financial program, and it is not to be seen that it takes much attention to the development of the last few months, much less during the last few weeks. Yet, what appears to be a red thread in the policy of this government is continuing to expand. It is improved to the Community City Line Policy in Reykjavík, pay for it, and all kinds of air. But let's leave it in the middle of things, Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. Minister, in spite of its failure to be seen in a financial program: Has the government made any plans, plans to deal with the global economic catastrophe; massive inflation, very likely raw, to form building materials? Has the government evaluated the effects of this and produced some response, some plan on how to react? Because this will inevitably affect Iceland as well as any other country, but we have not heard much of the government's reaction. The questions are, Mr. President: Has the government evaluated what is expected, how much effect can be, and has the government's plan to react?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u12	A respectable president. This may be the first development, but according to a new financial plan, the total cost of the state will fall as a percentage of land production, i.e. if the plan is successful. In my mind, this means that the public business will be lighter on the economy and will not be burdened on taxpayers, but will be relatively lighter. In the coming years, there is relatively small real growth on the expense side. Regarding the natural disasters that lay before us. A senator mentions the consequences of the war, increasing inflation, possible raw deficiency, and has been discussed from various viewpoints in the government. We've been dealing with an economic friendship on that matter, and we've been wondering what would be expected in energy matters. If so, I may not be referring to the fact that fuel has been rising, oil. We have also been discussing the matter with regard to food security and the supply status. There are friends in this matter who are in line for protection and security, who have also been on the agenda and are on a good path. So I would like to answer yes, that in the government field the matter has been discussed, and in each place a different factor is being seen. The Ministry of Presidency aims to coordinate government action in areas where coordination is needed. But it's a little early, I think, to call for immediate action. We may be able to rejoice that we had already taken action, such as. to cancel the cost of goods and other forms of spells that others would bring upon the items that are about to rise to an extreme degree.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u13	Mr. President. I understand the highest. Ministers such as that ministers in the government were only talking about this matter, discussing over a cup of coffee at a government meeting that inflation may be growing, and having to keep an eye on it, but there is no plan, there is no plan, there is no plan on how the effect might be, and how to deal with it. So I'm going to figure out the question better and ask the highest question. A minister would consider dealing with the inevitable, and when the current increase in energy prices is reduced, even if only temporarily, the State's ban on fuel. That, on its own, would have a major impact on the economy, on all professions, and, of course, on the loans of the households, i.e. that the government will reduce the predictable rise in fuel.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u14	A respectable president. I have previously expressed myself in this matter; at this point, it is not more important for us to begin to reduce the strain of oil or fuel. We have extensive operations to reduce oil and fuel use. We've had special charges on fuel, just in order to push on the energy exchange, and it would blow if the same government would make special efforts to facilitate fuel use, increase emissions, etc. To the extent that fuel prices increase are beginning to exert economic influence - but we are not yet seeing - I feel that this might be considered, but it would require a sustained rise and a measurable effect. We simply do not keep our eyes fixed on the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u15	Mr. President. The first financial programme of the government is now in place, which is published in which the government intends to attack during the terms of the election. It also shows that the rulers of the states see the country's population. Therefore, it is relevant for all the security of institutions in the management of public funds that financial programs are linked to the actual will and plan of the government at any time. Saturday's palace has been out of shape for years, but the situation is considered illegal for international races in handball and basketball. The Icelandic national teams have thus had to play their home games abroad, but they have also had little sales on the Axis field and in the small. The Saturday course is also on that date, and it is late for Iceland's national football team to play their home games abroad, wherever it will be. Despite years of discussion on the importance of a new national palace and national arenas, promises of election action, declarations in a government covenant and whatever, groups of work are still assigned to work on top of new and new reports. But, Mr President, there is not a dollar on this project in the financial program of this terms for the government. No money and so vague terms on investments to the future that it seems morning light that there will be no such structure. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is there nothing to mark the declarations of the government, either in a government contract, before elections, after elections, or in the talks of ministers in the past months? Is there nothing to mark what is said outside this room and in this room?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u16	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Helga Sgt. Helgadóttir for this inquiry, saying that it is absolutely clear from this government that we are putting what lies at this national and national arena in place. However, there is an entirely premium - and there has to be some basic work to do, it is a management group active because we need to have a conversation with the city and the sports movement - that we have to form where we start, what we stress. I'll take into account what you're worried about. A senator with special internal sports. That work is in full swing. I expect that on either side of this weekend, we will introduce ourselves to the steps we take during this terms of terms. A further conversation with the city might be conducted because there has only been a conversation with the city in the past few weeks, and then we will be able to figure out exactly what money it takes for each of these projects. In the meantime, we have an undeveloped budget that has been observed, both in interviews with the person who stands here and at the highest. Economic and economic ministers, which is used for the tasks required to achieve this speed-up. So there is no such thing as debates. A senator who is being betrayed the nation for national arenas or national palaces and that the government is not going to fulfill it. The answer has been totally clear and clear that this is the intention. Once we see exactly what money is needed for the job, we can form it better. In the meantime, it has not crossed between me and the secretary of finance that we have been able to do the work involved in this work, but it takes time, design, organization, conversation, and priorities to do it. That's the project being carried out, that's what I'm doing as a minister, and that's what I'm going to complete in this ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, that he says that he will put the structure of national arenas and national palaces ahead of the fact that there is not one dollar in the budget, though it must be a policy we make. But with President's permission, a financial programme says about an investment problem: ▪ This space gradually grows over time and becomes quite close to the end of the period, possibly - perhaps - ▪ sharing some larger investments in the latter part of the period. The same financial strategy is that this perhaps investing project is the national arena, a national sports hall, an art university, a technical school. We received a 2015 report on the cost of this project in the Saturday Valley, another report for 2018, a service group reporting in January 2019. How many reports do we need, Mr. President, if there's no money you're going to make on the project? Where are you gonna take the money? You're gonna take the money out of the health system? You're gonna take the money out of the welfare system? If you don't put the money on the magazine, how should we believe that there is something in the budget? Seriously, it's in a financial program that says what you're going to do, not here with some pretty little thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u18	A respectable president. It is clear that we need to understand the amount of money needed to do the work. [[Up front.]] - Honorable President, it's hard to answer when the senator acts on timelessly every time we have a place to say. It is absolutely clear that we are going on these projects. I have to say, I think this is less of a conversation since the last term, when it was considered an extension and an increase in the pay on maternity vacations. The first financial program suggested that we plan to do that work. We were supposed to be working on it. The government situation, which is now the same, criticized the lack of financial support, the fact that it was all a fraud. The result? The birth stock system was doubled, payment was raised, it was extended to maternity vacations. The same will be the case here. We're working on these things. It's political. When you have the money you need for the job, it becomes an earmark especially. To date, however, the creations of a common joint are uninvolved. It'll be new. I'll be glad what I'm doing. A senator by saying that I think she's going to be disappointed in this political game she's playing at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u19	President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance recently spoke to Visa about the reason that the government has suspended one of the major human rights issues, the crime of possession of drugs. The minister said two viewpoints conflict with the prejudicial criminal charges: It is, on the other hand, to stop punishing addicts because of addiction and to view them as health problems rather than the other side of the case is to relax the law so that there is really a big increase in the availability of drugs and thus create a trend that would be very undesirable. The minister also said, with president's permission: 'I would like to be very careful in saying that drugs are legal in Iceland. President. Young independence men recently mourned a decision. The Minister of Health to postpone this important matter, saying, by permission of the president: ▪ Drug abuse has long been lost. We need to look for ways to minimize the damage caused by drugs. Therefore, high doses of all drugs should be taken as soon as possible. Thus, young independence seems to understand what the issue is. Another excuse for continuing to punish people for their use of drugs is the financial minister. When Pirata's case of crime was canceled, including... of the highest. In 2020, a minister was held on behalf of his party that the party supported a crime threat, just not now. When a former health minister so presented a similar case as ours, it fell into a committee, and now we hear excuses in all directions as to why it is still to be held again and again, but all seem to agree that it is harmful and has failed. Once again, one of the most vulnerable groups in the country will be waiting for justice. Maybe later, maybe tomorrow, maybe someday in the fall, at least not now. My question to the highest. So a minister is simple, and the same one I asked the highest. Not long ago, the minister of wood: Is it not just best, is it not the most honest to stop this premise and simply admit that this government will never take criminal doses?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u20	A respectable president. This case is not in my custody. I had no access to the health minister's decision to take it from a Senate file. I want to pray. A senator is careful to draw general and large conclusions about my ideas on this subject based on a brief chat with a journalist who appears on the index. Hv. A senator, on the other hand, ran back and forth over two family issues, which were the legal causes of drugs and the delinquency, confused all of this, and said that if someone disagreed, then he must be against the other. I've never taken for it that a criminal debate can be reasonable, i.e. They aim to stop punishing people for their consumption of drugs, and they tend to agree that their health systems can be useful in coping with this problem. I've never been in that sort of trouble, and not even in the interview, not even during the interview, I did. In fact, in this regard we can recall that it was the health minister of the Independence Party that took the initiative to have these matters examined - wasn't it? - and bring out a report on that -- right? So the debate over criminal abuse has been prepared by the minister of the Independence Party and the case is still in the Ministry for further implementation, in fact, has set up here before the council without being released. I then feel that drugs are a major threat to society, and we are supposed to do all we can to control their spread, warn that people use drugs, and face the tragic tragedy of drug abuse for individuals and the community as a whole, the terrible social and economic cost of drugs. [[The president calls.]] So I take it very seriously, and I'm not gonna ask for it. A senator's apologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u21	A respectable president. Because of the highest. The minister then asked the Plerars, who brought the synopsis, which led to the highest order. A health minister of the Independence Party was assigned to get started on this job, just so we'll take care of it. It's nice to hear that. A minister is not opposed to criminal abuse, but the context of this report was that the question was being asked at the highest level. Minister on his stand on criminal charges, and it's just good to go. A minister corrected it here and now because he himself has certainly been criticized for having confused the terms of legalization and criminal abuse, which is a completely different matter. V.E.G. One minister speaks of not taking too seriously what he says to some mediaman about whether or not we are standing to take offense. All right. Has the highest. With more excuses, such as always surface when this case is finally close to coming to release, does the secretary of finance assure you that the case will not be postponed in the process? [[The president calls.]] That's when the beauty begins that it just needs to do it a little later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u22	A respectable president. I just can't follow up on it, even though the Twitter community is going next to a lot of publicity in the media or whatnot. So a senator is drawing general conclusions on my political opinion on this matter. I'm just not going to give myself or anyone else a chance of chasing things like that. What I'm simply pointing out is that I have nowhere in my interviews said that the way I try to use the medical system is unwise, or that I oppose it. But, of course, this is all in the process. When we discuss drugs in Icelandic society, I feel that discussing how serious a problem exists in the community is only an urgent part of the discussion. In this regard, we are to discuss drugs, import drugs, manufacture drugs, and what we are going to do to combat all of these in order to protect young people, in order to protect young people, young people, families, and others who are being seriously damaged by drugs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u23	A respectable president. On the board's page, the Council says: The Social Security Protocol is a public pension system with the obligation of all citizens and is a uniting insurance, income balance and social security of bio-employees their primary objective. I'll allow you to state that the government is not comfortable with those words. The fact is, those who have to rely on the social security system live in poverty. This has often been discussed, and the government's answers have usually been centered on an overall review of the social security system. No one, however, knows when the review will be made, let alone when it should be completed. Yet, there are people who are known for a knife and ride without the concern of the government. I remind you that the arrival of Covid had already made promises to the social security system, but the financial program we saw last night is only 430 million. K. every year over a four-year period as addition to social security. It should be noted that in order to ensure legal increases in the quality of our social security bills, the cost of inflation was higher than that at this time, which is now 6.7%. So I'm going to ask the secretary of finance where is the funding for the improvement of the social security system?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u24	A respectable president. I'll take it this way. A senator believes that there are no improvements to the social security system without putting more dollars into the system, that it is otherwise just as best it can be. I'm not ready to agree with that. I think there are things you can do, e.g. By making changes in the reform rules that could help people to self - help, they can be successful without any financial cost that would eventually come to them. We have been working toward such changes in recent years. Where is all the money that is needed in order to do better in this legal group? questions are asked. I'm here with you in front of the financial program. It's pretty simple, isn't it? In the case of the elderly, 104 billion are spent each year, 104 billion. And that's all the fees. If we're looking at the originals, it's kind of 10 percent. We'll take 10% of everything we have in place to try to do well there. This is despite the fact that we have a pension insurance system in Iceland that is actually the first support before the insurance system is tested. We have a pension system that compares with all other countries. I would like to argue that the generations that preceded us had a good future, and we have made good use of the resources of the Kingdom to be with those who need it. Would it be good to do better? Yes, it would be nice to be able to do even better, but in the end, it is always that you feel as if there are more crowns in the box. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But here's a group of paintings that we clearly have set our priorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u25	A respectable president. Yeah, we're gonna need more nickels on the system, so nothing's gonna get out of the way. V.E.G. Ministers talk like people who need to rely on the social security system have a choice. There's no choice. It is only sick or old or whatever the situation is; it is desperate, elderly. The fact that people have a knife and a spoon in Iceland today is just not acceptable. I'm just asking, "Where is the funding needed to bridge the gap until these solutions have been found, or are you going to make the most of it and then to reevaluate it? What are these people supposed to do in the meantime? This multi-named and multimedia review of the social security system has begun to sound like a convenient excuse for the government to do nothing. All I'm really worried about is that when a recent review of the council, new funding will not be expected to wipe out the decades of accumulated plusteur's social security on remuneration. We've got 2 billion investors down here. [[The president calls.]] But no, we don't have any more money than this in the social security system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u26	A respectable president. I am the opinion, as I previously explained, that changes in the system can be made and that there is to make changes, as shown in the program, that can look toward an increased level of fairness and justice in the implementation of the system, which, for example, will open up the possibility of more people to save themselves if they have the ability to perform. This may mean that we need to move something to the system and reach out more and more to those who have no such capacity. There is no way to argue that a group of paintings, which a few years ago, had some 40 billion total donations on the budget, and now we are heading for 110 billion, have not been in first place, that we have not had the ambition to do better. We have been making large contributions to this seminary, which is well seen in the growth of the financial resources of the ransom from time to time. But it's always the same story when we talk about the financial funds, there's always one voice here at the council, and it's like, "There's more to spend. "
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u27	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the opportunity to discuss here in particular the media environment at the highest level. Minister of the seminary, Lilja Alfreðsdóttir, and another what. Senators. The importance of the independent media for healthy democracies is clear to all of us. A year ago, the United Nations and UNESCO held the international day of freedom for their theme public quality. That's a good approach. It hides public quality in free, professional and strong media. At the same time as the fourth cause, e.g. Governments are important to the maintenance of human rights, democracy, and sustainable development. The fact is that freedom of the media is rampant in many parts of the world. The press's list without a border on the media freedom shows that freedom is impaired in 73% of the 180 countries and areas of the country that this assessment takes place. It simply means access to public and journalists to the fact that information is impaired and studyalism has been very limited. Here, like many Western countries, the form of communication has been most important to the environment of the unique media. With the Internet arriving 30 years ago or so, the basis for the early subscriptions fell, and international giants have covered much of the advertising market. The situation is also that the national media in this country, VOLV, is in a position of superiority, driven by public funds, and made a lot of money by advertising. I believe that a professional, national, state-bound news medium is necessary, but the rules of rules must not be so that other international media are subject to difficulty automatically. Therefore, Mr. President, my first focus here is a competitive position in the Icelandic media market and the actions of the government. In my opinion it is necessary to discuss here concomitantly with the media private, foreign media taxation, foreign media status, and the commercial status of ROV; to heal the wound we all see in the Icelandic media market rather than to succumb to the temptation to plaster it. Threads involving the media market - and they are various because it is a hobby of a lot of people here - are generally presented regardless of the overall picture, and the result is a butt - sassy environment. I've missed the government discussing this whole picture. Supportal measures for the private media approved during the last term have been criticized, including because they included more support for the bigger media, regardless of where the need is most supportive. Public interest in the media market is still healthy. It even hides. in particular, the balance between large and small media, between domestic and foreign media, and between individual mediums and the Kingdom broadcasts. That is why we need to talk and approach this whole thing. The maximum improvement. A minister has spoken in this regard has not been outlined sufficiently. In fact, we will see what the true vision of the government is in the Icelandic media environment, both our state - driven medium and our private media - and the interaction of these factors. Mr. President. I mentioned the past freedom of the press. In this country, we are faced with a steady drop in the list of media freedoms over the last few years. The rest of the North are at the top four. Iceland's in 15. There, there the communication between the media and the dominant political elements is increasing at one time. Therefore, in this discussion, my second focus is the media issue with their independence and freedom. The fact is that the media play a key role in information delivery to the public and in providing administration to governments at any given time. It is difficult to see that their independence is impaired because it lacks a complete view of their environment and that the dominant political element can with one point of pen each time determine their fate. The media do not provide exclusive support to governments, they also play a role in other prominent members of the community. My third point in the discussion, therefore, is the influence of the environment in the media on their ability to play an important role. In the past two years, we have seen this clearly as to how the media can be affected by a discussion of the fractions of powerful forces. The independent media is a key factor in their ability to inform the public and need not fear for the consequences of their important role. We're in dangerous territory in this regard. The red flags are seen in many places, and this requires a clear position by the government that the media's independence is more than just a goal. [[The president calls.]] The press needs to be protected for the public in Iceland. Mr. President. I can't wait to hear a minister's perspective as well. Senators in the discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u28	A respectable president. It is clear that the government places great importance on the fact that there are powerful media in Iceland. Thus, one reason why we did a great deal of good in the independence campaign in the last century was that the media in Iceland was very good. We had Isafold, and we had many magazines that laid the foundation of the sovereignty that I believe is very important to keep. I think one of the reasons why it went well is that we had, and are still, that I think, the powerful media in Iceland. We had powerful poets, media, etc. which led to a very intense discussion of politics and progress in Iceland. Today, some other age, i.e. that the media environment has been transformed by the technological advances that have taken place, not just in Iceland, but around the world. Material and free access to the media have changed everything. I believe it is extremely important that we continue to promote the work environment of the individual media. We need a powerful government radio, but we need, too, and it's necessary, to have a powerful private press. Let me just mention the statistics we have. We see to it that the advertising revenues of the Icelandic media fell by 17%, calculated by solid prices, between 2018 and 2021. Of course, it's a completely different environment, and it's serious. I agree with what. A senator's concern about the importance of the media is that they are powerful because they provide governments, not just the government, but the government, the business, and everything that matters to us. They are also important in the development of the language. It is essential that young people have access to powerful news on current issues, and I believe, a respectable president, very important that children have newspapers in front of themselves every morning and consider current issues to improve their vocabulary and be able to participate in democratic discussions. There, the media plays a very important role. The reason why I mentioned that the media was important and that it was important to me when we were working on the establishment of a sovereignty, first of our home government, then sovereignty and independence, is that the media tradition we have adopted comes from Copenhagen. That was where our spirit men were learning, and the pattern is from there. I can also inform the council that we are looking back in that direction because it affects the media that interests me best there. Let me give you a few things to prove it. First, Danir has a powerful national radio, but they are reevaluating that environment, and their national radio is not in a commercial market. It's been highly criticized that I've claimed that I don't think it's desirable for the state radio to be on a commercial market. But one reason is that I search Dana's carpenter for it. Second, Danir has a better tax environment that I think we should introduce and talk to in her last term. I wish I had gotten more people with me then because we've lost an important time of not introducing it. Third, they have support for their private media, just as we entered this last term and should have done much earlier. I'm sorry that the discussion went to political holes because it is so important to be with the powerful media.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u29	A respectable president. I thank you for this important discussion, and I can share in many of the issues presented in both issues. A senator and a chief. Minister. Actually, I didn't quite understand the discussion. Ministers for the state struggles and the media and Isafold. Isafold was a natural compromise of choice, let's be absolutely clear, and took a very decisive stand against the home administration and Hannes Hafstein.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u30	Because we preferred sovereignty.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u31	[[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Yeah, yeah, we can talk about it sometime later. Whether they were on the right side of the story or if they were local managers on the right side of the story. But that's enough. Media work dropped from 2,238 by the end of 2013 to 876 in 2020. That's what Haguess say. That's a hell of a lot of striking numbers. I didn't really believe it when I first saw it. These are the figures that actually describe the complete degradation of one of the basic democracies and informed discussion in Iceland, and I think the highest. The minister of culture came to realize just how serious this is, the importance of improving the media environment, as she went on here, and it's nice to look to Denmark in that regard. The problem, however, is that it's the highest. A minister is a member of the administrative team and a group of people who have so strongly opposed the development of a reasonable system for personal media efforts. That's just the way it is. We saw this growth in the last terms, and when it finally came through here at the General Assembly to accept reimbursed pay for the media's annual budget, a large proportion of the sponsors have been made to include the three largest private media services in Iceland, including the U.S.A. to the media, which is run by massive losses but is absorbed by special interests and the use of chapters very severely in the interests of financial groups in the community. [[The president calls.]] And what's the situation now? Yes, the funding system expires this year, and with the media, there is absolute uncertainty about the rest. [[The president calls.]] There's no way to see it. I don't think it's easy to find this in a financial program, no konskot. The government has to do much better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u32	Mr. President. I'd like to step aside just a little bit from the media, which are naturally of great importance in our society, as we all know. As noted, the media in recent years face a major crisis in many countries because of bitter competition and widespread changes in the media. I think it's nice to look into the northern countries, we often compare ourselves with them. There, the general policy is, in most places, to keep public radio stations out of the public market competition in a commercial market at the same time as they compete with private drivers and listeners. That's the way it is, for example. Norwegian national radio almost completely without advertising and other stations, such as TV2, compete with the state station in the public market rather than with the advertising market. The situation at the Norwegian press market is a dark picture, I was just studying it. A few years ago, there was a committee that even spoke. that the individual business model cannot guarantee sufficient income and less income and a large cut-off in the newsrooms and editors will prevent the managers from having the resources needed to return to the public the real diversity of media products. This same press committee in Norway believes that there is a great danger that the press conference needed for public discussion can disappear directly before a sustainable management model has been found for the media. So it is imperative that we find ways that are best suited for these activities as soon as possible, and I know the highest. Secretary of education is very interested in that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u33	A respectable president. Thank you for taking this important matter to the council Hall. With regard to the national media environment - before, the party press and we are coming from that environment today. Today, Iceland's consumers have several major news media of the country, e.g. The morning paper, it's the quota owners. I wonder why. Yes, I believe that's to ensure the advancement of the existing quota system. That's the main goal. It is not necessarily to inform the nation and to be so good at Icelandic society, to strengthen the Morning paper year after year there is no such thing. The same applies to another person who leaves the magazine because of EU Member States. The reference here is to Norway and Denmark. I have lived in Norway myself, and I believe that the Icelandic media environment is in no way comparable, and we are not necessarily to look for role models there. It's just a completely different culture, a totally different value in the Norwegian media than in Iceland. I believe the big case here in Iceland is RUV. It impairs the competitiveness of the Icelandic media and thus impairs the freedom of expression. We are in an environment today, a technology environment, where people can establish their own media. In earlier centuries, Einar Benediktsson and Jón Sigurðsson founded their own media in magazines or in magazine editions. Then people can build their own media today, and the government's strengthening of private media today is not meant to be tolerated. It reduces competitiveness, makes it more difficult for others to come into the market and is actually subsidies. What is to be considered is the tax system, the tax system of the media, and it is to try to reduce or eliminate taxes from this operation so that it becomes as much freedom as it should be. In the media, it's a good thing to do research and so forth. [[The president calls.]] But it's also a maintenance role in free partnerships, and I've been chairman of a company called the Orc, and for that organization I wrote charges to the media committee and requested that the State Radio be charged with the conduct of the third energy package. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Talking about a neutral state radio is just wrong, wrong from a to another. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u34	Mr. President. Thank you for the advisor and what. A senator for this discussion and as much as anyone. Minister for her entrance here. Free media are important for democracies in the community, but it is of course important that information about both management, policy and media is transparent and clear, so we know who is behind the media. REVIEW plays a vital role in behalf of the people. However, I would like to use the few minutes I have here to discuss only the local media, where in so many societies in the country, it is the small local media, called Daily and other, which are so important for all coverage in localities; may not get space in general discussion but may be able to divide the population of each area into capital. It has often leaned on the national media. These include services that often care for other tasks, things that are outside the capital, culture, employment, and other things that do not reach the front of the big tickets. So I wanted to use my time to encourage us to support our little local media.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u35	Madam President. In lands where democracy, transparency, and freedom of expression do not have the right protection, journalists and other media often experience much persecution. In the worst of cases, people who are in the business of informing the public about their status and affairs in society are simply afraid of their lives and have reason to do so. But such persecution is not always as obvious as it is in direct physical violence. Political prisoners are rarely imprisoned for their views, according to a review. Visions are directed to something else; they are accused and even imprisoned for behavior they may have, or may have done, but are in no way consistent with the definition of the punishment. The charges against them are outright false, and of course the government claims that they have nothing to do with their work. Recently, several journalists were announced in a report in this country based on an investigation of alleged offenses against privacy. The issue is rooted in the media coverage of the so - called U.S. government department, but the news that these journalists delivered was derived from data that sheds light on how controversial journalists had been espised and attacked. However, instead of investigating them, organized attacks and persecution were announced by the local journalists to report an offense that is not known to have been committed or of whom and all of that, they claimed that it had nothing to do with their work. This, of course, is something that we need to take very seriously and consider very seriously. [[The president calls.]] There's something else I'd like to mention in this discussion that we're in here on the platform of the media. [[The president calls.]] There is considerable evidence that money - rich people are taking unfounded lawsuits against the media, a case known in advance to be lost but cause the lives of the media. [[The president calls.]] It is a ongoing problem that threatens freedom of the media in this country. This is something we need to take very seriously and is an important point in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u36	I don't know. Senators during a speech session, which is evenly divided between members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u37	Madam President. Here we will discuss one of many major and urgent matters that the government brings ahead of itself without handling the situation according to its motive. Here comes the highest. A minister who explains that it would be good if there were any policy in these matters, it is important to deal with these issues that concern the media and their problems. Why, though, has the policy not arrived, and why has it not been introduced after this government has been in more than a whole term? That is because the government does not agree on what to do, rather than on so many other factors. No doubt, their assessment of the last terms, the latter part of the matter, was covered by special reinforcements, which were clearly stated only for a period of time. Hv. Many members of the Independence Party emphasized that this was a temporary arrangement. Now I feel that this temporary arrangement will not go on like many other forms of communication, no matter what. The members of the Independence Party, for it is at least more likely than the fact that there is a real policy and some change in the media work environment in Iceland, especially in the view that it has failed entirely on the part of this government to view what may be the biggest issues - not only the biggest issues in the media market, the state of the TV, and the competitive position of the other media to it. It may be possible to make some changes in its operation, but there is no policy. You see, this government is aimless in all great and difficult matters, especially political matters, since it is not a political government. It's a system administration that, at best, will continue to take care of media issues, such as in so many other areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u38	Madam President. The media operates in one united market. Special support for the private media, the taxation of foreign sources, and the state radio status on the commercial market all affects the overall results and the competitive environment. The change in one factor affects others and therefore a complete review is required. It's a convolutation motion. paritaprevir The already existing son of Sigmar Guðmundsson is about this, and behind him is the entire assembly of Oscoast. It is important to answer questions, such as how a commercial market would affect the progress of Kingdom News, how it would affect, for example, the situation. to support state funds for media and cultural work Supportal measures to the private media approved during the last term have been criticized. They've been criticized, including. because they include more support for the media than smaller and regardless of where the need is most supportive. This, of course, raises questions about independence from the media. In recent years, Iceland has been on the magazine list without the media freedoms of bordering the press without the appearance of a state of consciousness. Other Norwegian countries, on the other hand, take the top four positions. Iceland has fallen from 8 to 15. This is a thought - provoking point. It is a matter of public interest that the media are strong, careful, and healthy, that the balance between local and foreign sources and between individual mediums and the State Radio, which plays a fundamental role. They need to answer how international taxation and social services should be used in line with national tax laws. Suggested what? paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson goes on to see this entire food I mentioned and that the price of a Minister's proposal will be submitted. [[The president calls.]] You see here more than just making statements is needed. [[The president calls.]] It needs a course, and we need action.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u39	A respectable president. The competition for the Icelandic media market is hard. Private media have repeatedly pointed out the struggle to compete with a government medium, i.e. The national radio. ROV runs a television station and radio stations available to all along as well as a commercial market. That mixture certainly leads to the first appearance of those who want to advertise. Free media is an important democratic discussion. It provides government, employment, and society's principal institutions with needed support. However, they may find it difficult to find competitive ground for business with the giant VOLV, but the advertising market also looks to foreign groups such as Instangram and Facebook to a greater extent than ever. During the last term, the government legalized the unique media into a negative model to balance the competitiveness of the changing environment. It has been shown that funding has been a factor in keeping personal teams competitive. They have prevented desertion in the sector and have even increased the status of journalists and journalists. It is important, though, to take up the discussion of the current Kingdom Hall position. What do you think RUSB has to do with advertising? Is there a need for two public radio stations, i.e. Channel 1 and Channel 2? It is obvious that for the sake of the State Fund and the media class, a better setting can be made. Putting down Channel 2 may be of benefit to you. Many private radio stations are operating today, and VOLV only needs one radio station to carry out its duties and be in place if necessary. Finally, I'd like to encourage the highest. The minister of culture and trade continues to impress their excellent work in ensuring the competitiveness of the independent media.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u40	A respectable president. Democracy generally assumes that the media should be independent, independent, independent, free, free, and free, media freedom is a major issue of democracy and human rights, and without media freedom the civil rights of individuals would be of little value. Sometimes it is said that the media always take on the form of the social and political environment in which they operate. You can see that the media is at all times controlled by media media media, whether it is in the private market or by state - power media. The question is, How great is that government, and who are in control? In a discussion about free media in Iceland, it seems to me that only the definition of media freedom is being viewed in a negative way, i.e. Freedom from yokes and bans, not from positive freedom, i.e. Freedom to someone who can even. includes duty to action. In the present environment of this country, the main objective of the media is to create low-cost products for good contact guards, which can contribute to the production of soft news, sometimes presented in smoldering and superficial ways. It is difficult to see how such news and news items can serve the need for information in a democracies community. In times where public contacts, publicity agents, counselors, assistants, market managers, and other shorthands are even more urgent than the active journalists, it is even more urgent to secure the media environment. We need to create a permanent frame of view that there is a news system in this country that deals with the truth, not that those who have the authority see to it that the news is news in a kind of truth that is appropriate for their interests, not for the common interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u41	A respectable president. Thank you for the important discussion we have here. I agree with much of what has been said and here I see certain convergence among members of the council, suggesting that the number of days of the current Kingdom News must now be reduced. It is consistent that it is important to reduce the activities of Our Kingdom News, thus creating a space for the free media in that area. There's got to be a lot of room there. It's a concern that Iceland will crash down the list of free media. In this pontata, I want to remind you that the media has the responsibility to sustain those who use political and economic power at any given time and this is done in public interest, i.e. The role of the media is not for the public to maintain in behalf of rulers. I believe, though I don't have much time here in this speech chair, that in the time of the crown virus, this relationship is going to blow. I worry that this is a propaganda campaign in the name of critical thinking that has, in many respects, undermined criticism when people are told what to believe and what not to believe and what to do, and it has been found that much of what has been said in the past two years is not true. I'm here to inform you that at a council meeting with the Independence Party earlier, I suggested that there be a plagiarismic proposal, which I'm offering to write, where I suggest that a minister be appointed by commission to cross what has gone wrong in the media and in the media and the media in the last two years where I believe there are certain weaknesses in the core of the republic. I believe the media, indeed, that the fourth power, can be counted as one of the most important basics. I look forward to having a chance to take care of this further.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u42	A respectable president. Regarding the situation in competitive media, I believe that the present system; by government grants and by possession of capitalists who maintain the unsuspecting media, the commercial model today of the Icelandic media. In Iceland users have very little to pay for the use of these news pages. Why is that? Yes, it is because of the government's grantings, and that is because Icelandic enthusiasts support the unsuspecting media. You don't have to go to Norway to see that it is the custom for people to subscribe to these pages. I only know one news medium today where it's paid for use, and that's the hour. I believe this model will come as soon as the intervention of the state and the involvement of the demons who maintain a particular propaganda ceases. Being with both the demons and the Kingdom power is by no means possible. This involves freedom of expression and access to the media. I, who was the Chairman of our Energy, found it so well in the third energy package. We wrote a report, worked hard on it, it was well over 100 pages, and it was totally ignored. The national radio, RUSH, appears to be one of the protectors of Iceland's EU Member States. If there's anything that's dangerous, then it's totally shut down and the interest groups that are fighting, like against the third energy package. I'm not saying it's the true truth that was said there, but we were totally shut down. My interest in that matter began with the harsh talk of people who were opposed to the third energy package. I read the proposal, wrote an article in the Morning Press, and then the ball started rolling with me. I probably wouldn't be here today if I hadn't been able to deal with it on one of my visits here before Easter how badly people who were against that third energy package were spoken of. And it was in the media. It had just come down into the strangest and other things. I just challenge you to google it; third energy package and a foreign spirit. We can see that in the way of one of the Internet services. I don't think the Icelandic government should come up with these matters unless it's tax-free. In addition, a radio and television network has to be secure all over the country. But freedom of expression is mainly to be increased in the land, and this does not strengthen the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u43	A respectable president. The social role of the media is very important in all aspects of life. In today's pursuit of attention, the importance of sound and reliable information is more than ever before. There, independent media play a key role, both of us here at the Council and direct our attention to the current issues. In Iceland, the environment of independent media has long been difficult, as most of us are aware. The market is not large, we are few, and over the last few decades, Web sites around the world have become accessible to the whole world. This covariate has also affected the media's income potential, since advertising is increasingly on the hands of international corporations, and it is important to tax them, just as it is important to tax them. As we have discussed, there was a period of legality in the media at the latest rate of recovery to their status. It is clear in my mind that the media in Iceland do not run without government support, and in my opinion, it is very important to support, notably, local media, which over time have been a stage for communication. According to the historian Dr. Hrafnkell Lárusson's study of the regional media in Eastern lands, the importance of democracy and that when the local media began to weaken in the last decade, it had already influenced local discussions about the lives of the smaller communities. To say that it is important that the distribution of support from a government fund be done on a professional basis to ensure the best distance between the government and the discussion, to ensure that all are under the eye of the media. It's the criticism independent of the subject, in favor of all of us. It is even more important that governments promote the work environment and the media through legislation, thus paying for their democratic role. That was, for example, improved information legislation and a change in the terms of bans and media coverage, the media, and the general public for benefits. That journey is not finished, and recent examples show how important it is for us to be on that watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u44	Madam President. Since the establishment of the current government work in 2017, the number of employees in the media has decreased by half. Hundreds of mediamen have given up on low wages and heavy pressures. Many of them have fled to the government's warm arms, which has established an army of espionages, many of whom view it as their sole purpose to enhance government activities and give information to the media. This is a dangerous development, Mr. President. In a healthy community, she'd be backwards. The media would increase at the same time that governments would stop defending more and more tax dollars in making news and positive coverage. This has not been the case in the reign of this government, on the contrary. Here in this hall, we have been discussing the media business for years. Committees have been appointed, reports have been produced, but little has been accomplished. At the same time, not only the business environment has deteriorated but also the job conditions and the safety of journalists have been undermined. There is a ban on the business of the modern prime minister, now the highest. Secretary of finance, the prefect of Iceland Bank, which the same minister sells these days. The discussion of the hour made it clear that by permission of the president, a minister of finance was not a professional businessman, but he led the Entetian trades, on the contrary, to what he has previously said before. This discussion definitely meant business to the general public, but the representatives of the Commission were offended. If governments really care about the media work environment, as could be heard from a sermon. Minister of this discussion, we should make the minimum requirement that the media can escape the free heads not only when it comes to lawmakers, the persecution of guerrilla departments, and reports, but rather that governments will reverse the trend that has occurred on the watch of the present government. Public information supply, you see, is on the basis of public, not public links. There the press plays a key role.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u45	Madam President. I'm just going to pick up the thread that had been left behind. paritaprevir Arnar Þór Jónsson and Eyjólfur's annual Ármannsson, for the week here is a case that cannot be overlooked if we are going to discuss the media market over Iceland's head. It's freedom of speech, freedom of expression in Iceland. Freedom of speech has been a major blow, not just in this country, but throughout the Western world. For example, the director of the most influential news editor in the world, Twitter, explained that this was a few days ago that the psychic was not going to defend his freedom of speech, that was a long time ago. He did not intend to defend the first change in the U.S. Constitution to ensure freedom of speech in that country. Rather, the purpose of the medium would be to direct the discussion in a certain direction. We see this increasingly with the superpower of the new community media and must state by the power of many conventional media as well, in order to form a government medium that has been inclined to tell a particular story rather than just tell news, to produce a certain Šnartrafistunes, as it is called. I'm glad this proposal comes out of nowhere. The members of the Independence Party - although we know that the government will not, of course, will not be doing it, but it will be interesting to have a discussion about it - but if the government is serious about dealing with the media's affairs and working environment in Iceland, it must be a means of trusting freedom of speech in this country that it is worth fighting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u46	Madam President. I appreciate your excellent discussions here, and it's clear that we agree that the situation is not good. We also agree on the manifestation of that bad situation, but then we may have a problem with the solution. It is very prominent here that people approach them this way from their own interests and interests, and perhaps there the dog lies buried, part of the problem that a minister is facing, putting together a complete picture, because there is a whole picture lacking, and it was very clear in the case of a minister here at the beginning. Now it's the dancing way to the highest. A minister has his eye on it, and it's quite nice, as I think it would be more exhilarating for the Icelandic media that we'd be more inclined to look into Icelandic markets, whatever it is that we're looking for and how we're going to lead. In terms of some of these dancing markets, which I know quite well, it's true that the dance radio isn't in a commercial market, but it's TV2, which is also a national TV, it's in a commercial market. taxation and the tax environment, it is absolutely certain that there is an improved tax environment, special emphasis on regional media, and a smaller one, something we really need and need is missing. There is also talk of support for the private media. Dans place tremendous emphasis on innovation, absolutely enormous, something that would also be good for them to see because this market is on the move. For a word at the highest. The minister that the discussion goes on to political shootings, and she missed not receiving support for the issues she presented during her final term, perhaps the point is that it is missing this holistic picture. I need to see that one matter - and again, I have a complete understanding of the situation. A minister presents a case, and members of a group present a case that is contrary to that. It's not quite simple. But we have to look at the big movie, and I'm sure I'm the way to support matters here at a council meeting is to give a comprehensive picture of the Icelandic media. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It may take a little more work than that, but I think that's the way to get a jump on this market.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u47	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for a very objective discussion and to see that the senators are ready to improve the media environment in Iceland. I think there are a lot of ideas that have come up today that are good. I'd like to go over a few. I'm not saying there should be another committee, as the Council council suggests. All of this is so far, and if the Council of Corrections were to review the documents on the homepage of the Ministry of Education and Culture, or the Ministry of Culture and Business, then all of this is so far, and there is no need to set up yet another special committee. We'll go on this and I can tell you what. A senator that starts working for financial and economic ministers to change this taxable environment and balance the situation. V.E.G. Economic and economic ministers and I've been through it, and we're going to report these results and, of course, we're going to have a comparative study of what that environment is like. Only because it's slow. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson gave up his sovereignty and began speaking about Valtesa - in fact, he did not mention National Þjóðólfur - the reason I mentioned home administration and vomiting, and more is that the tradition we have, that we have from Denmark. I have to say right now that there is one thing that really disappoints me, that is, in fact, the speaking of a council party reverend. He could not support the private media during his last session because he was once again in a political game, unable to support his claim.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u48	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the opportunity to discuss sales at the Bank of Iceland when there is much else for the council. 108 billion dollars, that's the value of the government's selling stock in Iceland to date. This is an estate given to the State budget, free of charge a few years ago. When we discuss the sale of property items in Iceland Bank, we do not allow a brief trace to the facts. In 2015, 95% of the stakeholder's share came into the state as a stabilisation from Glitnis. In 2016 the bank was estimated at 185 billion dollars. And was then in view of the bank's own money. A total of 57.5% of the value in the last two sales is 108 billion, and the remaining 37.5% of the stability project is now worth about 95 billion. In other words, the value of stability is about 203 billion, a property given free of charge, 203 billion, as well as the cost of the amount of 72 billion. Thus, the benefits of the stability of Iceland Bank now hold about 275 billion. The market value for 5% of the government's holdings at the bank, which was not part of the stability project, is about 12.7 billion more. The current share of government property, in view of the market today, is over 107 billion. This value of sales I've been going over here leaves the venture to subsidies and structure of the community, and it really makes less of it. The newly developed financial program explains how 100 billion higher financial debt can directly and indirectly lead to an increase of 8 billion interest costs per year to the future. If we allow ourselves to be able to sell the rest of the latter part, or that part, we would certainly be talking about more than 200 billion dollars. The lower debt that would result from this assessment will bring us 16 billion interest costs per year to the future. What a joy it is to have this discussion today! With two sales of the government at Iceland Bank, we have achieved great success for society, and the more important things, we have achieved all our major goals in sales; distributed holdings, distributed long-term investments, major participation in the public, retailing the stock market, the state has reduced its involvement in a competitive market, and received a good price for it. The first step was the last spring, with the largest original available in Iceland history. There the bank was the largest part of the country's community with 24,000 shareholders. Emphasis, as has always been, on distribution of holdings with special emphasis on giving the public the opportunity to participate by accepting subscriptions as far as 50,000. and subscriptions for a million were not impaired, and the general public was truly active. Government funds received a fair price for selling things, it is reasonable to compare the price of sale with the price of comparable banks with the amount of profit paid at the time of sales. Following registration, the value of the bank increased with increasing interest rates and commercial increases in markets and subsequent shares of the state funds. This is reflected in sales of the last week that was successful in all criteria. There were 22.5% items sold for 53 billion bucks, 22.5% items sold for similar amounts, and 35% items last summer. The marketing price was 117 k. on an item equivalent to about 123 k, taking into account the interest paid in the bank, which took place several days before the sale, but the pay was about 7.7 billion. Thus, the government's success was highest in spite of today's global uncertainty, including the situation. around and perhaps primarily because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The salad amounted to 304 days. This is important when considering the market days and weeks before. The extent of the sale was equivalent to what had been sold more than 300 days before combined. When we consider the terms of an invitation, what a powerful effect this has on us! This high roll of sales is an average of eight times that of similar markets in Europe. It has usually been sold for 39 days. The funeral was 4.1% lower than the last day of business. Despite this tremendous amount, the price was only 4.1% lower than the final price of the last business day. In comparison, Europe's average deviation has been 6.4%, and if we look only at the time since the invasion in Ukraine, the SD has been 8.7% lower than our last business success. Here we can also remember that the highest date - stopping rate from an initial discharge was taking into account money. We can also look at the sale of Buy Congress on Things in Arion Bank with the same arrangement in April 2018, where 10% of the bank was sold at the end of the sale by 8.1% less than the final price. All of this shows that there is undeniably good reason to commend the government's bank office for good results. As we know, the Bank Office is appointed to administer the sales process in accordance with the laws set up in the period of the left government, which served since 2009 in 2004.2013. The law even says so. that the Bank Management Board should focus on the restoration and construction of a powerful domestic financial market and contribute to an active and natural competition on that market. For the actual sale therapy, there are laws accepted here at the General Assembly in 2012. To them there was a word. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, then a minister of finance. In the 3rd. The law says, with permission from the President: When making a decision on the preparation and implementation of the sale site, the open sale procedure, transparency, objective and practicality should be emphasised. Practically, the highest price or market price for property is applied. Care should be taken to ensure that conditions offered are reasonable and equal. In that case, sales should strive to promote active and natural competition for financial markets. It can be said that all these goals have been achieved. After a successful, open general invitation last summer, the Bank Office felt that the best results would be obtained from this step by using a so - called proposition. Generally, it is considered the simplest, most common and most reliable way to sell a large possession item into a registered market company without having too much impact on market prices, i.e. to obtain at the highest price and to minimise the risk of external effects on the process. But during the first days of February, I agreed to the Banqué's proposal for further property sales. This was published by a press release, a paper, and a link to it sent to a financial and economic and business committee, requesting a statement. Also requested the comments of the Council Bank in accordance with the regulations of the law. Finally, on March 18, the decision was made to continue sales therapy, in fact, after positive comments made by members of the Parliament and the Council Bank. This was published, my letter to the State Bank, the Ministry's Report, and the reviews of both the Council Committee and the Federal Bank. The banking board began its preparation on Monday, March 21, on the basis of the Agency's adviser. First, demand information was obtained, including cutoffs and possible quantities. It was then decided that after the completion of the market on Tuesday, March 22, the invitation was completed prior to the opening of Wednesday 23rd, with 209 qualified investors buying 22.5% shares in the bank by the State for nearly 53 billion dollars. ... asI usedto say. As we can see on an updated list of the largest stockholders, there's the largest pension fund after the Icelandic government, as in the past, along with the Capitol Group U.S. government. According to state Bank County, Iceland Bank is now taking together a list of shareholders at the bank before and after the last sale that will be available to all shareholders. There the list of shareholders as represented for the sale can be compared as it stands for the sale now. Then there's a detailed bank hearing for the sale to be presented to the Minister's Committee for State, and I expect the meeting to be held tomorrow. I have also sent a letter to the Bank Office to get a final list of the distribution of the Bank County. In the light of all the points of the situation, I have the expectations that all of these data will be made public unless the law prevents it. A respectable president. Good results in sales, now and last summer, did not work out by chance. The preparation of the entire case has been extensive. By the end of 2018, a team of workers returned a White Paper on ownership of the banking system. The results, including the results, came to be true. that there was reason to reduce the State's high holding on business banks. This would reduce the State's risk and the cost of sacrifice by tying so much money to banking, and a healthy competitive environment would thus be involved. Similarly, plans for sale are shown in the government contract and the government policy for financial companies. Today, we are closer to reaching these goals, and the context of this recent sale is undeniably important. We remember how the state was in a position far stronger than the demands of fallen banks in 2008, just because the banks were not owned by the State. Then it could be said that we were not going to make the problem of the whole nation by taking over the commitments it had taken on the shoulders of private banks and could not keep. This was exactly because the banks did not belong to the State. A key operation in the restoration of the banking system was not to make the creditors' debts, but to leave the risks where they lived. Although we now live in a much different, more stable rule and control environment, for the financial breakdown, we must not forget that banking may be risky in nature and may simply be more flexible. This is especially true today, since competition continues to increase with technological development and the development of financing companies. It is my opinion that the state fund is not at all the right person to lead more of the business system through such a trend. If failure is successful, the damage to the public can result from hundreds of billions of public funds being committed to banking, as was the case here, when the State had the bank completely and has a vast ownership share, 98%, at the Lands Bank. For good reason, none of our neighbors are willing to contribute as much tax money to their business as we have been doing. In fact, if you still look elsewhere, it's just hard to find such a kingdom in the world. We have to keep in mind that even after we complete the plans to sell Iceland banks to the full, they will still be quite a factor in international comparison. Therefore, it is interesting to observe the language of those here who have been leading the last few days. Those who feel the decrease in government spending all the time are very busy finding ways to criticize this point of sale. It is best to remember the language of the management authorities and the various experts around the original bid. It was said that the hall was an unbecoming situation, leaving that the bank should be handed over to the chosen ones and that new owners would work hard with the bank's debtors. Who can't remember that reasoning? This was a bad case because new owners would bring down all the businessmen. What has been the result of these teachings? Nothing. None of this worked. I have to say, it is similar with the pleas of those who want us to take these valuable Kingdom interests that live in a competitive market and create some new phenomenon that has often gone under the word "social bank. " The most important thing to me in this discussion is that often in times, they are the same as most likely to have spoken to social banks who want to see every billion that could be squeezed out of the sale now turn in the box and count everything else completely different and unfashionable. But the community bank concept may be the most likely idea to minimize the value of these assets in the hands of the State. In this discussion, there have been times when profits - whether profit or not - have become secondary because humans have other and bigger ideas in front of them. It is easy to see how it would gradually lead to the lack of time for this valuable property or even to a mere burden on a government fund, as we were able to make out of the apartment loans that did nothing but to lend on the first mortgage of nonstop housing and had the state guarantee, just to lend a mortgage on a well - afforded budget. It was all that was to be done, and he was always to take the first mortgage. Now the hook of those business ideas is at an enormous angle, somewhere ranging from 200 to 300 billion. I don't know if it's wise to start predicting how the community thought would go. I'm just hoping it won't come true because of the bank we're holding now, I think we're on the right track getting these banks worth the state, paying off debts, creating a natural competitive environment in Iceland in a financial market. Those who wish to fight to establish a community bank can only make that suggestion without demeaning those assets. It is of utmost importance to remind you that the Kingdom does not have to do all things. There must be a warning against the language of those who say that the State alone can have and expel all creations. I say that on such a stand there is a statement that the people in the community are simply unable to handle business, property, and financial resources, at least Not as well as the government. And in the end it means nothing more than the politicians themselves, those who speak for it, want to trust themselves better than other people in order to do most of the more important things. But fortunately, the firm for this sale, this government plan, is clear. Although the State has an important role in many areas, it is much better for governments to focus on setting the rules on the financial market and then granting the economy the freedom to make decisions about business, risk, and the provision of property within the boundaries set by the law. We've been tightening that frame very hard. We have been told that large increases in bank requirements and many other rules could be drawn here to provide shelter for depositors, normal families, and businesses in their dealings with the financial system and to set financial boundaries about decisions they can make. I'll mention, for example, the investment of banks for my own account. A united, dignified president, we are at a critical time. We've completed another phase of Iceland's bank sale. It's a real joy. This has turned out to be a total of 108 billion and the remaining 100 billion property. If we look at the bank taking over free of charge and we've gained over 70 billion in profits, surely Iceland has proved to be enormously valuable and well supported by the plans now being made in a new government. We will continue to contribute to a healthy environment in financial markets, competition, and healthy holding of possessions, especially. There's a lot to do. [[The president calls.]] We want to finish Iceland's bank sales by the end of the next year because the bank's sale is crucial to the context of the government's budget over the years, including the interest load and future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u49	Madam President. Thank you very much. Economic and financial ministers for your history. Because there has been much discussion about the success that the government decides to sell on them, I would like to start by asking the highest level of questions. Each minister's best assessment of the prices of the items sold in both the original and the present days was made by the bank attorneys. In other words, what did the advisers think was likely price could be paid for any item, whether it was the entire price or the whole item? What did they think was likely? Now it is often the case when companies go to markets, watching the funerals and then going where they're going at the end of the day, that's one of the criteria for the success of the invitation. It is always said that counseling is good if these two are close to each other. So I wanted to know if it's the highest. A minister could tell us what they said about the price.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u50	A respectable president. Now, we're discussing the original and the recent invitations, and if we just start with the original invitation, of course, the bank's being recorded with enormous uncertainty. In fact, some thought that we were crazy to test the bank's registration at the time because of general pessimism, but we referred to the market as rather viable, and it seemed that there was a reasonable demand here. But it took months to feel the potential interest in sharing in a general campaign. As you can recall, a way of obtaining a measure of condensation, cornerstone investments, as it was then mentioned, was beginning with the case. In terms of prices, our counseling was on the first list of missions with a car that was the object of how banks were evaluated at that time in other countries, provided that we were here to register for the first time and that we needed to be, well, let us tell some sort of yellow root for the participation, or else people could just go and find another registered bank and buy some stock in it. In other words, it means that there would have to be some kind of motivation for participation, which would include. is shown by guard. If we look at the last frame that the advisers talked about before the premiere, then the price of the bidders at the auction will be higher than the end of that frame. In this campaign, which has just been made up of qualified investors, I received suggestions from the Bank Office based on the advice that came from more than one adviser, and it really doesn't matter here, it's being sought to find the prices that ensure that the amount of money we want to sell the ratio at a price that will not be determined. Eventually, the price was 117.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u51	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for. I thought, though, that I could not find the answer to the prices in the original text, but I expected that there might be something that is at the highest level. A minister can come along. My second question is on top of that. The minister said the invitation was successful on every scale, so I'm asking the highest. Minister: What were these standards, and how did they come out? I expect one of the testimonials to have been successful in making the sale cost acceptable. There has been strong criticism that the cost was very high last time, so I would like to ask, What was the cost of the sales process at this time?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u52	A respectable president. When this tender invitation was prepared, the Bank Office had observed that there would be some discount of the last registered price. Well, that's what it used to be. I'm not going to deny that there is one reason why I was concerned about the implementation of the invitation that this discount would be in the upper limit of the figure mentioned, or near the routine, elsewhere. But that was quite far from it. These goals we are looking for include Legally, as is the case, for example to find in Article 3. the law on the sale of the property of the state. Emphasis should be placed on open sales processes, transparency, objective and practicality, with the highest prices or market prices being sought. I feel that these goals have been achieved very well. As far as I can see, we've been able to draw an enormous interest in both the trade and the conclusion, if we just look at the stockholder file, that we have a long-term investor and a wide-spangled possession.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u53	A respectable president. My question to the highest. A financial minister is rather simple: What were the reasons for allowing a group of small investors to enter such an offer? The idea behind an offer is rather simple, i.e. that it is justified to give a discount from the market value because you get large parties who buy large bits, take a high market risk that letters may become available and sit behind them with black coats. Now it comes through an inside list that they got to buy 55 million people. K. Twenty-seven million. K. It's 11 million. K. An object. These people could easily have bought in the market. These are not large, vast long-term investments that were taking on great market risks. What's the point of letting this kind of people get a discount? Will these people, these little parties that float on the side like this, on this list that is going to be published, or is this just this classic list that goes over those that have the biggest things?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u54	A respectable president. For the sake of finance, it was emphasized that there were general rules in this export procedure, which would mean that there were a wide range of rules. that to make investors, to tell pension funds, or to the events of other people's professional investors, we all need to walk. Right away. A senator asks: "With what reasoning were small investors allowed? they were not allowed to do so in themselves. But that's how I deal with it. A senator is asking why the participation was not placed at some minimum. It might have been imagined that there would have to be a minimum of 100 million, 200 million, 500 million. I didn't feel it was prominent in the reviews from this council, but it would have certainly moved out, we should allow ourselves to tell less prophets, saying that no one will be allowed to participate unless he has a certain dimension. But then we need to keep in mind that in the first round when we went into the general supply, such investors were almost entirely cut down. There was absolutely no emphasis on having them among the shareholders. Those who were top priority were the public, who were not cut down if the offer was up to 1 million. They got the full distribution then. I previously mentioned the cornerstone investments, which were particularly attracted to the general invitation by coming in first and making sure that this could be effective. Then there was the distribution of the general export, rather, endeavoring to ensure distribution to those who were somehow trapped. So you might ask yourself, " Why would it have been such a minimum interest in this occasion because then we would have said to the general investors, domestics, or abroad who wanted to invest for one of these types of money both: You are undesirable? [[The president calls.]] I don't know if there was a reason to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u55	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for these explanations, but I want to reiterate my question about whether these members, these names, will also appear on the list we receive, i.e. that we may see all the parties invited to purchase in this process. It is not good for a career to be beneficial and to be above all criticism that gossip, rumors, information that some have received a telephone call from their stockbrokers and others have not. The idea behind such market prices - in the general auction of the day, the bank was not on the market - is that there are good reasons for this. I can't see, when there was so much extra demand in large companies that they wanted in, they should have let so little investors in. Can we see those names? Will they be on this list, and when will it arrive?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u56	A respectable president. I think it's like I traced it here; there's some way you can have some opinion about whether it might have served our better purpose to have some minimal involvement. I'm not going to say it is. But I agree with what. A senator when she says that there may be some who have been so lucky that while others may not have been in that group, they may have been identified by others. But the whole process cannot be held, that is, that it was not open and clear, because we've been discussing it here at the council, we've made our public plans in this matter, and the Bank Board had done likewise when it acted. As for the release, I've been tracking that Iceland Bank will make the whole list of shareholders as it was for the tender sale and as it looks after the tender auction, so it should be possible to see it. I have also called, but I have not yet received the decision of the distribution, and will make it more accessible and will do so, unless there are any laws imposed on me to do what I hope to do, and do not believe to be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u57	A respectable president. I would like to emphasize that the Reunion has supported the government's sale in the centre of Iceland Bank. It's our policy that the state should not have a bank operation unless it has a solid foundation in one bank. It's our policy in the Offense. Instead, it's how we go to the sale in Iceland Bank and the previous item we've already sold. We have supported this process, and what we have stressed is that property will be distributed, that will become stable owners, and that it will natural that the state will be obligated to all the initiatives involved in the sale. Like the wording of a minister before that. paritaprevir When it comes to smaller investors in this process, Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter shows that she is suspicious. I would like to interpret the words of the minister so that there may be a little better in this, that they may do all they can to keep things straight and who was eventually bought. I think that also matters because we want to continue, and we in Recession would like to continue to support a minister in selling property in banks. But the key is that it is done, so that not only we in this room believe and trust that the public is confident that the process is good, transparent, and enlightened. Now that there are certain financial resources involved, we have a financial agenda that concerns us, especially on the debt of the state. My question is, isn't it quite clear that we're going to use this money for Iceland Bank to pay off debts in the main part of our debt and in a more targeted and clearer investment? My fears and ours in action are that this will take over the government institutions instead of paying off debts and going to a specific and targeted infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u58	A respectable president. It is very clear to me that we could not allow ourselves to have plans for the extent of the state conflict we have in a financial programme if we were to simply build it on loans, i.e. We were going to have a angle that would be far greater than any evidence of a debt that we would have to attack if it wasn't for that sale. In this context, it is quite clear that we are releasing the property to limit loans. But that does not change the fact that we are taking a loan to finance our nap. We're still in sliding. In this respect, I think we are. A senator agrees completely. We manage to limit loans, and we are able to maintain the state's investment levels. Then we can constantly discuss how we should prioritize the expenses we have in the budget or in a financial program at any given time, in which the budgeting goes down to 1,000 billion, we can talk about it forever. But it is a key to my mind that Iceland has already paid 108 billion, apart from the government's income, and we still have some property that we can sell for over 100 billion. These are measures I want to take in, in context of our financial goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u59	A respectable president. I'm gonna let me analyze some of the highest words. A minister would like to do whatever he wants to do in an effort to reduce the debt of state funds. But I'd like to point out that the moves would scare, including... for Shiman's sale where certain projects were to be carried out, but because the money wasn't earmarked specifically, they went to something completely different. I'd like to encourage the highest. Ministers to be very committed when he makes this conversation with his colleagues in the government, that this will go as much as possible to limit loans, pay off debts, and specific investments and infrastructure. Another thing I want to ask the highest. A minister is how he pursues competition, how he sees consumer protection become greater by taking this step. It's clear, and the Contestant Council says there's a low level of banking markets and financial markets in Iceland. How does he see that this competition will be overthrown so that we can actually get competition for financial and banking markets in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u60	A respectable president. I simply believe that by freeing the possession of the State, we get more advanced banking systems. Still, we have great ambition for the Bank of Land, and we want it to be in the highest order and to be an excellent minister, even if he has a government possession. But I think that by taking the whole holding part of the state into two of the three major systematic banks, it is more likely that the development of the entire system will be slower than it would be. Hopefully, this sale will attract bank owners who, in cooperation with bank managers, will ensure that it will be the front line for their clients. This will always be a challenge in a non-profit community where a handful of media, a handful of insurance companies, a few financial companies of this size, but it should still be our ambition to compete there.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u61	A respectable president. It was a decision in this second round of the sale of part of Iceland Bank not to carry public invitations, i.e. The public did not afford to buy at this tender auction. The evidence was that there would have been enough of such investments in the last bid. Now it would be time for qualified investors, professional investors, and for this, there would be some arguments. If the idea is to eat large investors who rely on them to support the bank's long-term business, thereby buy a large share, and take a substantial market risk by buying a substantial share, a possibly post-traumatic value, it would be reasonable to give a discount on market prices. The cost of such an invitation is also lower than that of simply smaller contact with fewer parties, more positive of interest, simpler implementation. That's how it was set up, that it was a technical application that paid off. That would be well known. When I'm at the highest. In the morning, a minister was asked why this 5k had been granted. a discount, despite a significant excess demand from letters in the bank, was the answer based on the importance of the overall picture. Who bought was what mattered. If it was just about finding the highest bidder, the right investors would not necessarily be found. Yeah, who you bought is important. Well, you see, that's up to you. An offer is certainly a well - known method of selling large parts of an enterprise. But two things need to be kept in mind. First of all, the discount isn't made in stone. He takes into consideration interest, and we have not been given to know how that interest spread. Just a statement from the Bank Office that there was something beyond the demand and then a news transfer where people are trying to put two and two together. Second, it is not just selling property, not just some company, but government property, public property. More important, the public is given clear reasons why the price was so high and why the buyers were allowed to buy and why so much. This may be a major test of government, real transparency, and plan, a vision for the financial system. What do governments want to see? Who should have the Icelandic banks, and how realistic is that view? So it was said that it was good to have a foreign partner at the time when it was known that such a thing was unfair, to get a big stable investor with long - term grounds and experience in banking, perhaps even a foreign bank, to buy a bank here in a petal system. Two - sided registrations were canceled at the time and tried to get the bank out of the country, so it was always clear that this was going primarily to domestic investors. And who do we want it to be? A respectable president. Before I go further, I'd like to make a comment about the event in this trade process, a certain tone. I'm a great spokesman for the topic of topics without unnecessary notice, but I don't appreciate it when it comes to such a big matter with a little fancy tone: we know what we're doing, it's just a technical matter, and you out there just don't know how financial markets work. V.E.G. The secretary of finance consistently refers to the Bank Office as an independent member who was placed outside the state's bank property on an armpanary basis. Then there's a plan for sale and the Bank Management Board will begin to tell people and the national representatives how this is going to be done. It's all very arrestic. These are just facts and figures. Then it gets to the top. Secretary of finance up the lawsuit from Bank County and swears by the politics because it all comes from the Bank Office. But there's politics in everything. It's political in what criteria are used in introductions. It's politics in how comparative numbers are powerful. This time the Bank Office's presentation of the sale of Iceland Bank was published on a large scale in order to provide a long explanation of why the bank tax was so bad, showed a decline in the property of the state's funds for the tax. But it would have to say that in the introduction - which is crucial if we were to consider whether the bank tax would return an net positive sum to a state fund or an net negative - that inside the figure of the presentation the value of the Land Bank, a bank with no value to sell. This had a significant effect on the presentation. This is important because the discussion of keeping the Lands Bank is not just about what it returns or does not return in the state box but also the maintenance role in financial markets, the importance of having a firm anchor when it comes to pay ratios, the financial ratios, the cost ratios of society. And this explanation of the Supreme Court. The financier for the apartment loan fund is remarkable in this context because it was exactly the political decision that was made here in 2003 to open up the sanctimonious surrections of an apartment loan fund that bankrupted the apartment loans. Then, in bank introductions, in particular about this matter of bank taxes and why it would be unreasonable to revise the decision made in Covid to reduce the loans on the banks to stimulate the economy. Yet, large sums of money were also given to companies in Icelandic businesses to prevent major traumas that helped with the balance of banks. As a result, the loss of worth that went back last year at the creditors of the banks and gave them a huge amount of interest as well as a great deal of stock market activity as a result of government stimulus, they gained enormous profit. That's a big political thing. There's politics in everything. But the banking board shows up with a presentation and talks about how bad it would be for banks to check the bank tax. Excuse me, but what is the state trying to do with this sale? Maximizing profits, peaking costs for a short time, or trying to build up a community? It's turning to the mattresses of the system, how very important institutions are being acted in our economy. Although they go into private markets, the way the banks are fired is political. Here is an institution designed to be technic, highly political, dignified president. This gives us the highest witness. Secretary of finance, such as sacred truth. A respectable president. I would like to state that the discussion on this subject, the sale of banks, is in harmony with the politics of inevitability, politics that tell the story that we are always on the right track. A problem may arise, but it is only necessary and the secondary effects of a system from above, a neutral system. Inevitably development in the case of an unorthodox marketing system is shown in a way that the main issue is getting things in place, the invisible hand, the market will just put things in place. If a secondary effect, some purchases that do not have to be bought, e.g. on discount, it's just a sidebar, like just heard in the answers. Secretary of finance, for the big report is that the bank was sold. If you forget the facts, you don't have to ask critical and difficult questions and look inside that the process just takes care of all of this. This is exactly what I say in relation to the highly important side product of this current sale. The offer cannot be taken out of the political way when selling public property. It's gonna get us all in here. My disappointment was that the goals of the sale could not be dealt with as clear as anything on the table. What was hoped to sell? How did the offer work out? I'm pretty sure if it's the best. A few weeks ago, the secretary of finance would have stood here and said that it was the goal of the sale to get in a bunch of infallible small investors to put in 10 to650 million. K. In the bank and give them a discount on the amount of money they could as well buy in the postmarks as everyone else, they would have been made a comment on it. Why was a stepby left for such little people to float along? Why? We haven't had a clear answer to this. This should be listed on the highest list. Minister quoted earlier because the information that has so far been presented merely tells stories about the big parties. The big movie. It is this inevitability. Secondary effects, side effects don't matter. Such discussions, stories like this, as I quoted earlier, rumors about who gets to buy and who doesn't, are not a decent, respectable president. Have we learned nothing? We need to get this straight. It's the highest. A minister declares that there was a full reason for such a discount and to restrict the share of a person then who was, too qualified, too large, and too long - term investments? It always needs to be. The confidence I feel is simply too small here on the banking system to allow stories such as this to float without telling what was really going on. I repeat, we don't know who was allowed to float with which little people were paid to buy and why. One party bought 55 million. Dec., second 27, the third for 11. This is just what we know about random information. Are these long-term investors? Are they taking on considerable market risks for the public to place this bank on the market? I refuse to compromise that this is some kind of normal arrangement. It's not. The purpose of the proposal was not to allow any professional investors who are investing for their personal accounts to obtain a small discount. This kind of amount, small amounts that attract less attention, can often indicate corruption. How were these members chosen, how much of Iceland's bank in this traffic was sold under market prices to parties who had nothing to do with a discount like that, because they could buy in the market? Parties that are not big long-term investors but possibly just on the right list for stockbrokers. It needs to be published. How does the proposals look from large long-term investors, and did they really call these sources allowed them to do so? A respectable president. Sadly, the view of this sale is not quite correct. There seems to be a limited sans for the sensitivity of this privatization. The idea is somehow that this kind of sale was inevitable, the side effect, those who were allowed to float, no matter how well the hall went. We have five years of experience with a private banking system, five years. It's perfectly normal for people to be afraid, but now it's time to put everything on the table, just to publish all this information. How great was the mass of the people's memory? how chosen they were, of which list they came, the sums, who got the coin? Why was certain long - term investors who were not investing for their own books rejected? There are tremendous opportunities ahead of us. I hope it's all on the surface and there's nothing to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u62	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with the professional investors, it's unnatural for this group to have been small investors, with little financial ability, and that at discount. I heard it also this weekend that people just didn't know about this, people who would have been interested in being with and participating in this, on funding, but suddenly this happens. People ask, "Why was this on the list? " What was that guy doing out there? And that's also the fact that they pretend, that's absolutely right. A senator says, the government's attitude: We know what we're doing. It's self-pleasing. It's like this for collapse-self-pleasure and nothing else. What I want to ask you is why. A senator is following: Does she see any purpose in selling Iceland's bank other than meeting the government parties as shown in the Constitution? I don't see any goals there. There's no extra competition. I remind you of Professor Golfa Zoëgi's article in a clue as he speaks of the role of the U.S. Contestance Commission as a basis for examining the behavior of the banks. Bank behavior will not change with this sale, it will not increase competition. But I'd like to hear it from what I hear. A senator sees whether this sale and the personal development of Iceland banking will increase the competition. What are your goals? What are the goals? A senator sees beyond the will of the Independence Party, that Iceland's bank will be private property and owned by private people, for example. in this group now who do not have financial ability to own a bank? It's just that you're giving subscriptions for your own profit and that's all. What else is that? We're not talking about transparency in any way. I'd like to hear what's going on here other than that there were no calls on a particular party. The servers didn't call certain parties, just call some people. It all seems that at least a bit of the professional investors weren't supposed to be there, and what is that other than gang members? [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator could answer that question too.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u63	A respectable president. I must admit that I am disappointed that there is no proper transparency in this process. I haven't thought it normal that this bank is necessarily owned by the government forever and has said so publicly. But I feel that it matters how this is done, so it's disappointing because if the objective of this sale was, for example. to increase confidence in the banking system and communication between them are such small incidents, which are a little pushed aside to undermine the whole process. That is why I am so disappointed. Of course, I would like to see, now that we are on this journey, to sell the bank at this point, that these funds would be spent in social development. I've said that in many places, and I can say here that I think it's normal for the Lands Bank to be kept but nothing unusual about selling Iceland. There is then time and place to reason. But if now the goal was to increase confidence in this process and to think that hundreds of calls are of no importance, then it's just the wrong end point. It's exactly one of those side-by-side products that matter. This is exactly what makes people worry about being put under the table and some who are more connected than others. We can't afford this. This is big. I'm just hoping to get to the highest. The secretary of finance will put this information under pressure, and we will find out why the Bank Office approved this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u64	A respectable president. I got the answer to one thing I asked about, but I didn't get an answer about the increase in competition, and I want to say that my category, the Party of the People, was the only party at the General Assembly that was at the sale. Why was that? That was even. Because we had no confidence that the trade process would be decent and that it would be possible for us to have confidence in it. We can be sure that what happened during the last days is not to increase our confidence. This confirms what we were saying and the arguments behind the fact that we were opposed to this sale. Clearly, only part of the government's property, stocks in Iceland bank, is being put to private hands. There is no such thing as reorganization of a financial market, reorganization of a bank market, or extra competition. The cost of banks in 2000 was 29 billion. Bank profits last year, 2021 82 billion. There's no evidence to suggest that. There was nothing important in the banking system, except that there was a Covid situation. The Icelandic state was pumping money for financial businesses, and this is one reason why Icelandic banks are making so much money. This is not because they are doing their job, they are surely shrinking their savings or expenses, but they are not going to consumers. This is not in the limit of charges or in terms of less interest. There is no way to increase competition. The government's property is being sold to allow access to self - worth and nothing else. That's what they're doing. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator telling him whether she sees anywhere a scar on the fact that there will be more competition in a bank market selling on a bank account in Iceland. Will it increase the competition and knowledge of a Icelandic bank market in the financial system? I don't see that knowledge. It's a profit-employment exercise, and that's all it is. The international financial and banking systems do not deserve the confidence and respect it seems to have in the government classes. [[The president calls.]] It is simply not too much discipline and not enough knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u65	A respectable president. Thanks for the follow-up. Whether this sale has increased competition - I think it's very difficult to achieve a proper competitive environment in a Icelandic bank market. Of course, the buyers are key. For example, it was not possible to get in a large audience with a considerable knowledge of banking, foreign organisation, possibly a foreign bank with knowledge of this kind of activity. There are many reasons. One is that we in the United States have pointed out, whether people like it or not, whether they are in favor of the European Union or not, that the fact is that there is never a large party, a foreign bank, to buy a share in the Icelandic banking system only to take a risk for 350,000 markets, the currency risk, the cost of a dollar and the commercial risks in small companies while we have a cent. It's just something we have to face. If we as a community make the decision that we do not want to enter a currency business, we need to recognize that there will still be few in the Icelandic financial market. It's just that way. But I can't see that with the buyers who came in here, there's an enormous competition in Iceland. There's nothing to come up with any new knowledge there, and I'm going to allow myself to claim that this few members, the highest. The secretary of finance will hopefully inform us about who were involved, who were not bringing some enormous knowledge into the bank, which makes them need to get discounts and take risks to enter the bank. I'm not sure it was the opening point, but I'm not quite sure that while we're in a single cash economy here, we're going to have a proper competition for the market. That's the fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u66	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for coming here and having this conversation with the council. It's very important and it's important to us, because this is a huge case we're discussing here today, and it's very extensive. At this point, as well as at an earlier stage, the meeting is important, and discussing it here at the council is certainly a good thing, and I want to thank you again. According to the Government Treaty Pronunciation Group, Independence Party, and Left Company, the government will continue to reduce the holding of the state of the financial system and the use of funds that are involved in such infrastructure. According to this, selling stocks in the bank is not surprising. Since 2015, plans for sales have been made on a government program. The Icelandic government acquired all the shares in the bank as part of Glitt's stability during the development of the swelling farm and was owner of two of the three major businesses working in the local financial market. Since 2008, changes have been made in the rules for bank owners. For instance, investors who intend to have an active share in the bank must pass an audition based on a thorough analysis and data collection. The evaluation is based on all of the following: the reputation of the one who intends to own or increase his share in the bank, reputation, and experience of the head of the bank, the financial health of the one who will be assured, including the one in charge of the bank. taking into account the activity of the bank, that the possession of a conflict does not control, and that holding does not result in financial evasion or the financing of terrorism. The obligation of the active owners to provide UNECH has been increased, and this has been an ongoing monitoring of appropriates. A restriction on ownership is permitted to be considered inappropriate for the owner to carry an active possession object, and this despite his previously evaluable qualifications. In terms of those considered professional investors who were qualified to participate in this campaign, it is so that they are the financial companies themselves responsible for the definition of who may fall under the definition of professional investments and are qualified to meet the requirements for professional investors and have been reviewed above. The process of selling the stock of the state in Iceland has been discussed and particularly why it was done in the way it happened. Words such as the covert of night have been used in this context. Is it true to keep it up that the path selected is widely known and recognized as such, i.e. keeping a secret about the timing of invitations to prevent moving messages at the bank's market for tenders. Then there is the way to start postwar invitations and until they open the next day. With such an invitation, there is also a chance to cancel if the oers are not as expected without harm to anyone. This cannot be done if the invitation is extended over an extended period of time. A respectable president. Selling a 35% share of the government last summer was a success, despite the uncertainty of the economy when it was decided to sell. The demand was much higher than the supply, and a total of some 24,000 shareholders grew in the bank. Each item was sold at 79 K. and studied the value of the items by 55.3 billion. This was the largest market and the second largest general market in Iceland. The sales were in good harmony with the government's plans as they appear in the bill for budgeting for the year 2022, showing that the policy of selling all property in the bank this year and the next year. The sales are now based on the same core goals and arguments that were put forward during the past year and are reducing the risk of the State of so large a financial system, promoting active competition in financial markets, to maximise the recovery of the state fund of ownership and sales, to promote a wide variety of healthy and distributed resources over time, to increase investment potentials for domestic and professional investors, and not least to reduce the debt or increase the State's budget for social interest. The government's banking administration sold 22.5% of Iceland's outstanding stocks, equivalent to 450 million shares in the bank. The sale was 117. So the value of the item was about 50.6 billion. At the end of the state fund, 42.5% of an outstanding share in Iceland banking. The State Department's warrant to sell the stocks of Iceland's Bank in several steps having agreed with a minister is in force until the end of 2023. The wealth now holds 42.5% of the stock, as mentioned earlier. British and American funds have a combined total of 11%, and domestic stockholders are the largest pension fund. The shareholder is the largest member group of registered members and can be said to have achieved objectives of diversity and distribution. The economy was very uncertain when it was decided to sell 35% of the bank's share money, but now the situation has improved greatly. The assessment of the value of the business bank's loans reveals this reversal. About half of the emissions of 2020 have been pulled back in the accounts by 2021. As a result, the profits made between the years and the financial account of the Bank of Iceland, which lay the basis for sales of government funds, are far stronger than the ones found at the source end. The price of stock is considerably higher today than when Iceland's prime tenders were released last summer. Thus, the primary market totals have increased by 17% since the end of tenders and the prices of stocks in Iceland banking are now over 30% higher than by the end of the first day of business on June 22 of the past. The value of other banks has also increased at the same time. The administrative part considered this to be a good time for the state's funds and a way to maximise the value of sales on parts of the state's budget. Instead of future pay, which always has considerable uncertainty about, there is no single payment for sales that would reflect the future pay from the bank's business. It has also been observed that the reason for the timing of the sale was that the desired movement has been on the limit in Europe as well as at home and can be stated that this assessment was correct. The discount given to professional investors has also been considered. That is, for the first time, that is well - known and, in fact, it can be said that such an invitation is almost unprovable. In advance, the discount cannot be stated, but it depends on the market for the stocks. In the case of Iceland Bank, there was an excess demand that led to a successful discount rate of 4.1%, which is considerably below the proposed or thought that such a discount could actually occur, while plans or ideas suggested that such a discount could end between 51.77%. That the discount is as low as you can see is the quality label of a Icelandic financial market and should be welcomed. In view of the discussion that has taken place regarding the discount, it is true that there is no abnormal practice there, and he is well - known in such invitations. The State's debt status at the end of 2021 is completely altered by the effects of a pandemic crown virus. Sales increase the funds of the state's budget and allows it to reduce debt and to engage in social interest capital investments, as well as to increase the trust of investors in the budget, making it easier for them to raise loans in order to achieve a major mismanagement. It is desirable to use the sales value of Iceland's bank for social investments as long as they are compatible with the baseline financial policy of sustainability, security, stability, firmness, and transparency. As globally speaking, the economic improvement in the country has proved to be more powerful than was expected at the beginning of the epidemic. Unemployment has dropped much faster, and private consumption has increased more than expected by the end of 2020. There is a great deal of a powerful response to economic management, which maintained the domestic income and contributed to the creation of a number of new jobs. Business investments proved to be much higher last year than expectations, and housing investments have also achieved a more powerful resistance. More important, the improvement in travel services following extensive vaccinations has proved to be both more vigorous and more persistent than initially feared. After the arrival of vaccines, the epidemic's new waves have not had as much effect as fear was at first. In December about two thirds of what it was before the epidemic struck, the map of foreign tourists in Iceland was about two thirds of what it was. The increased confidence that tourism activities have achieved permanent improvements and closer to the level before the pandemic has led to increased confidence in economic recovery in the general population. A respectable president. It is and will continue to be a challenge, and those who have been present have done their best, and in my opinion, the right decisions that have been made and will have a positive impact on the business and status of the state funds in the complex and complex situation that the state fund is experiencing after the tragic events experienced in the nation in recent years. The funding the state fund receives from the sale of parts of the state of Iceland banking will be useful in the resistance and the needed infrastructure in the coming years. We need to continue on this journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u67	A respectable president. The U.S. Department has strongly opposed the financial and economic decision to agree to the government's proposal to sell property items in Iceland. That it is not the State's role to own a bank, it's not a reason for sales, it's based on the ideologies that everything that can be private should be. Everyone is free to have such a outlook, but those who accept it have never reasoned why it is so much worse that the state has a bank that serves society. Rather than selling it, there were other ways to go. It would have, for example. It is possible to separate investment banks and business banks and to establish an adverse social bank, banking banks, and creditors'interests instead of investors'profits. In ordinary business banks and community banks, community banks place themselves with consumers and aim all decisions to benefit them. And before more money is sold from banks, it must be taken seriously to exploit the money made by banks in order to heal those who fell out of the crash without any cause. Yes, 2008 the collapse of the bank is still completely unfinished. Sadly, though a group of people strongly oppose the sale of banks, at some point it is not possible to say that the government's holding on banks was a blessing to consumers. On the contrary, the state, along with the pension fund, has submitted to and accepted the bank's profits, which has brought bad harm to consumers. The Kingdom has never made such comments to the statistics that the banks have had in recent years, since despite the fact that last year's statistics, it was followed by many fairly generous years. In that way, the banks made a lot of money, and still more in recent years. However, although the State did not defend the financial requirement, it was there and had the chance to intervene, the government can give up. The banks have an enormously extensive impact on the lives of all of us in a direct and indirect way. They have, for example. all the power over the loans offered in the mortgages, which are the largest currency in most homes, if not all of them. I fear that this power is largely in the hands of investors, no matter how well they are, because I think that its trade is primarily about to maximise their own profits. Then, too, a surprising assessment of qualified professional investors, such as the first news of those who were allowed to buy, turns out to be inside, three individuals, who were actually high - ranking at the back and up. But what made such professional and qualified investors so successful that they were taken above others? All those humans - all men - Iceland banks in one way or another. One through marriages, one is the senior employee of the bank, and another is in his command. These three people bought a total of 97 million shares for which they paid 94 million. One of them runs an ehf society with a negative personal status of 135 million. What made him a professional investor? And in 2015 another went bankrupt because of 313 billion. K. You owe - Yeah, who else than Iceland Bank? I'm not even going to discuss the fact that, despite all of this, he's on the bank board, but I'd like to know why a person with this story is eligible for a closed post of professional investors. How did these men finance the purchase? Did they borrow from the bank themselves? The requirement for calling yourself a professional investor is as follows: 54. g. legal on the market for financings, by permission of Presidents: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. He had significant trades at the appropriate market for the next four quarters, on average at least ten times per quarter. 2. The value of financing and the individual investor combined over 500,000 euro, relative to the official reference rate as it is recorded at one time. 3. Investments received, or served, for at least one year, a financial position requiring knowledge of a planned business or service. Aesthetically investing has to meet at least two of these conditions. It is hard to imagine that investors with negative personal status meet criteria 2, for the value of financiers and the individual investors combined with more than 500,000 euros, or about 70 million. Furthermore, you wonder if these men had a significant business 40 times in one year. Clearly, two of them have been in the management board of Iceland banks for a year or more, but the third one is uncertain. There is a reason for the nation's distrust, both in this trade process and in the fact that banks are usually sold. The memories of the collapse and the leading of the nation are fresh memories, with some highly clever men, some titled professional investors, robbed the banks from inside and then made all their pay available, but they themselves have been living in luxury ever since, during the time of, at least Fifteen thousand families lost their homes because of them. However, all of them kept their homes. In fact, some of them were in prison for a short period of time, but so I speak for myself, I would have chosen a few months'imprisonment rather than the threat I faced for an entire 11 years as well as losing my home. In time, all the new financial regulations that should change everything and prevent these same disasters from repeating themselves have been established. By permission of the President, I'd like to say the highest. Secretary of finance that these regulations do not make much difference to consumers who are at the mercy of banks. In addition to their lack of respect for consumer protection, the financial watch is weak. Nursingly, it is clear that the Nite Owl is weakened by bringing her tasks and funds to other institutions. The domestic interests have, though I myself report, often being the only person who has granted the banking system and who has been the only advocates of consumers in the financial market. These organisations are run for the most selective social fees and depend on voluntary work, as well as on two employees, in total, one status. I am so proud of their work, and their influence is greater than most people realize. Still, there are superpowers in combating an entire banking system and the enormous financial resources there, as well as, unfortunately, a government and government system that always put financial interests above the interests of their households. The collapse has not been renovated and, during that time, there is no lack of confidence between the nation and the financial system and probably the government too, at least the matter of this group. The community responsibility of a bank has been considered. At an open meeting of the Economic and Business Committee with the bank manager, he said he expected and, in fact, expected the banks to show community responsibility. This is the comment, but I think I understood the bank manager's right. Unfortunately, I do not share his belief that banks will show community responsibility. I have not seen any evidence of it, and I have pointed out that my own fight with a bank after the 2008 collapse did not end until November 2019. In spite of all the regulations, the bank took the tremendous force he had to the full, and I never saw any evidence of anything but the intention of reaching out for what they could, at any cost, and even though I and my family were standing there for nothing. But if the secretary of finance and the Bank Department share this religion with the bank manager, was anything done to ensure this social responsibility before sales? Was this religion discussed with prospective buyers or given some form of terms in the export evidence? Or should we just be evicted? When we discussed the sales of Iceland Bank on the Economic and Business Committee, visitors, e.g. From the Bank Office, the Stock Hall, the Ministry of finance. All were very in favor of sales, and they repeated the same fate over its benefits with great devotion. They believed that sales would strengthen the funding environment of Icelandic companies, benefiting the financial environment, and attract foreign investors, to name something. There was also considerable emphasis on the government's risk of having a bank, but at the same time it was considered positive and desirable that the pension fund would invest in it. When asked if the State would, if everything went wrong, jump in and save the banks, it was tried to avoid comments about it, but it could be understood that this would be the case. What, then, is the risk to the State? The banks have made a huge profit in the past decade, and now they will be making money in the pockets of qualified professional investors until some kind of banking crisis becomes available, and then the state will take over without profit from the previous years. In what ways is that a positive or a risk reduction? In other words, all the exits of the Copenhagen, the Bank and the Ministry of finance were based on the interests of investors and markets, but consumers were some kind of leftover size, such as something that is of little importance. In fact, the sale of banks was discussed with the increase in consumer competition for the benefit of consumers. Does anyone really think that all of a sudden, because the state sells banks, there's gonna be a competition in the bank? So did the State interfere with competition? This is such bullshit, it doesn't even talk. In Iceland, there's a few in a bank market. They all know that there is no real competition between banks, and it will not change by selling one more bank. Don't try to make us believe it. However, the National Association of Iceland is totally against the sale and its representatives met with the Economic and Business Committee and the established ASI stand, which was identified in the conclusions made by a central management committee from 20 January 2021. I read here a section of the resolution, with the permission of a president: ▪ The Allied Union of Iceland strongly protests plans to sell the share of the state of Iceland in the uncertain conditions of the world. ASI central management criticizes the speed that marks the process and considers that the sale has not been fully reasoned. It is important that the State, on behalf of the public, have access to financial markets and maintain social views in the restoration of the economy. It may not be possible that sales would compete in a financial market, and the current time point is not ideal in view of economic uncertainty. The decision of ASI ends with the following words, with the permission of the president: The ASI government rejects selling an item of the State to improve the state's financial status or finance investments in social infrastructure. Recent tax downs on capital owners do not indicate that the government is deeply concerned about the survival of a trust fund. A call for sale at a bank does not come from the public, which in the vast majority is opposed to such sales and positiveness to the State as owner of a bank. The ASI representatives attended a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, and they retraced the position they presented a year after it was written. At the time, the demand to invest in Iceland was greater than that. You would expect it to have a higher price for the bank than expected, because that is how the Law works on supply and demand. But we, who are not chosen, are now to understand that the market law does not apply at the market. The market laws that are held in high esteem by investors and those who want private resources - everything that gives some profit - are better prepared to compete in a market so that the market will be in accordance with the availability and demand - are ignored when it is sold well - founded professional investors of the bank. If these qualified investors were not prepared to pay the price, it was their case. The demand was great. I'm sure it's selling a very lucrative investment and that most of them would have bought anyway, because at least it's a suitable professional investor who knows a good deal when they see it. But was it usually put to the test? In fact, we have been told that it is customary to give discounts at such purchases. But what was the custom, and why should we submit to it? For example, when the state's record of these 2 billion people, according to the last legal laws, there are a lot of money involved. only 430 million for the social security system in the next four years. The global insurance system is very low, and the last budget was down to over 430 million in it to ensure legal increases in which it had become so that public insurance pensions would keep up with inflation now 6.7%. The 2 billion investors on a silver plate would have done well there, or in order to increase the number of nurses to the elderly beyond the 364 that are now funded, for it is clear to everyone that they do not meet the need. How can public funds be treated with such contempt because investors are accustomed to getting discounts? It smells familiar from 2007 of what's happening right now. There are reports of huge profits that ordinary people don't even have the basis to associate with, even from companies that recently received large financial funds because they were so bad. This financial support has not been paid back because tax payment does not include loans, as some would mean. There is also the report of the supersaturated executives of state companies, which are not in complete agreement with labour market costs. The profits of the banks are high, and now they are being placed on both rapid and reliable investments. The track's starting to scare. It seems to be starting a new party in Iceland, like 2007, but at the same time we find that a single parent on the minimum is technically bankrupt, missing 83,000 bucks. each month, it can support itself and that a couple with two children will be at the management house almost 90,000 bucks. per month. I wonder if it's the people who'll be stuck with the lumbermen at the end of the party. Will the sheep-black artist who doesn't have it at the party pay the cleaning like last time? A group of people say no to that. Never again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u68	Madam President. I want to thank you very much. Financial and economic ministers for the report and a good review of the sales status of Iceland banking that was offered in a government contract. It says, by permission of the president: The government will continue to reduce the financial holding of the state and the use of funds in the construction of infrastructure. We on a financial committee agreed for our sale with the following arguments; that by selling the stock market, we could reduce the financial needs of the state, that we could be supported by a credit rating, and strengthened the state's position on the budgets, and finally to reduce the debt and increase the State's scope for social interest. It is important to keep in mind that we are concerned about the money available for the sale when there is a payoff on the state's budget, but it has become a great deal, as we know, even. to face the economic effects of the crown virus. In view of circumstances, it is more important to build under government investments and infrastructure projects and, of course, is this sale involved in this way. The sale provides additional space for these investments and, especially, to reduce the growth rate, a considerable one. As a result, the pay of the state is on the way we go to the nation's economic benefit and support, as previously said, set goals. It is a political decision, indeed, to make the sale the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics went over to their case earlier. If the highest bidder had been sold, all the effort the government had had to do with little, and it could have been so much that we even end up with one person who had a truly community - important bank account. Then we will likely have a conversation other than what we have today. We decided to place the sale in a way that would allow the possession to be distributed, and it puts special emphasis on it in order to ensure transparency and benefits, as mentioned. But how important it is for society to take care of these matters! We want the owners of the very important institutions that Iceland's Bank not to take risks, they want to see their interests in long-term holding the item, and this country's fixed stability. The trade process was called according to the reviews of various parties and received in some cases. The reviews of the Contestant Commission that address the viewpoints I have considered over a wide range of property to the bank in order to build a market competition. I believe we have achieved that goal, end the bank with the largest holding on the Icelandic market. But I understand that sales in Iceland Bank bring up mixed feelings. I was a deputy council member during the years that followed, and I remember exactly what the situation was, both in politics and in the economics. But it is unmistakably true that a regular work around the banks of this country has been greatly improved, and the surveillance has been intensified. Normal, there is no one who wants to see the community coming on a time of hope, as it was here 15 years ago. When it comes to the sale of socially important structures, whether banks or others, there is always good reason to do so with zeal and skill. I think it's a very powerful community to do this in the way it was, and it's in my opinion that the public wants it to be, and how much participation was in the first campaign, so I think, a respectable president, this sale has led to a lot of good. As we have seen, more of the Generals wanted to sell the bank and to ensure that the arrangement would be met and the cost would be met. I believe that sales at the bank were in accordance with this will, and we have met the conditions set, that the Bank Office followed the instructions given, and that loyalty has been given to the distribution of property, transparency, and clear and careful management. But I'm saying it's important that we get information, as we have discussed today, about those who had the opportunity to buy, that's exactly what my investors are. That's why I welcome the words of the highest. Minister that he will publish all this information as soon as they are received. But we, on the budget board, also get the bank office to visit after lunch tomorrow and hopefully get the answers to some of the questions presented here, for, yes, it's her job to handle the arrangement because of the length of the arm we've chosen to put here in the World Health Organization. I really hope that after the discussion that comes to be on the committee, we'll find out what we need to hear. That's what may have been pronounced here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. The chairman of the budget for this coming-up is happy we're getting the bank office to us. I wanted to introduce to you what was discussed here about these little investors I mentioned in my speech, how they shock. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, whether she thinks it is in the spirit of the one who was discussed in the process when we got the bank office to us at a budget hearing, but also from the review of the greater part, to run there to small companies that bought 10, 30, 50 million. K. An object. I'm asking if she thinks it's a bad idea because we didn't realize how many of these parties were. Is this in relation to her understanding of the proposal, giving any sources a discount in excess of others?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u70	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Perhaps we never discussed it within the committee when we received this visit and presentation, and perhaps it was because we were always thinking large things, we always wondered who they were, perhaps thinking primarily about the pension and some general investment that we saw for ourselves as a long-term investor. I'm not going to say anything until I've received some answers from the Bank Office on that and how this arrival of my investors came to be, how they were selected, and all that has been presented today. I'm not going to make any big decisions as to whether it was normal or not. I think it is more convenient to wait for an explanation and answer the question before I take my stand. But truly, I agree that it is unfortunate, however, that this arrangement, which we thought was good, is, at least, a state of inexplicability that does not strengthen the support of the trust we want the banking system. It's the smell I'm worried about in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of elders and the chairman of the legal committee for the answer. It's quite remarkable to wonder why they didn't talk about it. V.E.G. A minister said earlier that this had not been mentioned in a review to form from the Committee, much or less, but I intend to claim that it was because most people assumed that when it was talked about long-term investors who needed special treatment, it was just huge investors. I'm not sure there is a requirement that a financial committee should have written about this in their review. The bank office, supposed to be so professional, should have so much knowledge, was trusted out of an arm - long direction to exercise this authority. She should have seen it. In that respect, I understand that the more part has not published this in its opinion because I think most people have just assumed that this is not the way the campaign would be carried out. But I'd like to think about it at the moment. Chairman of the budget board, Berk Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, whether or not she will join others, especially us in the smaller part, pushing after it, like the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance has introduced a willingness to do, a full list of those who bought. There will then be a special selection if necessary, so that all these names are published, and they do not hide behind one of them, so that we can also see on the committee and in the general population, for each individual enrolled and why the members were disabled.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u72	Madam President. It's true, as I said before in my previous answer, that we didn't discuss this specifically with the Bank Office except that it was first and last of all about large long-term investors. That's right, the Bank Management Board was set up at its time to be in a long arm from the executives, and I believe in itself that it's a good arrangement. When we trust the bank office in such an arrangement, as this is, it is of course very important that we experience confidence. I think that's important. Yeah, I think we're going to have a lot to push after this list, like the highest. Minister mentioned today, and I spoke before, too. It's all very important, and I really hope there's nothing inside the system that's stopping us. I see them mostly that there could be a personal protection or something like that, but it shouldn't be, but it's an open out in some way. At any rate, I think it is so important that we trust in the arrangement, and we will, of course, sell more of the bank, even though there is truly another arrangement to follow, more like the first, a greater mixture of professional investors and the public. I believe that in order for us to have some feeling that this is being done well with power, we must get the bottom of this matter--all who had the chance, how it happened, and all of it must come up on the table. I agree with that, I think it's important.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u73	President. We are now talking about sales of the government of Iceland Bank, which has so far been reported in two phases. Piratars expressed their attitude toward the sale in their opinions through the water. A financial and business committee and a financial committee for the sale and will make much of my discussion based on that opinion, but first I think it is important to make the following items: First, the decision was to re-start a trade process without proper identification of the previous phase. This was a mistake in my opinion, since the first hall was a failure, as I found out further. Second, it is critical that information on the payment of the second sale is not available, despite the fact that the resolution would have been announced by tomorrow. As a result, it is difficult to take an informed discussion about whether the stated targets of sale and the type selected by a drug trade have been achieved. It is unclear who bought, how they were chosen, who could not buy, and why. It is particularly critical, in view of the highest words. Ministers already on transparency and equality, not to have fully obtained information on the sale. Finally, I find it important to correct misunderstandings that seem to be involved in Pirata's attitude toward sales in Iceland Bank. Piratars have been claimed to support this process of sales. Far from it, a respectable president, as I will cross. Pirata's position is that we are not in the prince's mood against selling government stock in Iceland, that it is not necessarily desirable for the state to have two banks. But we have not supported this process or the first because of the many comments we have regarding the process, the timing of the sale, and the procedure of the minister responsible for this process. Now I've come to that comment, a respectable president. In a letter to the financial and economic minister of the state's Bank office that deals with the sale of Iceland Bank and plans for continued sales of the bank, it says, on permission of presidents: June 22nd. During a successful premiere of over 35.0% of the bank's stock market at 79 k. Each item. The value of the 55.3 ma. K. and was the largest original tender tenders and next to the largest general stock tenders in Iceland. Today, the final price for each item was 124.6 k. and the market value of stocks in the bank as a result: 249.2 m. K. and market value of 65.0% of the government's holdings in it 162.0 m. K.◯ Here the Bank Management says that a 57.7% increase in the value of the items after a previous sale is a successful operation. According to sources that happened to you. The budget is natural for the seller to want the value of the stocks in such an initial auction to raise something in the wake of the auction. In a historical context, a seller might feel that such an invitation would be successful if the value of the stocks went up to 10% or so. But the only people who could think that the first bid was successful are the buyers, since it is giving buyers 27 billion bucks, which is the difference between the 10% increase that should be desirable and the 57% increase that really happened. The problem, of course, is that the banking agency organized the tender load. Clearly, it is not an independent party to determine whether the invitation was successful or not. A respectable president. The declared targets of the sale were: 1st To reduce the risk of the State of such a large part of the financial system. 2. To promote active competition for financial markets. 3. To maximise the reimbursement of state funds from the holding and sale of the items. 4. To promote a long - term variety of healthy and distributed holdings. 5. To improve investment options for domestic and professional investors. 6th Above all, to reduce debt or to increase the State's allowance to socially profitable investments. If the invitation has been successful or not, the need to consider whether any of the above goals have been met should be considered. Several goals are long - range and difficult to appreciate today. However, some of these points can already be made in comment. 1st To reduce the risk. A greater part of the Economic and Business Committee estimates that there is a significant risk in the current business model for business banks because of technical progress. At the same time, however, it is repeated that the State will continue to own more of its stocks in the Lands Bank. Officials also say that the business banks have been fired as private banks in recent years, so it would be a question of why the State was in such a business. The indication that because of the bank's risk would indicate that banking in such cases is taking risks that would not be taken by the government. Piranha points to the paradox in this risk assessment. It is just as risky for the state to have banks as it is for personal driving, at least for the sake of personal knowledge. if the banking system goes under. The State's cost would likely be similar, whether the banks were private or publicly owned. This does not mean that banks should just be fired on official grounds. Rather, it simply means that taking the risk is not a valid reason for sales. The reason for allowing the private enterprise to make technical advances in banking services is better than that is not to be explained by the State of the Lands Bank. The risks of Iceland's bank sales were so obvious following the premiere. The risk of the bank being subversive was far higher than the national risk of any other factor, for there are many things to do for the 27 billion exposed. 2. To promote active competition. Whether this goal has been achieved or will be achieved is unclear. The majority of the reporters expected the pension fund to be the people who bought in Iceland. It's not exactly a competitive country where the pension fund is just competing with the banks for mortgages and investments. Similarly, in this relationship the Agency is having trouble caring for its own surveillance role because of its subsidiary. There is no plan for the government to promote the ability of the Contestant for monitoring in parallel with the sale, which is a concern. 3. To maximise the recovery of state funds. Clearly, this goal has not been achieved, and the minister himself has even withdrawn it and has said that it was never the primary goal. In view of the outcome, perhaps all you can do is pull ashore, 27 billion in a gift package for buyers from public pocket. Why did the sale of less than 35% begin while the value was still lost in order to reduce the loss of the empire? In later health, 2.25 billion from the public pocket went to discount buyers, despite the fact that much extra demand was on the basis of the items and that both pensions and public investors were willing to invest in an outpost but were rejected. It leaves questions about why an investment was sold with a similar discount for less price and less size. Hv. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir handled this part of the matter in his speech earlier, and I wholeheartedly agree with it. 4. To promote a wide variety of assets for the future. This is where all the reporters agree. There would be no guarantee of such things when each person is free to sell his own things in the future. Of course, possession would surely become more scattered than if the State had all the money. But there is no guarantee that a wide variety of assets, much of it healthy, we saw that a week after the first sale, large foreign investors sold most of their letters at 20-225% profit. The individual taking part in each campaign is no guarantee of continued ownership. 5. Improving investment opportunities. Of course, this goal will be fulfilled spontaneously at the sale, but it is quite another matter whether doing it is a good idea now and in the way it was done. 6th To reduce debt and/or to make return investments. There is an excellent analysis of how debt will develop to the next year if the government borrows less. It is relatively easy to calculate those sizes. It is harder to calculate the profit of having banks, however. This is interesting because it is also harder to see which investments are more profitable than having a bank, i.e. if they're going to use the sales value of Iceland banks for something more profitable. It would be good, therefore, to have some analysis of it at the same time, as there is no question about why this timing was chosen beyond others or why the second invitation was handled in such a hurry. It can also be considered, in particular, by the uncertainty of the markets of these days because of Covid and the war in Ukraine, why this time point of the whole family was chosen to sell the second time. But how do you sell the bank, a respectable president? Bank administration suggested that Iceland's Bank be sold with two types of equipment in a mix, on the outside, and on the other hand, according to a communication plan. Sales outside the market, or in English, the over-the-councer, by permission of the president, are made up of certain investors that meet certain requirements of the seller. In such a business, a discount is common. The second arrangement is a standard market sale, where the seller provides time and intensive communication plans. A third commonly used method is the method used in the original package called marketed. It's a more expensive process, usually because it's complicated to store the stocks. The price is now known, however, and as a result, the risk was less likely to go that way. A central route is generally a good way to sell, but it takes a long time to sell a large portion at the bank. In our opinion, it would have been normal to go to another market if the purpose of the sale was to find new owners at the bank. If the goal is also to maximise the state's budget of holding, then there is an extraterrestrial offer that generally does not have a suitable discount, as it has been shown, to such a peak. The maximum application schedule and as soon as the marketing authorisation is known, the marketing authorisation holder will also issue this as well. However, an offer was made without the possibility of reaching its goals by means of that process. We have not yet been justified in the reason why the discount was given, who were paid for, and who were not paid for, and why, or whether equality and transparency were kept during the sale. President. Politically, there is just no reason to sell Iceland's banks, but in order to make a political decision, options and goals need to be there; otherwise, it is not a political decision, it is a decision to make. The bank has been getting ready for a long time, that's right. They have been fired as if by a private company, with the goal of maximizing their value so that they can be sold. The value of the bank is reflected in the bank's own money and interest, but it should be considered here that the profit of banks comes from consumers, the people who borrow to house on high interest. The bank's budget comes from the government's holdings on the banks, comes from the bank owner, finance and economic minister. This literally means that the interest of banks would have to be higher than if the money was lower. Normal people taking loans are paying for this question of fruitage. People taking loans are paying more money to raise the price tag in Iceland, and when the bank was finally sold, it was sold with 27 billion dollars. discount. It's only right 1% of the gross domestic product that last year's secretary of finance and economics gave away by the joint property of all of us. Such a politician who fucks up public property in such an all-starly way would under no circumstances be allowed to continue. Although it may be a good idea in general to sell Iceland banks, even now, and although it is generally a good idea to get rid of the government's holdings in financial companies so that the state does not have two banks, it does matter how such a sale takes place. It should be obvious to everyone that Iceland's prime tenders were completely screwed up from the standpoint of the government. We all lost 27 billion in the pockets of those who could buy in the bank. In time, we lost at least 2.25 billion, if not more, in view of the excess demand. But it's not the buyer's fault, a respectable president, it's a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u74	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The secretary of finance for the report he gave at the outset of this discussion, as well as the fact that it is important at this point that we take first hold of the sale and its impact and that discussion is not completed here today. That discussion will continue. For word's sake. Councilmen, chairman of the budget board, the Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and why. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir's daughter, of the budget that took place earlier, I would like to agree with the words both of them said. We are in a position when the Bank Board arrives tomorrow to discuss just the points that have been here to discuss these less investors involved and ask for an explanation. I think I can say at this point, a respectable president, without having listened to Bank County's explanation and hearing evidence that there is the point in my mind that we should get to the bottom of, without saying that there's a special judgment at this point. I think the discussion will continue, and the review of this sale will, of course, take place. Since 2015, plans for selling items in Iceland have been on the government program. The government gained all the shares in the bank as part of Glit's promotion and became owner of two of the three major businesses working in the local financial market. On the other hand, we support the bank sales and the handling of property parts in the state we issue law No. 155/2012 and we set up the Bank Office to handle these objects and put them in these multi-digited arms lengths from the Polish. We need to remember this discussion today that we have maintained this arrangement, we have walked the 2012 legislation site, and I'm going to get closer to it in my later speech, a respectable president. Selling a 35% share of the state last summer was successful. The demand proved to be much greater than the offer, and a total of some 24 thousand shareholders were born in the bank. The result of a price of 79 k. for each item, especially in view of economic uncertainty over the pandemic of the crown virus. By the end of 2021, however, the number of shareholders had decreased to 15,700. At the beginning of this window of sale today, the state's budget held them at 65% shares in the bank. British and American funds had a total of 5% of their assets, and from national stockholders, the largest pension fund was the pension fund. The shareholder is the largest share group of registered members, and it can be said that the objective of the wide variety and distribution of property has been reached. The object of selling items in Iceland banks is listed in the Ministerial Report on Council Committees, the ones to whom this has been discussed. The Minister's report comes in, in fact. until the main aim of selling parts of the bank is six; to reduce the risk of the state of property of such a large part of the financial system, to promote active competition in a financial market, to maximise the recovery of the state funds from holding and selling items, to contribute to a wide range of healthy and distributed long-term holdings, to increase the investment potential of private and investors, to reduce debt or to increase the scope of the State for community interest investments. A respectable president. I want this very point to stop at the word that is highest. The minister of finance was so clear in his report at the outset. We've sold a share in this bank that the government has given us for 108 billion dollars. For this 108 billion bucks. has managed to reduce the financial needs of the state, which saves us up to 16 billion dollars. every year. I think it is of utmost importance that we put this fact directly into context when discussing the value of the future and the future execution of these banks and see that by this action we have built just what an investment plan we have had, and it appears to us. in a financial program recently delivered to the council and, in fact, will make a recommendation. The economy was very uncertain when they decided to sell 35% of the money in the bank. Now circumstances have improved greatly. The assessment of the value of business loans reveals this reversal. About half of the emissions of 2020 have been pulled back in the accounts by 2021. As a result, profits grew considerably between the years and the financial account of the Bank of Iceland, which lay the basis for sales of government funds, are much stronger than the source. I think that when we discuss the profits and profits of a bank last year, it is important to keep this key facts in mind, in which the precautions in 2020 were largely reversible, which alone well reflects the trust of the government's hands to support the work in the case of the Korean virus epidemic returned to the users and then to the homes for longer periods of time that the banks drew down into savings. The price of stock is considerably higher today than in the early emissary of Iceland Bank last summer. Thus, the primary market totals have increased by 17% since the end of the tender tenders, and the prices of Iceland's stocks are now more than 30% higher than by the end of the first day of business with the letters on June 22, the past. The value of other banks has also increased at the same time. A greater proportion of the legal committees were evaluated in response in the letter that is reserved in such a process to respond to the secretary of finance when he announced the expected trade process, to the fact that the sales would now be uplifted to the maximum value of the state's funds. Instead of future pay, which always has considerable uncertainty, there is a single payment for sales that will reflect the prospects of future pay from the bank's operations. Later, the same letter states: DURING the past few years, there have been advances in technology within the financial sector. It contains a great opportunity, but it also carries a considerable risk to the current business model. In view of the changes that take place in financial technology, it is difficult to see that the State is the most suitable owner of a bank where quick and difficult decisions must be made to keep business ties competitive in the coming years. The majority of the financial committee also stated that it is inappropriate for the government to take responsibility for and monitor the process and that the government is also related to the companies involved in which it works. This is a scene, a respectable president, which I miss a bit of the discussion here today, that men have not remembered and given more attention. The aim of reducing the debt and extending the State's allowance to social interest investments is in place. The Commission called for a memo from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs that specifically discusses the impact of Iceland Bank sales on debt and interest rates of state funds. It was very important, since the role of the legal committee in this process is primarily to assess the effects on government funds for a long time. One reference work showed that the largest uncertainty factor in this assessment is an impact on the Kingdom budget. If not available for further sales of state funds at the bank, the effect is threefold. So, if we didn't go to the current government stocks, then the government's credit form would be higher than any other because of financial needs. In turn, the government would continue to receive money from the bank, and it is good to continue to do so. It may then be assumed that an increased bonding form will push up the Kingdom account requirements. It continues in the financial minister's memo to the Committee: This year's budget is estimated to be a 160 - inch - in - a - year publication of national bonds. K. If it goes up to 235. K. This could result in an increase of 0.2 percentages in the state's growth rate during this and the next year, leading to a lower rate of Kingdom growth. Such estimates are, in fact, dependent on the level of uncertainty. A higher debt may then push the demand up by another 0.2 percentage points during the progress of debt. This means that the increase in debt, even though the increase is small, increases over time as well as the costs of all other expansive debts. Also, interest rates increase because of higher borrowing than those of the bank. The net effect relative to these criteria is that interest costs increase by a total of 32 masks. K. During the period 2022 placed in 2,226, and debt is increasing by 152. K. In addition, it can be noted that if the estimated value of Iceland's bank is not used to reduce debt, it will increase by 4% of GDP and will thus be higher than expected in new financial policy. In recent years the importance of maintaining the government's investment has been highlighted by the majority of the committee in order to contribute to the long - term profiting investment of all the citizens of the country. This was not possible in 2008 following the collapse of the bank, and it can be said that government funds are still reaching the land of that sector, i.e. to take care of the maintenance that was lost in the infrastructure that then required paying for the lack of maintenance and extra investments in order to offset cutbacks in these areas during the first few years after the collapse of the bank. Saling the remaining share of the government in Iceland Bank contributes to this goal. This gives rise to increased room for needed investments. A respectable president. This is basically what most things are. The legal committee laid the groundwork on what they thought. I want to end up reviewing that in the laws on the sale of the government's property in financial companies, No. 155/2012, the exact method of such a sale has been charted, all of which were fulfilled in this process. It refers directly to the offer, the tithing of the bill submitted at the time so as to discuss in some way that it is an unexpected twist or unexpected way of selling just not appropriate. After all, a respectable president, I just want to say in the end that I think, in the long run, it will be a step in having sold this holding part at this time is of utmost importance to the future need of a trust fund and to his ability to live up to the welfare systems he runs and to the health and investment level that we want to be possible at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u75	A respectable president. Selling Kingdom property requires careful, complete transparency and equal equality. The method used in the previous bank sale made people suspicious of the sale of government property and unclear how the funds obtained for that sale were used. When the telephone was sold at the time, the money was always expected to enter the construction of a new land hospital, but certain politicians took the liberty of throwing it into the economic black hole formed after a collapse. Finally, on March 22, the government's Bank Management Board sold a very unexpected 22.5% share in Iceland Bank at 117 k. an item or a total of 55.7 billion. The invitation was carried out by a so - called proposal consisting of foreign and qualified investors, i.e. professional investors and reputable sources of information, as it is mentioned. However, the first sale was made at 35% of the bank, so the state has become a minority partner in Iceland. Reservation did not make comments at the bank's sale, assuming that the sale is reducing the risks of a large part of the country in the developed financial enterprise. Only this can contribute to the more competitiveness of financial markets. The restoration also stressed that at the sale the criteria mentioned in the review of the Contestant Board would be looked at, in particular, in the pursuit of the most diverse property of individuals whose long - term interest is determined by the national trust of banking. It is important that the bank's holding is distributed and that its buyers of items at the bank have no more interests than to be the head of the bank's competitors, the owners of large segments of the bank's competitives, or its professional customers. Further, restoration is important that government funds cannot be set aside for the general business of the state. Because of their monopolitan activities, it is urgent that they be spent on community interest ininvestment and/or subsidies on the debt of state funds. At this point, however, the value of the bank's sale is not clear. Will these funds be used in payment or in subsidies, or will these funds be used only in the insurmountable business of a government fund? The government needs to account for this. Then the speed of the sales itself becomes noticed, and this in itself gives rise to suspicion. Why could no more advertising be made for interested buyers? Could it not have made it possible for foreign authorities to prepare an offer at the bank, or was this way to prevent foreign residents from buying because they could have created pressure on the crown? Or are all our economic actions in terms of protecting this damaged crown? We must also ask how those who bought were chosen. Since there is much to be asked, some interested people may not have been allowed to buy. How were the buyers chosen? When considering a widespread possession, such as financial and economic ministers, why wasn't the first way to go, i.e. to invite the public to buy something in the banks? Also, there is no possibility that there is a healthy competition in a banking market. Is it, e.g. of the good of the good that pension funds that have been competing with banks at a loan market will become the biggest owners of banks, or would it be right to give them additional investments in foreign lands instead? A respectable president. It seems that this method of delinquency has caused much of the public's blood to be suspicious of this process. Don't pay government property to create wolfism in society. It should be out of the question that honest business practices have already been involved in the management of public funds. It's important that things are working out. As I mentioned earlier, selling the government's property to Iceland Bank is in my opinion positive. The sales are designed to reduce the risk of the State. The situation is that even though the bank's business has been profitable over the last few years, it is essentially risky and the State is not supposed to take a risk in the treatment of public funds. The sales are also designed to promote active economic competition, and it can be competitive that the State alone or almost one is the owner of two thirds of the market. In this way, quality is hidden in promoting diverse and distributed property, but it also needs to ensure the variety and distribution of property. We need to be sure that it will take into account the trade process. All the steps that contribute to the growth of foreign investment are also positive. Icelandic markets are not particularly desirable for foreign parties for many reasons. Last January it was quoted by the executive director of Deutsche Bank in the Northern States that starting here would not respond to the cost of a global bank. He also said that there is no doubt that the U.S. dollar is a major obstacle. Not surprisingly, though, it would increase foreign investments, increase services for consumers, and increase competition if we had euro. The crown stands in the way of this. This is not limited to bank markets. The bioavailability of innovation companies to foreign investment funds would be better if we had a global currency and a stable growth environment. It's risky to move money to Iceland. And just like the highest. About a year ago, the minister of wood said: Having money in Iceland is quite complicated. A respectable president. It is important that bank market competition be active. There is a key issue of ownership. We need to be sure that large numbers of buyers with Iceland banks are likely to be responsible for long - term interest in banking. It will interfere, for example. incentives to compete individually if buyers also share in bank rivals. It creates a risk of conflict of interest if they are important to his customers, e.g. if they had access to financing more easily than their other competitors. This creates an obvious danger from a financial standard. A report by the World Council of Parliamentis following the financial collapse described that the largest owners of all major banks received abnormal loans from the banks they owned, apparently in the force of their ownership. From this experience, we need a clear lesson. A white book on a vision of the financial system that was published in 2018, says that it was the case. that a healthy possession of banks is an important requirement for financial stability and the trust of the public in the banking system. It says, by permission of the president: To take possession of a bank, owners need uncircumcised trust based on their experience, knowledge, and honesty in business. Owners with long - term interests are more likely to support the bank's future business and to be useful in promoting lasting trust and long - term business relationships. It is important that the largest owners of systematic significant banks have financial opportunities to stand behind the banks during difficult times. It is desirable that the main owners of the bank, and their representatives in the management board, have extensive experience and knowledge of financial activity useful to policy making and making decisions. That's why it's unfortunate, as it is, that from the beginning of the tender auction, nobody ever asked to buy a piece in Iceland bank. What professional investors were chosen to buy the item in the banks? What conditions did they have to meet? How was the equality of the suppliers guaranteed? Why was this information not revealed before the sale? Is that not a requirement, especially in view of how long the bank's sales cycle has taken? Another factor mentioned in the White Book is the use of property. This is an important requirement for evaluating risk factors forassociation. So we also need to look to the pension fund. They were large owners for which we can assume that their relative property has increased at the sale. What's the same pension fund in other banks, and what's their competition with the banks at the mortgage market? Because of domestic investments, the bank's largest clients also have stakes as important shareholders. A respectable president. Diversity and distribution of holdings and markets may contribute to a greater degree of reconciliation with our banking system. Such material can easily kill trust. A direct approach to strong foreign investors would have been designed to have a positive effect on the future competitiveness of Icelandic banking services, to increase stability, and to reduce the risk of cross-making. Here again we see the danger of being small markets with small currency and fluttering growth. But the salami is positive, it was right. In Western countries, there is a wide range of commercial interests that are rare. Rather, it is the naturality of the state through a system of routine and surveillance that contributes to a healthy financial system, not by direct and risky and competitive holdings. A respectable president. I would have liked to see another and an open job selling this item in Iceland Bank. The process was not open and beneficial to me, and it did not fall for the public's confidence that public funds have been handled well. Besides, I can't see that all those who were paid to buy were qualified, large investors who intend to invest for a long time. The sale could have been longer. They could have presented interested candidates in advance, just as when people are applying for a public job, the list of candidates is placed on the table. But this is not done when millions of dollars are being sold. Sadly, this was not done, so the result is that this sale is not stable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u76	Madam President. We're here to discuss the recent takeover of the government at Iceland Bank. V.E.G. In his introduction, a financial minister gave many important points, and there is reason to stress these issues. For example, the highest power was mentioned. Ministers that now aimed for the stability of the then - known bank Counting, would be nearly 300 billion dollars. It's gonna matter, and I don't doubt that me and the highest. Ministers share good memories of the strokes that took place to ensure this contribution and others, since it was large. On the other hand, when we face such great interests as this, we are assured of what was involved in the inoculation of them or in ensuring that the Kingdom would receive the most of its share. You're right. You're right. One minister said that it was good luck at the time to have the old banks who failed to be on state property. The situation of the Icelandic government was greatly strengthened by coping with extreme economic hardships but at the same time finding solutions to their tribulations. It worked well, and I think that's a very good reason to remind you of that. The minister of finance was doing very well in this fight in his day. These were measures that tolerated the state of Iceland's state funds to the point that no state, I think it's safe to say, at least Not in the latter period, has achieved economic reversals, and has reached the Icelandic state's conclusion on the development of broken-down banks, and the takeover at Iceland Bank is part of it. I noticed shots of the highest power, too. Secretary of finance, kind of gunfighting, on the government team, on the advance team, when he speaks of a community bank, and inundated, so to speak, in his lawsuit of that company's policy regarding a so-called community bank. However, what I would first want to stress here, in the short time I have a provision for this important discussion, is the way the government has used to cash out the benefits or the following cases of legitimate demands for the up payment of broken-ups in view of Iceland banks. No other comment can be made than that in the original decree, it turned out to be a low one. This was criticized at the time, and the answer was inevitable, so it would be impossible to determine how stock prices would develop, which is certainly true. But after the initial discharge, the value of these stocks increased greatly, and those who had been involved in it would have made that profit available. Then comes the second phase, and you wonder, " Did the government learn from the experience of the method and price? I'm not quite sure of that, because like a lot of people, whisk. This afternoon's discussion has caused members of the council to wonder how these others were involved in the sale of the State in Iceland. Then there's the other question, how does the government use the funds it gets for the bank? There we have heard the proposal or ideas of the government on the use of funds, on the one hand, about using this budget to pay off government debt, which may not have to be surprising and is a reasonable arrangement, but we have also seen in the approved Parliamentary arrangement that there may be a potential need for income from Iceland's sales to be used as a city-based basis. It was specifically mentioned. You wonder again: " Is this being done in a reasonable way? Is the budget being set wisely? In fact, there is no direct connection between the sale of Iceland's bank and city line, but the funding from the state is the same as that it can be fully applied to this sale, that the state is defending the income in a project that is in my opinion unfavourable and that it is intended to fulfill the Council of the Union in Reykjavík. But these may be all extras in the big context of this: When the Icelandic financial system was attacked in a very large way while making it up to the creditors of the bank, I stressed that there would be a need for the opportunity in it to fix the financial system in Iceland. The first stage would be to receive contributions from the rest of the households, including the rest of the population. In the form of ownership of banks, but the inevitable continuation must include using the unique position thus created to reorganize the financial system in Iceland and make it work better for the Icelandic company and the Icelandic public because it has not. The Icelandic financial system has not worked for the Icelandic public, and it has nothing to do with the euro or the Icelandic crown. It has to do with how this system has been installed and organized and run. There was a unique opportunity to make a change. Prior to the 2017 General election, the Central Party proposed to reorganize the Icelandic financial system in the light of its current situation, not just the bank position but also the pension fund, insurance companies, the rest of the financial system, because it is a unique position that does not come back. It is a great sin that the government during this terms period, as we now see with this sale, and the last, should not have taken advantage of this opportunity. There could have been a sale of the government's ownership in banks, Iceland banks, and Acion banks that the state had in their power to take over too, in such a way that the financial system in Iceland would have used to the entire public much better than today. These areas of industry do not follow the same laws as other parts of it. It's not like shopping stores or any other business. Banking, the financial system, it's got a very special situation. The banks, in fact, have the authority to print money, and this requires that the government make certain demands on them. The opportunity to make these demands and reorganize the system was there, a unique opportunity, but it has not been new. We set up for the last election, at least To begin with, a third part in Iceland's bank would be distributed to all the people of the country as well. That's a fair privatization. Thus, there would have been a real price, the real value of stocks in the bank, and all Icelanders would have benefited from it just as much. It was a large amount of money, for an average family, probably well over a million dollars in terms of the price it was immediately after the sale. But this was not just a matter of handing these valuables over to the people, so they could take them along and apply them in a way that they thought most wisely; it was also a question of how the public could approach the financial system. But that did not happen. At that time, this invitation was launched at its own time, and then the original, and then the second, phase, at least. relatively unclear in what way to choose or decide who to buy. This raises the inevitable questions. But if all the public had had equal access, equal share, then first, a healthy and normal market, a natural price, and the entrance of the public to the banking system would have been guaranteed. Why wasn't this way gone? I imagine the government would say that its role was primarily to ensure the greatest profit, the greatest benefit of sales. Did this approach guarantee it? I'm not sure. But let it lie in between things. If it was the government's position that it would have to be done in such a way that the direct income of the state of the sale would still be overlooked by the community importance of the financial and economic importance of the whole community, to create, design, implementing a financial system that works better than the financial system we still live in Iceland. This is my main concern about how the government has been handling these donations from the bank that she did not take advantage of the opportunity, this unique opportunity to fix the system. It's the same in the health system and, in fact, all other systems. It's not called on to fix the system itself. Opportunities such as this are not new. I can't think of a darling. Secretary of finance to have chosen an alternative method or to reach some abnormal goal. But the highest. However, the minister and government did not choose the methods that could have ensured a change in the financial system in Iceland, which, in the long run, would have been far more valuable, far more valuable than the billions that the government receives from its bank property in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u77	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for oral reporting on this matter, which is certainly burning on many people. It's important, like the highest. A minister mentioned, that the trade process is all open and beneficial, and that's one thing I'd like to point out to the public what might be done better. I'll ask you some questions, but I don't necessarily expect a minister to answer them all. Of course, he is free to do so, but perhaps he should take them as the most planned destination, for he is still going to sell some part of the bank and may be able to learn from this on what might have gone better. Sadly, the public does not believe that this process of sales has been very beneficial or open, and it is naturally understandable in part because it is not very easy to understand how such things happen in this sector. For example, what it means to be a professional investor is something that may not be known. But there's just nothing that we decide or that someone decides, that's a legal definition of it. There is also a very good reason why there is a definition of what is being a professional investor. This is so as to ensure certain consumer protection because you do not want consumers to offer something they may not have enough knowledge or experience to determine if a good investment is or not. A fine example of this, if we want to take something from the past, is when stock was sold 20 years ago and some years ago in Decode. Everyone was buying it because it was supposed to be the next one that made you rich. The company was not available back then, and then it ended up that the letters became worth far less than most had bought for them. But when it comes to going to an invitation, and to an invitation as it was decided to go to now, i.e. Of course, questions from the public about who was invited to be included in this campaign are raised only to professional investors. All registered professional investors in Iceland were invited? Actually, I don't know if that file exists. How did this come about, and what rules were there about whom? It is one of the major questions that everyone asks himself during these last days: Who was allowed to participate and who did not? Yes, it is simple to say that it was a professional investment, but was it allowed to share or were there some individuals who had the right connection? When the time came to pick out the bids, we come back to that question. Were there any rules or predefined actions on how to choose these options? Were these rules clear and accessible for the release to the investors and to be published so that we can see the rules? The shareholder list does not show up any foreign investors this time, so people also ask themselves if foreign investors were offered access this time, the second outing, and the number of participants. If invited and nobody participated, it is a natural red flag. Link: What rules were there on which foreign investors were allowed to participate in the original and second commandment? You see, if those rules are unclear and the process is not beneficial, people will, of course, raise doubts about whether cousins, manners, and corruption have occurred. You even have. has been seen on community media and on the news and on the Internet asking if people associated with those in charge have been allowed to buy or invest, something that was not available to others. Yes, it is only natural to feel anxious about corruption when the transparency is not good enough. Now I'm not saying that there was corruption, cousinry, or favors, but, of course, given reasons in the light of history, it's something people are afraid of, so it's very important that the transparency is the most important thing. V.E.G. A minister pointed out earlier that a list of shareholders would be published, but it would be interesting to know if a list of those who could share in the invitation would also be published. Similarly, when this shareholder shows that the real owners of things appear, not just their tenures, so you can identify real relationships between owners. Of course, let's hope that none of these buyers are derived societies that are hard to trace. It also raises some questions that the current share list can be seen by both the Bank of the Lands and Anion banks among the largest shareholders. Is it real? Are these the banks themselves buying, or were they buying for customers? If these were the banks themselves, you might ask: " Is it good that there is a holding between all these parties? Other points to the highest level have been made. A minister spoke of institution investments in the first bid, is that some of the major sources who bought at the source sold very soon, which surprised many because most of these types of funds are usually put in binding classes on suchinves. That's the right to finish my speech. I'd like to mention two things. On the one hand: Yes, it's good to get your income into the wealth of 108 billion, but we must not forget that the bank has paid interest in the government funds for the past few years and would likely have done so over the years, so that in the coming years the wealth of the state will be slightly reduced. So it's not quite as simple as saying we've found 108 billion. But finally, I want to ask the highest. Financial and economic minister that as soon as there's going to be just one state bank, the Lands Bank, are there any plans to change the bank into a bank where profit and profit will not return to the state fund, but will he make a bargain and a better access to funding for the public? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u78	Madam President. I'd like to discuss a sales trip here in Iceland Bank that took place last week. What are we looking at here? Yes, we see that the elected delegates are selling our assets under price so that investors can make and continue at the party because they miss the year 2007 so much. I'd like to remind you of the famous words the Árni of Mathiesen fell on March 17, 2007, with president's permission: 'Drengs, don't you see the party?' This is what he said when asked whether to take seriously the warning given to analysts and foreign banks. What happened? The investors and bank owners stayed at the party until it all collapsed and the public was stuck with the shit. The people who were never invited to the party were made to pay free of greed for investing. If the bank crisis hadn't come up, the taxpayers would never have had two private banks. During the above - mentioned bank crisis, a worldwide number of banks collapsed. Personal banks are always falling apart. According to a well - known study, the world's world's banking failure took place between 1970 and 521 in 19702011. Despite the fact that legislation is far better with the banking system today than before, there is no indication that the banking system is at ease. First, the lobsters are working to make the rules clear so that they can start floundering again. And they have generally become a wish in the light of history. The reason for the development of special insurance laws on the bank accounts is the frequent failure of the bank banks. More often than not, it is the taxpayers who feed on the sandbox game of their private banks. There are many people who believe only those who can run banks. There are many who believe that the State is not to run banks at all. There is no basis for that in the light of history. There's no trust in the current banking system, and that's no wonder. Let the public live by a reliable banking system. So I think I can truthfully claim that if you insist on taking the bank back, they're offering unpublished checks to pay the taxpayers just so that some investors get to play with the banks for an indefinite period of time. Should we not learn from history? It is a measure of intelligence not to repeat the same things again and to expect a different conclusion. With President's permission: ▪ Insanity is doing the match Mental illness is doing the same thing as expecting different results. To prevent mental illness at the Allied Council of Iceland, we must avoid increasing the share of the banks because it will only land on the taxpayers sooner or later in history. There are other options in this situation than the ever-repeated personalization of the banks. A devastating operation is to start a community bank. You know, starting a small box of community banks will not change anything and, therefore, can't be a limit if you want to reduce the power of capital over Iceland's banking system and reduce the damage to the public that will eventually have to exist in bankruptcy. In order to ensure the interest of taxpayers who saved their private banks after their own privatization, a strong and powerful bank must be established. That community bank needs a big one. He has to be the biggest bank in Iceland. He's got to be the boss. He must be a big brother whose other banks lean on if needed. In order for it to become that big, both the state and the community must deal with it. Such a bank is just a business bank, not an investment thing. He's property and community. His aim is only to build himself up. That is why he offers inexpensive service more than any other bank. It is largely a taxpayer's profit. There's a lot of difference between community banks and private banks. Personal banks do shareholders, but community banks do the public. Since community banks are not involved in investment activities, i.e. The casinos of private banks are much less likely to get financial problems or bankruptcy. I'd also like to correct the misunderstanding here on the fact that a camp loan is some kind of community bank. You can't compare an apartment loan fund to a bank because you can't go into an apartment loan fund and start a bank account. Then, if people want to have a few banks and invest in investments, they'll be fine just as long as we people don't have to pay their losses. Why am I talking so much about the flaws of this banking system? It is because we are compelled to do business with banks that are both investment banks and business banks. We the public want a choice. We people are not interested in investing at all. We simply want to do our regular business with our bank, a bank that brings our pay to book, lends us a loan to have a roof over our head, and maybe borrows to buy a car or travel, since most of us would like to have just a normal life in which we are safe and can be confident that our bank is secure, so we can focus on the family and in general enjoy life. There is also a certain group in society that enjoys making money and making a living, such a professional investment that has often been mentioned here today. This group has every right to play with their money. I also feel that the public has every right not to be involved in their game. That's why we want to go to The Gang of the People fight to set up an ordinary business bank that works for the people and doesn't take part in the casino investment banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u79	A respectable president. The importance of ensuring the working environment of smaller financial institutions in the country cannot be overlooked, and especially for those in the scattered possession and, in fact, social property, as the remaining funds. I'd like to specifically mention the Bank of the Stranders, the Sparavil Fund of South Parliaments, the Bank of the Cape Towns, and the Bank of the East; the Bank of Banks, or the values of those we've spoken many times for the past few years, the banks that people care about, know and serve closer to the environment. Some of the savings ran off the crash and the big banks to devour them, an ugly practice that was so sad to tolerate. They are a source of support to local citizens and businesses where they can be found. In the discussion of the possession of banks in Iceland, we must not forget this story and how important it is that one of the major banks, the Lands Bank, remain in the community property of all the peoples, to contribute to the spread of the most widely distributed property of the big banks, as it is already released on the property of the state of Iceland banks, and that we protect and secure the future of our community banks, such as the savings that over other banks show community responsibility in various parts of the country. We in the left green have never had a policy that the government should own the whole banking system, but it is clear to us that the Lands Bank will not be sold. That policy hasn't changed. At that time, the VG will stand as we stood by it during the last term. This is a wise approach, in my opinion, that the state, the public owns the Bank, similar to that of the Norwegians. To us who have an independent currency, this makes a difference to ensure the independence of the Icelandic crown. For one thing, I'm a spokesman for the fact that we, the public, the community, hold possession of at least One bank of state, and that should be the Lands Bank. Iceland's bank arrived in the government in a specific way in connection with policy-making agreements, and sales have been a long way off. The salinity is in full agreement with the government covenant and tenure policies and included the Treaty. The following objective: to reduce the risks of the State by such a large financial share, to ensure the desired economic competition, to ensure the financial wealth of holdings and trades, to contribute to the wide variety, healthy and spread of property over time, to improve investment opportunities for the public in Iceland and trade, to reduce the debt and increase the State's scope for multi-cultural investment investments. As far as I can see, these goals have been met by the arrangements of the sale.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u80	A respectable president. I'd like to start by reading up here around 3. law on selling property of the state in financial companies, by permission of the President: When making a decision on the preparation and implementation of the sale site, the open sale procedure, transparency, objective and practicality should be emphasised. Practically, the highest price or market price for property is applied. Care should be taken to ensure that conditions offered are reasonable and equal. In that case, sales should strive to promote active and natural competition for financial markets. The password here is open sales process, transparency, objective, practicality and equality. A paper on the law says: It is assumed that a possession share should be offered for sale in an open sale. However, especially if there is no evidence to offer an item for sale in this way, it is necessary to argue. In exceptional cases such an arrangement may be possible, in the case of an exceptional case - ◯ i.e. to sell on the less part of the State or if any special circumstances require that this arrangement be carried out. All right. This second section of Icelandic bank sales was set aside this general rule of open sales. In other words, it was decided that this time the public would not be allowed to participate, that there would be a closed invitation to qualified investors. And what viewpoints were behind them? Yes, the table was to be served, qualified investors, long-term investors, who would then be trusted to support the bank's long-term business. That's what we talked about. Secretary of finance earlier. He also spoke of the importance of sound tradition. The White book on the future of the financial system, the main policy of the government in these matters, specifically speaks of the need to consider the sale of property items in banks that are stable for new owners, the experience and knowledge of bank operations, and financial prowesss to stand behind banks in the face of difficulties. In other words, these goals were to be covered by an proposal that works by sales advisers to investigate the interest of qualified investors in one or two days, thus obtaining information about their willingness to participate in an assignment. This is a very common method of selling large volumes in registered European stock markets. I think it's important to keep in mind that there's nothing unusual in such a system that things happen too fast, that the halls take place after the market, and the conclusion is in place before the market opens the next day. And it's not unusual to be decommissioned. The discount is exactly one of the tools used to create this demand and attract suitable investors, long-term investors. That's what the game's made for. That was a good talk on The Morning Radio on Channel 2 last week. There, Mr. Snorri Jakobsson, said by permission of a president: The term probably preferred professional investors and some long-term investments. You may not want to sell some assets that are heavily in debt, which means that you are at risk to the owners. Yeah, that's what you would have thought. But then it just happens the day after they start to float out on the surface information about who bought it, and the first thing we get is that three insides are connected to the government and the head of Iceland Bank has purchased. One of them, e.g. A middle manager at the bank who bought a share through a holding society, which has a negative personal budget of 135 million on the last annual account, of which 120 million are due to a debt to the parties. In other words, he is one of those qualified investors, no doubt a fine man, but why was he called and not someone else? And how many calls have been made by the Bank and Management Board? Who were allowed to float along and who did not? Why couldn't these little people just buy in the market? We are talking about people who may have been buying 11 million, 20 million. Isn't this a closed tender for ads of long-term investments? How was equality really guaranteed in this process? I don't really think we've had any overexcited answers to that today. V.E.G. The minister of finance earlier spoke to a talk. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir, by permission of President: When it's done. A senator asks: "With what reasoning were small investors allowed? they were not allowed to do so in themselves. Yes, they were given special access. That's how such an offer works, isn't it? This is where I'm going to quote the government's memorandum to the secretary of finance, in which the Bank Board acknowledges that there are certain flaws in an arrangement, by permission of the President: Therefore, under the law of No. 155/2012. It is clear, however, that such an arrangement is not fully in the spirit of the principle of law No. 155/2012 about the opening phase and transparency. Thus, certain investors enjoy better rights than others, as the public cannot directly participate, and this does not guarantee total equality. In contrast, the standard practice of international stock markets is considered the preferred method for continued sales to optimise prices and minimise risks. The responsibility of those responsible for the sale will then be very rich in such an arrangement, it must be obvious, since it is ousted from this general rule of open sales. Perhaps the question remains, What was the purpose of this small investment? Why did they get to float along? Do they accept any significant market risk? Are these long-term investors? As we noted earlier, these are people who might as well have bought in the market. The purpose of the proposal was probably not to allow any professional investors who are investing for their personal accounts to obtain a small discount. The discount, then, is likely to attract these large and capable investors. I don't think I've got this for a while. Maybe I'll come back up later.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u81	President. This sale in Iceland Bank has been in preparation for quite a long time, normal. It's very strange that the state has many banks. Seriously, it's really weird, it's really competition with itself. But it does matter how it is possible to sell an entire bank, for in this century we have burned ourselves on it, not very many years ago, selling banks very unwarrantedly. What has been done in recent years in preparing to sell a bank owned by the State is maximizing their value. This has been done by e.g. that the state will need the bank for interest and money. This is so by the bank's having a business that makes money, someone paying for it, and it's consumers. Nothing more complicated than that. There the State is asking the bank, which is an intermediate in commerce and the like, to produce as much value as possible. Those who pay for it include those with interest at the bank, with bigger interest because it gives you more money. This is how the bank's value has been paid to be climaxed. What do you do when you go to the sale? Then there's a series of initials that buys advice on where the value of the bank is now, etc. When it's submitted, you'll hear a bunch of warning voices from here and from there that it's subversive. How hard it is to say about the epidemic and the like, which is definitely subjugated. It's interesting that they don't ring alarm alarms. The bank administration is made up of Ministers and Parliaments, and the recommendation to sell 25% of the bank and one of the market's goals is to maximise the recovery of state funds from holdings and items as well as to promote the spread of property, but there were no requirements for the future distribution of holdings. The setting up of the invitation was that there were actually smaller buyers who could get first and what such factors contributed to the initial distribution of property. But there was absolutely nothing that stopped them from just selling right away, which many did. About 25% of the original buyer's group are gone, and there's a chance that they'll still drag together something. You have to ask, "What does possession mean?" Does this mean a lot of investors who have fractions of 1 percent, or does that mean eight inset capital investments of 10% each and the rest in the scattered holding of smaller investors, or are we talking about three or what? What does this scattered possession mean? The result of the commission was the rise of prices. It told our experts that it was quite normal. It would be expected that for such an auction, this would be installed, so that the value of the items could rise by 5 to 10%. That would be a sign of success. It could be very acceptable to both sellers and buyers, but it became almost 60%. The portion sold at 55 billion had become worth 85 billion. Then you have to ask yourself, " Are these 30 billion good sacrifices for the consumers who paid to raise the bank's value for the interest of a trust fund or for this vague demand for distribution of property? ' That is absolutely certain, there is a warning that the bank was subversive in the original text. Nothing gets out of the way. That means that when the offer and demand became much more than people were afraid to hope, there would have been more alarm bells to call. Had to, for example. to sell 35%? Couldn't you just sell 25%, be careful of the possibility that it might be selling the bank too cheap? If even it hadn't been right by the highest level. Minister to say, "No, there's something strange going on here. We need to protect the value of the State, and we obviously need to do this better. The following questions show that the warnings about subjugation had something to do with it. Which they certainly did. So, in a few steps of the sale of the prototype, a minister failed to defend the value of the state's property, resulting in a further 30 billion dollars. loss of sales. Let's say 25, let's just slide it down to a 10% rise and what we could expect. Apart from the loss of 30 billion in the first commission, the question remains, What did the buyers receive and who did not buy? It is the same question as it is now about the latest sales. There were many more in number than they could get. Then you have to ask about the conditions, especially the conditions for reducing the State's risk, for promoting an active competition, for maximum recovery, for the wide range of healthy and distributed assets, to increase investment opportunities, and to reduce debt. All right. Consider a random example: Of two who invited, why did one get to buy and the other not? There should be very simple answers to this. These questions have passed through a budget committee, and answers have not yet been received about the previous sale. When you see in the second sale that some of the people who were bought with an insider position, the questions become even louder. The doubt that the sales were actually high quality, obviously, will be great. First of all, 30 billion people have been lost, at least 253/430 billion at the first sale, and secondly, it comes to the fact that there are inmates buying out invitations that were not shared and not everyone who wanted to be involved. These are major questions that we need to answer, and I would have expected that the answers should have been much sooner, at least on the source, but none of these are available, at least not compared to the questions we've asked in a financial committee. So I call out that we may at least not sell more, at least not the current minister, until answers come to these obvious questions about whether this was done well or not. I feel relatively obvious that the original auction was a very failure, at least in view of the goal of maximising the restoration of state funds from the bank's ownership. There is something that we could have done that would be good for us, even if only to reduce our debt, but there are other privileges that we could do. So about the second sale: Why did some and not others get to buy and what were the insiders doing there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u82	A respectable president. This discussion has been perplexing and very helpful. It is not just normal but an essential part of the sale of state property to follow along with a report and to try to ensure that the result is clear. Thus, at the time, the Bank Management Board gave a special report to the council on the sale of the country's property in Iceland after the first commission. This is a recent report, which now contains answers to some of the questions that have been raised tonight. I'm going, for example. step-by-concerning on the price prices of this tender auction has been discussed significantly, but it has been noted that the invitation included a form of discount and is being looked forward to the fact that at the end of the marketing date, there was something on the market that was published on the market. It is not unnatural for humans to carry on with their last recorded gang, that is only normal. But as I traced my story here today and earlier tonight, more must be kept in the picture when this comparison is made, and in particular should be looked to the extent of it being discussed in this case. In this way, it can be said that there was no discount given because there was no fixed price for sales for over 50 billion in this short period of time. What was the right price from closing markets until markets opened if the bank had to sell 22.5%? What was the right price? Was it written somewhere? I think it's necessary, when people think about it, to look to the scope of the sale. I have previously attributed this to an increase of 300 days, which is far beyond what has on average been comparable in Europe, where humans have seen a difference of 39 days on average. We can use a different standard. We can say that this invitation was repeated with the bank's share this year at the Stock Hall, which said it was quite successful. In fact, no matter what measure we measure this, it is not easy to say that before the invitation began, the correct price for selling this large part of property has been exactly the final success of the day. But I'm not criticizing that men use it as a reference, and I don't think it's abnormal, and I've decided that on that scale the discount was 4.1%, less than the standard in Europe. If we look closer and see what has been happening in Iceland, we will see that in Arion's bank, the least of the changes were to the price since things were sold there to be sold on the market. Here I am merely entering what happens from the time the invitation is closed until letters are taken for sale on the market, which has been discussed here today and turned to the first sale. If we were to wonder about the change in prices between the introduction of primary invitations and the taking of mails, it says in the bank office, from February onward, that the rise from the market was 19.7% in Iceland Bank and 18.4% in Arazon Bank. It was not a place for the State to come. It is difficult to say that the businessmen behind the registration of Arion banks made an open decision to register the bank with the intention of ensuring participants in the sale of 18% discount, some sort of, of real value. What happens simply during registration is that parts become more valuable. We'll see it all over again. This is one of the main reasons why a person is reaching out for a second list of enterprises that meet otherwise requirements. Then, according to the Bank Office report, it is helpful to review the development of letters registration in Iceland and Arion, on the other hand, the bank. It shows that the market development was very similar between Iceland Bank and Aion banks since Iceland's Bank was registered, which tells us that much of the market forces responsible for the changes in value of property in Iceland banking. That in itself is a great cause of joy and one of the basis for us to achieve a good sale in this traffic today. There has been a little discussion about the proposal itself, referring to the fact that this has been a reliable way and is much gone in other countries. I traced it a little earlier. But there comes the matter of sales advisers and financial advisers of the Bank of the county and before it is decided to engage in the auction, it is attempted to approach potential buyers, especially major long-term investors, such as a pension fund, to evaluate investment interests before they sell. It was after this had been done that the bank issued an announcement that he was going to perform the invitation. He had received indications that there would be a good demand. After the process, which occurs largely in cooperation with counselors who were invited to the table, the competent national and foreign investors are invited to participate. It's been a little discussed today and asked: "Wait, what exactly was the participation? Well, it is, of course, happening through this vast adviser network, a sales advisory network established by the Bank Management Board, and on the basis of public declarations that the invitation is open to these contacts. This has been particularly discussed today, and I've only come into it before, whether it was right to allow the smaller shareholders, and when I say today that it did not have a particular decision, I'm just suggesting that it wasn't specifically desired, even if it didn't have been set a minimum financial threshold for the participation. In this regard I have referred to the fact that such investors who wanted to buy tens or hundreds of millions of dollars - now I don't know all these examples, I haven't seen the intervention in itself - were actually excluded from the general invitation. They were not being assigned. They were actually treated like public investors. I'm not in any way criticizing it, I'm just recollecting that in that round they were almost evicted, we can say. In this context, you might ask yourself, " Was there any reason to do so on this road? ' But I truly respect the viewpoint of those who say they should have been some minimum participation. There's a perfectly valid view in this discussion, but I think this is the main explanation. I'm not going into a definition of qualified investors. It has been referred to here in the discussion that there is a law code, and they all need to be listed at the Sentencing Bank. I believe that, by the way, all are acting in accordance with the terms of the material and all the events of the sale, there are no decisions made at the Bankisar County, which are now being maintained. - Thank you again for an excellent and objective discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u83	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this passage. We often fall into a talk, and then the focus is lost. I want to go back to this little party, because there's a lot of talk there's no price for 50 billion bucks. An object. There was, however, a price for 11 million. K. An object. Eleven million. K. this price, the 94,000, can be considered back several weeks of business in the market at a market, where such trades were made at market prices. We are talking about regular activity in some days of 3 million to 7 million parts, 32 ◯75 of that 11 billion. K. Worldwide business takes place every day around the bank. It is not justified in giving these agents a discount from the proposal. That wasn't what was being said, and the posing that there was no minimum in this campaign makes me feel like a certain piece of butter, because people just assumed that if you were giving off the market value of the bank, it would be done for a good reason. So I would like to ask that question to the highest level. Financial Minister: What kind of sales advisory network can be found if they are to be consulted by every professional investor in the country that owns 11 billion? K. to buy? I wondered, " Have I been able to contact all the people in Iceland?'And I would also like to ask the highest question. A minister will take advantage to find out who got a call that evening and why.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u84	A respectable president. I think it's a bit of a twist, taking the possible lowest offer, and saying, "It was a market price for this offer. We are here talking about the implementation of the huge auction, where one principle was to be a general principle, an equality to all. However, it is made evident here that it could have simply begun taking all the offers that would come in and just start eating down the bid, and then people would have been sharing in a pledge. At the same time, under such an arrangement, we would have had a club control over how much property a person would receive and the person who offered the highest authority under such an arrangement would just have everything he wanted. But we did not want to carry out such an invitation, and neither did we. The current approach, and we have been referring to today's debate that has been recognized, is based on demand and ideas about the price of a large holding object, ultimately there is a price to meet the target. There is a price available for all who cross the threshold; that is, qualifying and having offered sufficiently to meet the requirements. Then, when we receive more information from the Bank Office, I assume that there were different rules of decline by type of investors or by investors that employed, where they have been more inclined to stand longer on their investment than others, just as was meant in the tender tender tender tenders that I was referring to last year. I hope that answers the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u85	A respectable president. I'm sorry to admit that this doesn't exactly answer the question. No one's talking about the price in this context. This process was advertised on the basis of the long - term receiving of large, powerful investors in this process. We don't know how many people bought 11 million. K. It's quite a coincidence that we know this because there were three people who were inside. We have no idea how many of these little agents got a call and who didn't. Based on the reports received - and this is not confirmed, and that's why this needs to be straightened out - it seems unclear who got such a phone call. Well, it just needs to be straightened out if it's not suspicious, with information, because it's all on the surface, because it's not okay for stories like that to come along after public service. I also put this in context to the fact that there's no one talking about taking the highest price at all. But weren't the pensions good enough for the state? I'm going to see an explanation for why large, powerful investors were significantly reduced to possible occurrence of this 11 billion. K. Long-term investors. There has been no clear explanation for the outcome. I'm just going to throw this out because I'm giving myself the will to be informed about this matter, because these questions must arise, and there's every reason to prove who's been called, why, why, why, why certain people were disabled, because if nothing here is putting them all on the table. When selling public property, it can't be said that it went well. If there's any doubt, he's there, and it's not okay for this kind of sale.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u86	A respectable president. Yes, because of the scope of this invitation, the Bank Office was on its side with a variety of advisers. It is natural to work with counselors who are likely to produce and cooperate to increase the demand for the invitation. The nature of the problem depends very much on the content of the network, the company list and, what to say, the contribution of the individual adviser to the extent to which they can throw the Internet in this brief period of time from the start of the invitation to the end. Everyone in their hands can see that the Bank Office itself cannot be running such a business relationship from their own office. Hence, the Bank Management Board, on the task of inducing the demand, is entirely dependent on these colleagues and is sure to be able to explain how it went. But it sounds to me that everything we've been through has been able to produce a demand that was, as I say, beyond what we've seen in comparable invitations elsewhere. This is one of the biggest invitations of Iceland, and it happens in a short time, there is a lot of good for us to do this in this way, although Anion Bank had a similar approach at its time. But I'm sure it's not that it's been achieved in all the investors and/or anyone who would agree to be a suitable investor. But it would, in any case, be in the account of the counselors, who were given the special role of producing as the highest demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u87	President. Just to make it clear, the financial committee experts came and said that in such an arrangement as the second sale, it would be no wonder to give a discount, something around this discount, but I'm not going to make any comments about it. However, that requirement applies to certain rules that those who receive the discount need to behave according to standards. What demands are placed on these investors to be permanent or long - term owners? Clearly, there is something to be explained. The other is, like, the highest. A minister here says it sounds like the Bank Office would choose a few advisers and say: "One, two and now, you can call all your friends, just get through the phone and start calling the first, second and third, or send e-mails to everyone. Then what happens. I don't know. It doesn't sound so exciting to me that this is the greatest export of Iceland's history. I don't know about anyone else in this councilroom. I'm not so much: wow, that was great. That was a great job, few of our friends to call all their acquaintances to see if they can't buy 11 million or more. I look forward to seeing more because there is little adventure about the sale and the explanation of some bank office in a report that doesn't seem too much to explain or answer. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They're like this, what are you supposed to say, where you say things, but there's no content, it's just the words.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u88	A respectable president. It's true to bear in mind that we're taking step two, and we took another way at the beginning with the general invitation and the initial registration of the letters, and I thought it had worked out well. Even though it was. A senator has long criticized the price of that output and suggests that the letters were greatly raised during registration, and then I believe that it is well stated that it was only in line with what happens in similar cases. Then we go this way now to achieve a large amount of what I believe is an acceptable price to the State. This is an enormous amount of Icelandic prenuptials, and all of this happens in one day. Now, it's nice to remember that there are other ways of doing this, but we could have tried to use the market and say, "We're going to hurt it out through the market, so we'll always take what's available for every time in the market, and we'll have someone put it out like this. " It also has its own negative properties and can stop prices at the bank if it is known that there is a constant and powerful offer side to the State. It would also have been possible to return to the general invitation with a registration description. Experience shows that this usually lowers the price of the export. Many begin to play the game of cutting off letters and then plan to get power into the invitation. It is not a perfect way either. But if you look at the overall results in this case, I feel that our goals have been reached. The following are questions about the exact implementation of the export, the brief time open the outing process, and I'm sure that this is answered, and we're getting a better explanation from the Bank Office. I've called for data that are yet to come. [[The president calls.]] But there won't be any lack that I'll float them as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u89	President. How does that sound, so I'll make it up to you, or something like that? I'm just gonna say that about the sale of Arion's bank where it was, like the highest. A minister quoted earlier, an increase of 18% that those who were selling must have beaten themselves to the toes after a long time, lost there by a small sum, since as everyone who came before a body board to explain this arrangement described it as a normal increase after such a primal invitation of about 5 to 10 percent. That would be an acceptable conclusion for everyone. Less, but it's not good for buyers, let alone if it drops. If higher, it becomes worse and worse for the segregators, obviously. So those who sold at Arion Bank and the prices then rose by 18% must have said, "We just lost a little bit of money there. " We're talking about 19% right away before Iceland Bank, and up to 60%, almost, over the months thereafter. It's not just unfortunate. That was 2530 billion. That's much, much more than unfortunate. So I find it interesting that those who stood at the offer, the Ministry, the Bank Office, and others, just come and say, against everything that everyone should see is obvious, that it was a great sale. It's not, not when the difference in price is so great. There may be an increase of 51⁄210%, that's only fine, and at the second offer there may be a 5% discount in terms of the conditions for buyers. [[The president calls.]] It's just fine. But once we get into these amounts, a 60% increase, almost a bit, something's wrong. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-30-60.u90	A respectable president. So it's very clear, I never said it was too bad the letters went up after the registration, or during the months afterwards, just not at all. I believe the invitation has been very successful, and it's only positive that the property has gone up. Let's remember that these are the letters we just sold right now that we're talking about raising. In fact, I have to say just as it is that if we had stood here a year ago and tried to figure out what we could sell in 117 early 2022, there would have been some optimism, for example. Anion bank was much lower in value at the time. But I don't think it's unfair to compare the trend with the development of Arion Bank at the price of a US bank. It's a standard, the price change. Here is one point that has been small in the discussion today, but it is that the state is still going to sell some possessions, and it is important that the message succeeds in the way that prices will not be lost immediately following the completion of the invitation. The general agreement is that it would be a failure and not a failure to attract investors or interest the next time the government is selling. It is much better and better for the state's final ownership and further sales to develop something up - to - date. The actual development of the few days since this campaign is not dramatic, it is in all context, I think, just very normal. There is still considerable uncertainty about international markets that we will see how this will work out.
