ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u1	Borist has received a letter from the vice president of the Archduke Party of the People, Ásthildur Þórsdóttir, that Sæland Gaand, 7th. Smokev.S., can't do any congregational work in the near future. Therefore, Helga Þórðardóttir, who is a 2nd deputy of the district's list, gives birth to the 1st Lipster, Wilhelm Wessman, who has announced past death. At the request of the president, the national government has issued an announcement based on 1 mg. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! A vote to Helga Þórðardóttir. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been called upon to discuss the vote and the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u2	V.E.G. President. Hv. The board of directors and patrols gathered for a meeting to celebrate the vote and election of Helga Þórðardóttir and suggest that it be confirmed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u3	The Commission and monitoring committee recommends a monoclonal with the confirmation of Helga vote and considered it approved without a vote if no protest is moved. Helga Þórðardóttir has not previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, so the commitment to the Constitution is to be signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u4	Helga Þórðardóttir has signed her commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to work at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u5	A respectable president. We're here just talking about the gap between what ministers say in news class and what's going on here at the council. V.E.G. Intensification calls for higher resource expenditures and measures to compression in the marine environment. V.E.G. The minister of culture wants to help the house and put whale taxes on the banks. Now it's the highest. Financial Ministers also begin to recognize the need for specific measures to protect the most efficient groups from inflation. But then what happens here at the council? There has not been a single government case, one state of Congress, which reflects this declaration, not one case involving the economy of households because of rising inflation and growing in wax, nothing. There's nothing like that in the Government Constitution, either. The program here at the council simply does not reflect the situation in the community, so I challenge a president to harm this useless government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u6	President. Our time here at the council and on committees is very important, and it is very important that the government set out a good schedule on which matters it will set before the council with good notice so that time is set aside for preparation and all that. Otherwise, as has gone on, during this term period and also during the last term, where the government's Constitution did not last, it simply allows for a series of events. This means that we cannot plan how to address matters, both here in the Hall of Congress and in committees. There's a big deal before the end of a council that everyone knows can't be finished, that's just not a chance. It is simply not time, real frescotic time, to review all applications and do things. [[The president calls.]] The Constitution of the government thus matters, and I want to direct it to the highest level. First thing to do is that it's going to last.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u7	A respectable president. What I'd like to discuss today is the set of rural congregations and the rules of financing from the State. The wealth is very important to the communities in the country, but it is clear that tax payments are a large part of the income of many rural communities, especially smaller ones. Many, not all, smaller rural areas depend entirely on funds and any swings in financial payments to rural society can make it virtually impossible for them to perform the legal tasks that they have been given legally under the terms of the government through its contracts. The larger rural areas also have rich interests from the constant payments of the equation and the fluctuations in their payments have caused problems for them in business. The payments for rural society from an equation are accompanied by the taxpayers of the state. The more successful government and income are, the more the funds that flow into the fund and come into rural distributions. When things are worse, e.g. in recent years, whether in the collapse and after, or in the wake of, Covid and its compensatory efforts, decrease the total income of the state's income, reduces the amount of money to the balance fund and thereby to the rural society. The problem, however, is that it takes so much to run, e.g. School, nursery, and the affairs of the disabled, whether well in the state or not. I encourage this to be revised concomitantly with a review of the iconical work of the equation so that better stability will be achieved in the expense of the fund and the prescientity of rural society will be increased at any given time, so that the rural communities will know sooner and better what the financial resources will be each year from the state through the County Fund of rural society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u8	Mr. President. The updated Constitution of the government minister, introduced yesterday, found that there must be a number of issues that must be allowed to wait for. The government had ambitious goals, but it is not realistic that everything will be achieved successfully and in due course to face it as it has been presented here today. One of the things that, unfortunately, will not be successful at this assembly is the health minister's bill on illegal consumption doses. I grieve that the matter has not worked out right now. Rather than anything else, there is a matter of health care that would matter to a large number of individuals and is essential. The matter did not come to the council today, so there is no basis for discussing it materially here and now. I have no reason to cross the top. A health minister when he says that he does not stand to put the matter to sleep but decided to work better on the bill and to set up a team for that purpose. Experience from other countries should be used as an example, so it is positive that the staff will cooperate with The Global Commission on Drug Policy and have access to experts who work similar jobs in other countries and then be involved in the international cooperation that has given a good but Icelandic reality. President. I want to use this opportunity to say that I sincerely hope that this staff, the Ministry, and the highest. A minister will make good use of the time until the next council to control this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u9	Mr. President. In the news last night, there was talk of Kappus Road and conditions that have developed there, and I want to make it a topic of publicity here. We have been discussing increasing international flights through airfields other than the Cheflavík Airport, e.g. correspondent in the north and east. A pair of them is the very marketing of the Diamond Ring, which, of course, especially falls as Whites. Of course, the investment that we made was a large part of it. In addition, there is an enormous amount of structure to take place in Axura, including Axura, U.S.A. In the fish fire. There we are multiplying the production. In addition, Rifos, the daughter - in - law of Fishing East, is building a breeding station at Kopasker and others in Lon, Köldur. There has become a lot of work here, and of course schools and other activities. What I'd like to do is that about this road is so-called a "G" rule that I think we need to face the fact that we're not going to work out when we're making these projects that Fallifos Road is going on. Of course, it is not only a huge savings on the highways of the country when heavy transport can take a two - hour shorter trip with its cargo, as well as a security issue, as and of course, that we would like the traveling services in the scattered areas to sit at the same table as the golden ring mentioned here. I encourage the development of the road to reexamine the services that are set out there as well as that of the Environment and Transport Committee on these issues, where we need to focus.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u10	A respectable president. At lunchtime, the team published new numbers from the Haust Room, which show how housing support has taken place in the past decade from the largest income - priced groups to the three largest tenths. The results are striking. The government has progressively transferred funds from the growth reform system into resources that enable people to use their own tax - free income to cover mortgages. This sounds very innocent, but this is a significant change in our welfare society, for the vast majority of these taxes, more than 30 billion dollars. of 2015, the new highest income of 30% of the country's population. Half the resources flow to the highest rate of 10% in the country. How often have we listened to executives to the importance of priorities? What hypocrisy. Growing reforms used to reduce income, and young people were replaced by 30 billion dollars. tax returns to individuals in the upper part of the income, 30 billion that go mainly to people over 40, despite the problems of housing among young people and low income. The genius of this process is that it is 30 billion that the government does not have to be responsible for its future income. Each one of these 30 billion dollars. loss of income in the future? Yes, the young people who were the highest. The secretary of finance is always talking about relying on the so - called payment of state funds for future debt, the same young people, and having to make a great deal of debt for the first estate because of the government's targeted policy over the past decade, to direct capitals from those who are truly in need of general resources for a housing market that would pave up prices. A community of such devices is driving us out of control because of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u11	A respectable president. The General concluded that by the year 2030, the public will be living in a safe and efficient health service in which all citizens are secure. This policy was adopted by the General during the last term. This weekend we received news of the tragic loss of a child's parents who got sick from Covid, far from the largest urban population in the country. Despite repeated parental attempts and death, the child was not getting necessary health care. I'm sorry for my family. However, I have been amazed by the reaction of the forwarding party's representatives. The head of the advance party said that the advance was to try to ensure that people can choose farms and try to ensure basic security services. The head of the welfare committee, what? In a similar vein, a member of the parish, in a rather peculiar interview last night in Castlight, pointed out that where there was no service, the medical department could be called, i.e. that would be a phone connection. After the almost relentless U.S. headquarters office in the government, no cell - phone contact can be trusted or the health - care system can be trusted. Everyone understands that there can't be a doctor on every street, but it's absolutely minimal that the system is built up that way that a health - trained person who can't get to the place or has no knowledge of the subject has something to look for. Governments are to create safe infrastructure, but they obviously have not. If the advance team is serious about living all over the country, if the forward party is serious about its reality in the government, they'll also have to accept their responsibility. They take everything at once in health, community, and communication. I will say to the forward party, "Prepare for a good people, and work for a nation."
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u12	A respectable president. Now is the end, but with it, fighting people want to draw attention to endomites. V.E.G. A health minister has reported work on improved services to those with the disease. That's a good thing, but I'd like to ask him to move on with his work. A large number of women are not given adequate health care. They are in pain both physically and spiritually, and they can no longer wait for speculations in the management and working groups. I hope to the highest. Ministers change this evil situation and that reforms he has promised will become revolutions. Nothing less than that. And since I've started discussing the health issues where the list of projects is long, the situation is that hundreds or thousands of people are waiting for surgery on the lens, a simple operation that will improve quality of life. The same is true of replacement operations. We know that the medical and the system is being examined, and we know that the role of the Hospital is being defined. But the solution to this problem is simple: These actions need to be offered no later than yesterday. This has been done successfully in the past, and it will be the result now if the Icelanders want to stop traveling abroad to obtain life - sustaining health care. If we do not let our actions speak of serving patients first, we are standing out of old - fashioned thinking in the way of a functioning health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u13	A respectable president. During the election campaign in the fall, I spoke extensively about the problem that the Gardening School at the Smoke in Elfy was facing. I met both students and employees. I also met many people with interest in the green sector and others at school. After these conversations, my conviction that, in fact, there is only one way to solve the knot is to set up an independent gardening school to smoke in Alfus. For myself, I do not see the success of performing my gardening studies at the Southland High School of Polyglobal, with full respect for the wonderful institution. It is simply because such a decision amounts to the ending of the National Gardening School on Smoke, with a serious impact on all farming in the country as well as the entire industry. So I see no other way than to rebuild an independent gardening school on the smokes, where there will be a special trade and staff education in gardening and related secondary classes at high school, re-education and training courses for professionals and public and research and experiments in cooperation with university and institutions. In other words, smoke will be home to the green sector, a high level of education and research, climate, environment, nature protection, forestry, agriculture and innovation in many areas. Let us not waste time wondering about the fact that the unity of the State's Gardening School and the University of Agriculture failed at the time. The unity was mistaken, as was the case. In view of this, I'm part of a conquistador proposal that I will submit in the next few days, and I expect the members of Congress to support my study in Iceland's garden for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u14	A respectable president. Already, in another hundred refugees from Ukraine sought refuge in the area from the start of the invasion and increased by day. It is expected that as many as 2,000 people from Ukraine will be received in the following weeks and months. Some will stay here temporarily, while others will remain here for a long time. Already, a large number of refugees have been invited to a home in Reykjavík of the urban population, private residents, extra space companies, or houses to hire. Above the head is the primary requirement and is not available in the serious housing shortage in Reykjavík. Refugees from Ukraine desperately need extensive assistance, especially children who have experienced difficult experiences and are in great shock. It is important that war - torn Ukrainian children can be received in a decent way. The government needs to provide suggestions on how to strengthen the institutions of the state that will offer refugees, especially children, varied services, and assistance. If you look to Reykjavík, when it comes to basic services for children, it is not a good thing. Long waiting lists for all kinds of help are in Reykjavík. A large number of refugees are now in great need, and these people must not fail. At the same time, it cannot be expected that those who have been waiting for weeks and even months for needed services, children, microplies, the poor, the homeless, and the elderly will be pushed aside, and still wait. A similar situation is at the institutions of the state, such as BUGL and Development and Behavioral Station. Hundreds of children wait for services to be served in these institutions and others who care for children in distress. In recent decades, the state has given its members a number of social projects, but responsibility has to be followed by financial support.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u15	A respectable president. We've been talking about health issues. Here comes one senator after another, and all of us are talking about the same matter. There's no money in the medical system. We were here yesterday with a very beautiful and that a health minister was found, an ambitious concierge, but there's no money for her. I'd like to introduce a matter that affects our health care. I listened the morning to an interview at the Wolf's Hospital, where a husband was sharing his wife's dealings with the health care professionals. She had been doing her work, and she had already tried everything herself, both hot and cold, in an effort to reduce her own work that could not be done. This person is 58 years old and has never had a family doctor, she has been well - off, and she went to the health care provider. There she learned that she had myositis, and she received painkillers, and she was sent home. It went in three, four, five, and it wasn't over yet. Everyone said the same thing she always did, and she went home hurting and always got worse and worse. She had chest pain and armpit pain, and she was never put in another study, just sent home by medication. The sixth time, she leaves, and then she had quite enough, knocked on the table and said, "You have to do something." Then she asks: " Can you imagine what this is? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Yeah, I can think of cancer. And then she hit the table and she said, "I'm not leaving here until I get my cut, or you know what's wrong with me. [[The president calls.]] At last, after nearly six months, she gets her first photo, suffering for nearly six months. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then cancer develops, and it was called small cell carcinomas that develop very fast. [[The president calls.]] She's dead today, 58 years old.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u16	The President reminds me of why. Every session is to be conducted by members of the Parliament, two minutes for each session.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u17	A respectable president. At this time, the body of Congress agrees with the bills that increase the cost to-dos of rural society by means of the cost. As an ex-concommunicator, it is necessary to discuss only what is involved when these bills pass through without the members of Congress fully realizing the potential impact on individual rural groups. Many rural communities have problems with their largest task and simply fail to see the need to handle it despite their best wishes. The number and extent of projects transferred to rural areas are becoming a major impact on their economic situation and are even being too much for them and especially on smaller rural areas. Civil authorities across the country have repeatedly pointed to this development and its negative aspects. The European Union has also identified this trend, but recently the relationship made a summary of the country's financial status. It predicts that they will be fired with a great peak of debt, with a combined increase in debt. The cost-elevating team per year is pay and related to labour costs, but rural society has been forced to increase the number of employees and increase the management of the management organisations in an effort to achieve an increased level of activity. Thus, the cost of paying becomes an ever higher proportion of rural expenses. At the same time, educational costs have increased with new regulations and requirements in recent years as well as with other projects. Special Services, MPA, separate school, cafeteria, etc. True, there are positive projects and important developments, but the cost of combined has become big for the rural population. A respectable president. It is important that the body of Congress be aware of the actual impact of his decisions on the financial situation of the rural society, along with the secondary costs of those decisions. Therefore, I will present a matter in the following days, which will deal with a discussion on the effect of a prime project on the economy of rural society in the report. By doing so, members of Parliament can work and make decisions with full awareness of such influences.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u18	A respectable president. In many places, a pot is broken in an Icelandic real estate market, and as a deputy in a government stand, I have raised my expectations of being able to correct everything that has gone wrong there, a highly balanced expectations. However, I have proposed a synonym, which involves a certain compensation for a team of tenants. And since I will only sit here this week and unlikely I can follow her, I'd like to use this field to introduce her to the House of Congress. Today, rent prices are high, and rent safety is limited. Many tenants pay much higher rent than the mortgage payments for similar housing. We all know it's preferable in Iceland to own more than rent. People living in their own homes usually increase their possessions far more than renters. No wonder over 90% of tenants say they want to buy property! The proposal is that tenants who can demonstrate secure payment in a laboured labour agreement 12 months back or more will meet the payment rate at the same level as they have been paying. That creditors will be allowed to view people's actual means of payment rather than just those based on standards other than their family's actual consumption. It is, in fact, completely incomprehensible that people who already have a down payment and show a month after a month that they can well live under payment, can't get paid for less money than they already pay. The refusal of people to reduce their pay loads by purchases and, as a result, are held in a rented market against their will and against their interests. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u19	A respectable president. Last February there were 10,211 people looking for a job search. Unemployment was mostly in the Southnes, or 9.2%, about 5% in the capital area, and in the region. Employers have noted that there are a wide range of job advertisements, but I believe that we can do better and affect it by thinking outside the box. Through the effort, jobs began to develop a new style of work in Smokejanestown, where the Council was a employment server, which in a few months helped over 100 people to get to work. The employment agency took the initiative to cooperate with the workforce and employment life in the area, telephoned people, connected them with the workplace, from a conversation about motivations and abilities, and followed them to work where the government's counterproduction followed for a certain time. In addition, there were another tens of individuals who were able to make their own renovations by aCTIVE SUBSTANCE and therefore in the correct place of the system. By enforcing a co-work, such as this, and making it a general practice, we will create an environment that increases opportunities for employment and activities, but activity has a tremendous impact on well - being, so much work. We can do even better, and I wonder if the treatments offered in the pandemic were short - term solutions or if they were actually able to produce changes in the shape of the future, as this project shows. A respectable president. I'd like to encourage the highest. Social and workforce minister to learn about the work being mentioned here, and to wonder about it, including with the head of the employment agency, whether there are opportunities to promote such cooperation for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u20	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, at the high Council's proposal for Congress, it was distributed here to establish a national law to continue Iceland's Member States' activities at the European Union. As everyone here knows, the General Assembly of 2009 agreed to initiate multiannual discussions with the EU. Then the decision was not made, and I'm going to say here that I agree with the highest authority. The prime minister who spoke of this speaker yesterday felt that it was a mistake not to do so then. But I don't draw the same conclusions from the position as the highest. Prime Minister. The National Assembly of the Icelanders is expected to trust voters for this decision and be subject to them in the National Remuneration, whether or not to adopt the contract for the EU member case. A national agreement would break the European situation for nearly a decade here. V.E.G. President. The European Parliament has never agreed to a proposal to retract the Member State's application, and it may be possible that the European Commission will consider the loss of the discussion despite the writing of the letter at the highest level. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson. It is, therefore, easy to pick up our discussion. Why would the government groups fear so much to ask the nation if we should continue to adopt the desire for the part of the meeting? What's Fearing? Why are the government groups trapped in the past and station in Europe when the future is imminent and all the nations in Europe are reevaluating in principle their safety and national interests, sufficient to mention Germany, Sweden, and Finland in that matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u21	Mr. President. As we have tragically been reminded here in the words of several members of the council, Europe's settlements and settlements have completely sailed to the sea. It is clearly seen by a review of a series of decades of structural development and the system of tweezers that has been run here based on leaping into some kind of emergency package, emergency or something, when there is a lack of material in certain areas, and by using such names as Western aid, Freight based, and so on. This can be illustrated in a graphic way that may be made clear by the fact that we are becoming one of the more urban states in Europe, Iceland, one of the more cities in Europe. I'm not sure that's what Iceland generally wants to see. We can see from our neighbors from the Norwegians that there are designed to form in the Oslo region about that. 25% of the population and the Norwegian population are satisfied and have taken considerable measures to cope with this trend. However, if we take the force zone of Reykjavík, which I'm going to allow myself to define here between the two White Rivers, there are now about to live in about 85% of Icelanders - 85% of Icelanders Strong measures need to be taken if this is to be turned around or at least stopped, and this will not be done by continued microdose therapy. We need to unite in this hall to take that development seriously, otherwise the country will not survive.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u22	President. It was interesting to hear an answer. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, asking why. paritaprevir The President of the United States, Logi Einarsson, last night at an unprepared question period. Asked if it would support the national agreement on continued communication with the European Union this year, they would probably say that they would contribute to such a vote, but only if there were a clear majority of the members of the Parliament for involvement in the relationship. That's how it's answered. The prime minister is full of weak excuse. The Secretary of Treasure Bjarni son of Benediktsson for betraying a promise he made to his voters about the same legal matter before the 2013 election, where he spoke of political inconceivability. The impossible was that he and the head of the Annexe Party were opposed to the EU; hence, it was impossible to keep a promise made, allowing something as insignificant as national to take on this huge interest in the whole nation. The highest answer. Yesterday's prime minister is particularly interesting because for the first time in more than a decade, more people claim to be involved in the European Union than are opposed. Government leaders therefore feel that national pay is only practical and practical if the majority of the people have the same position as they are asked of. In fact, the secretary of finance has gone so far as to call all discussions about this big change in attitude towards EU participation in war conditions in Europe, thus minimizing the increased will of voters to support the cooperation of Iceland with other peace - loving countries in the continent. President. As far as the Piranha and I are concerned, the nation has the right to express its will, and therefore we, in cooperation with Community development and development, have proposed that it be provided with a national payment for continued international negotiations with the EU by the end of the year. Of course, open, educational, and objective discussions need to be made. If the position on the start of the matter is found, it should be done absolutely no matter what individual members or groups may feel about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u23	President. I'd like to discuss the President's conference board in a slightly larger context, which has to do with the regular procedures. It involves a general conference board, especially the President's conference board, because the rules of conduct of the fixed committee are adopted on the Committee to Presidency. It is now obvious that the current Council procedures, i.e. The Synod committees were not approved according to the form. Therefore, I would like to court the Ministers and chairmans of the fixed committees to use caution in applying existing procedures published on the council website, since they were not approved. It is absolutely clear, in accordance with all the strict technical requirements we make for such decision-making, that the dog is buried there. There are some material things that are different in the protocols on the Internet, appear to be the procedure of regular committees, and the earlier procedures. When there is a question about which rules to follow, we follow the old ones.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u24	The president wants to see to it that it's a matter of course. A member of the Sanhedrin went along with this committee, and not all agree. A senator of his interpretation. I hope that case will lead to its outcome at the company of prime committees in a short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u25	A respectable president. Not everyone agrees, says the highest. President. Of course, it is shocking not to be alone with the Council of the Presidency of the Generals to see if the rules of conduct for the Council of the Council have been agreed properly, if they actually went into effect. There is a very bad uncertainty about the rules we should follow here. There are doubts about the lack of proper consultation with members of Congress who certainly need to submit to these rules. These are the guidelines set out at the council on how we work together in committees, what the memory rights, the rights of the more part, the manner in which the meeting is announced, how long we have to book, how long the smaller part has to write minor opinion. All of this is of utmost importance to members of the council, and it is disturbing to know whether these are legitimate rules. I never saw them before they were approved. [[The president calls.]] It must be okay to make revised that the entire council will have its opinion on the activities of the Synod committees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u26	The president does not intend to discuss this in a material way, but he reiterates what has been said to comment. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, was taken for the presiding committee, and they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u27	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying what was said here on the rules of conduct. This has been unclear to me since I started working here at the council. Another thing I wanted to come up here and bring to the attention of the president is that I sit in the back of the hall and I was trying to listen to it at any given moment. The senators were saying, and it went bad because of the noise out there. I understand that in the council, everyone's having an ugly time and a freedom to listen to what's going on that's hard to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u28	The president has every reason to respond to these comments, asking that members of the council take care of the house and others who are traveling around it, not to be distracted in the vicinity of the Assembly Hall. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u29	President. In fact, the president says that there is no common interpretation of this point on the Presidency Committee. That's the notes I'm making with the rules of conduct that are currently being carried out. There is no doubt that the format was not adhered to when the rules of conduct were agreed. There is nothing that requires any exchange of thought in this regard. It's not that complicated. But this is exactly why procedures are important. When problems arise, you can see how to handle matters, what steps to take when writing a committee opinion, how much time the lesser part takes to return a committee party. Sometimes it is important that we try to push matters through the council, which is important. How important it is that decisions are made properly! [[The president calls.]] And that's what I'm making a comment to. It is clear that this decision was not made correctly. [[The president calls.]] There is nothing to argue about and to say that there are some who have other opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u30	However, the president has to tell us that no one who sat on the committee meeting last summer, August, where this decision was made, feels the same way. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson in this regard. However, the matter will be discussed in the Presidency Committee, which will lead to its resolution, including On the basis of the information acquired and will be obtained at this meeting of the presiding committee during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u31	A respectable president. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to the highest degree. Secretary of State, also a developing co-worker, on the effect of Covid-19 on developing cooperation. Western countries, such as Iceland, used vast limits on their citizens to cope with the spread of Covid while the pandemic raged most in our part of the world. In the light of today's vaccines, we battled to vaccinate everything and everyone, first by one, then two and finally three doses. Some Western countries have even started the fourth campaign of vaccination. At the same time, health care professionals in Africa have not even been fully vaccinated, and only about 19% of the African population has received one Covid-19 injection. While we breathe light, over the most difficult and economic conditions, there is a faster and faster hope than we ever hoped, the situation is very different in developing countries. The disaster just started, and the third or fourth dose of Covid vaccine is not a major concern. While Western countries have undergone massive rescue measures for people and businesses, there are no infrastructures in developing countries to meet citizens in this way. As the share of development cohesion is frequently examined from GDP, there is concern over Western donations for development in a legitimate way. In our developing countries, the living conditions and survival of people are largely dependent on self - basic farming. It included the people. adapting to curfews and various limitations and terminations. I couldn't help but think of all the children of the many families I met in my visits to Africa, families that feed their children with homework, and small fishing that they sold in markets, all of which were suddenly shut down. How did these families survive the pandemic, or perhaps they did not? In these lands, the reality of many children is that the only hot meal of the day is the school meal. In Uganda, schools were closed for two years because of Covid. Children who could, especially children of poor parents with low levels of rural education, are most affected by such results, but in the poorest countries, children cannot really be classed unless they are under poor conditions and poorer conditions, and school closures mean that many children never return to school. Speaking of vaccinations: At the beginning of the pandemic, experts warned against the risk that support for other essential vaccinations would be overwhelmed by the overemphasis of the Covid vaccination. The situation in developing countries is, however, that in many of them life - threatening infectious diseases are endemic. It was not surprising, then, that during the days, polio, which has not been discovered on the continent of Africa for several years, flared up in Malawi and me. We also know that Covid has affected the inhabited earth that general vaccinations have been combined. The economic prospects of the world's poorest nations are increasing, and hunger is increasing. A number of undernourished people worldwide are approaching 900 million, and there are millions of famines. However, the use of Covid-19 activities has had a major impact on food safety. Because of the pandemic, for the first time, there were more than 20 years, and over 100 million people were added to those who were already poor. In developing countries, there has also been a horrible development on human rights. We are watching panic as we speak of violations of children and of domestic violence that have erupted in the pandemic. Yet, these groups have a word of caution. In our countries, there's been a massive setback, including In equality, and was not of high station to fall. A child's marriage and premature pregnancy of teenage girls have, for example. The increase is tremendous. A respectable president. Now that the waves are lying down, there are many things we have to recognize, not only here with us, but also in the countries that depend on us, in our developing countries. I think I know that the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is more aware than many of the afterlife, of the development that needs to be done. How fascinating it will be to learn what it has become in this enormously important series of subjects!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u32	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Mist Mit Einarsdóttir for calling for a special discussion on development cooperation and Covid-19. It's one side of the epidemic, huge, which we've only talked about very little. In the coming years and decades, the world's response to the pandemic will no doubt be examined. And with regard to the poorest territory in the world, there has been an enormous increase in distress, and in some sense it may become the largest cost the world's population pays for the epidemic. The countries that could afford it could shut down economic projects to reduce the risk of infection, but the consequences continue worldwide and are, unfortunately, the most decisive in countries that were at least to be affected. Overall, it is clear that the pandemic has had a tremendous impact on developing countries and international development. At first, a discussion on the direct effects of the world's attention focused mainly on transmission rates and rapid growth. However, it was soon realized that the indirect effects, economic and social, would be a heavy burden to developing countries to carry, in a short period of time and longer, than the consequences of the Covid-19 illness. These indirect effects include due to reactions in Western countries to the epidemic. Thus, the World Bank has said that the results of the last three years of a pandemic battle against poverty have actually been wiped out by the effects of the pandemic. The bank estimates that by his first year, 97 million were added to those living below the poverty line. It is obvious that this is an extremely serious and extremely tragic setback. Then the UNICEF says that the effect of the Covid-19 epidemic was the greatest threat to the well - being of children during the 75-year history of the Agency and that the epidemic has forced 150 million children into many poverty. There was an increase in children who did not receive conventional childhood vaccinations in 2020 by 3.7 million. This, of course, is not the result of an epidemic illness but the actions of governments around the world in order to prevent infection. This is not just something that is thought - provoking but that is very sad and something we need to learn from. In Uganda and Malawi, the effects of the epidemic were particularly on the fields of equality, such as the driving force. A senator came in. There has been an increase in the incidence of juvenile couples and teenage pregnancies, as well as sexual violence. The World Bank has spoken of a 25% increase in domestic violence in Uganda, and in a Malawin community of nearly 6,000 children's marriages were recorded during the period of school closing. In Iceland's development partnerships, an epidemic was immediately emphasised on dealing with the situation rapidly and effectively and was quickly used for the Covid-19 related projects, both in international development and humanitarian cooperation as well as in the two-sided cooperation countries. True, the pandemic has increased the challenge of developing cooperation with us, but despite this, our assignments in Malawi and Uganda have been mainly organized. In Uganda, government responses from the beginning were very decisive, and society was virtually closed for a time. Schools finally opened in January after less than two years. The consequences of these finals are very strong and serious, and it is known that a substantial percentage of the children who have not been studied for the pandemic will not return to them. One thing that was done in Uganda in connection with reanimation of school was bringing an improved level of hygiene. Iceland participated in 600 schools. Then Iceland supports school meal projects in Uganda, but it's important to get students back to school, but not all have returned. In Malawi, schools were closed for nine months. Malawian children received, including with the support of Iceland, a improved school meal during completing school, along with a monthly allowance for parents. There were then water systems with running water and handwashing stations for 12,000 students and teachers in 120 schools trained in Covid Precautions. The traveling overseer took note of the development of further cooperation in Sierra Leone, which has been fully established in the past few months. We have supported water and hygiene measures for the protection of the epidemic, as well as support for maternity and sex health services, and sexual violence measures. Since the outbreak, the Ministry of State has been working closely with free members of the international community that have carried out assignments and have been successful despite challenges. Sadly, though, our appearance is not good. Poverty and inequities have increased. The debt of developing countries has grown, the need for humanitarian assistance has increased, and increasing food and energy prices due to the Ukraine war will then increase misery worldwide. So there is great need, and it is clear that the need for support for the richer part of the world will grow. It is important for Iceland to shoulder responsibility, and it is important for us to consider this and learn from the consequences of all of this, since there will be more challenges in the future, and there are some things that we might have done differently if we had seen all the consequences.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u33	Mr. President. This is where it rolls. A senator named Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir raised enormous important issues and sheds light on how the rich nations have given priority to themselves, closed their eyes to poverty, inflexible and growing distress, and followed by world warfare. It also acknowledges the highest. Ministers, we've got an increase in emergency and we need to work things out. In view of this, we need and must discuss the involvement of Iceland, the 11 richest of the world's world's 11 richest country, in developing cohesion, because while the centenarian population increases year after year, the price of GDP is 0.35%, and indeed half the goal of the United Nations that we Iceland have expressed is our support. V.E.G. The minister of state allows himself to come up and say that everything has been going according to plan, and that it has to be done better. I guess that means the plan is too ambitious. We must simply make that requirement, as it were. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir came in, shouldering more responsibility in this lawsuit. We have no excuse here for not joining in for a time - appointed goal of reaching these 0.7% because we are not merely putting up with the prospect of poverty, distress, and disaster, but we are - thinking of recent events east of Ukraine - promoting potential wars everywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir You know, Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, for the discussion, and I also thank you very much. Secretary of State for being here with us. In the synopsis adopted in May 2019, for the international development team of Iceland's 2019/2023, it is correctly presented, as it were. paritaprevir The source of the matter was Logi Einarsson, our objective, and the fact that the Icelandic government agrees that industrialized countries are providing up to 0.7% of the nation's income in this matter. The story has to be followed by the fact that the Icelanders have added their daily expenses, but better still, if it's enough, I can agree with that. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson. We're heading to 9 billion in the year 2022 to this class of paintings. Sadly, though, the pandemic has made these countries feel very sorry. The following day, the chief secretary of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, warned that the situation would get worse in view of the war in Ukraine. Sadly, as food production begins to decline with the war, it will take on those who should, in the least of these respects, be affected. The developing nations, so that if possible, they can do better. We've done quite well, but we have to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Senator Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir for bringing this up. The main emphasis and questions are very clear and important, and I kind of expected that we would get answers to them today, but that may not be quite so simple. Covid-19 showed how much difference between countries there really is. Lands in the Western world had two vaccinations before many countries even received a first dose of vaccine. Until late and later, a beautiful promise of vaccine - sharing work was made to be carried out by Western nations. The evidence that the risk for the pandemic has increased greatly is due to the degree of interference with the distribution of vaccines. As it is today, you are also wondering, as long as this inequities is intense and the virus is scraping and scraping in developing countries, whether one day a new version will come out of it all. There are many times when we say it won't be until the whole world we actually step out of this disaster. We in the Gang of the People are constantly thinking about sensitive groups; desperate people, disabled people, children, whether here or in the world. As an ex-president of Children's Bears, Iceland, to six years of age, the children will be thought of and the indirect effects of parents without parents, because their parents have died of Covid, are on guard, and we all know how they can relate to a man dealer. So the situation is tragic, and the situation for Covid in many of these developing countries was terrible for disaster. So we are in even worse situations, and here we certainly need to step in one way or another and help each of us so that one day we can leave that calamity behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u36	Mr. President. Today, the world's worst pandemic of all generations has been going on and on for two years. We have successfully faced this threat here in many ways compared with other nations. Yet, many have had to look after loved ones, and many are experiencing health problems, and unfortunately, more such tragedies are coming. So we need to continue to exercise caution, especially with respect to the life and rights of those who are sick and those who are loved. It is also clear that in spite of severe trauma and ongoing difficulties, most Western nations, the rich nations, have made it easier to pass through the pandemic than the poorest nations. There are many other pressures on the inhabitants of these lands because of sickness, disease, and lack of adequate food security. This is especially true in many African countries, countries that are dependent on development aid are desperately in need of more and more help. The Covid epidemic has caused untold added misery and difficulties for the population of developing countries. This is what we Icelanders in particular need to consider in our quest for help and what is needed most, where we can help as much as possible. Do we need to change our priorities, at least temporarily? In the countries that we have focused most on, in our developing relief countries, where we can do what we can best in view of our strengths or in cooperation with others, the situation is obviously difficult. In Uganda, only 30% of the people are vaccinated for Covid, in Sierra Leone, where there is even more work in preparation, the ratio is 21%, but in Malawi it is only 8%. There is a danger that the world in these countries will be living in a global epidemic, while many nations now hoping to see its end soon and that the full recovery will not take long. This position is something we need to analyze and react.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u37	A respectable president. In 2015 national leaders assembled and set 17 world goals for the year 2030, goals that did not expect us to have a pandemic, goals that would not expect 100 million people to go back to very low, goals that would not be expected for children in 194 countries to miss school, some for up to two years. The debt ratio in developing countries has increased rapidly as governments in these countries are caring for life - saving expenses and often have to choose between saving people, education, or feeding them or caring for climate change. Yes, the pandemic has resulted in an increase in poverty and inexorability and has reduced progress in various fields, often for years, if not decades. As mentioned above, even the money defined for health care in the response to Covid was new, and as a result, there can be a relapse in other diseases and in the health of people around the world. Although countries have raised total funding for development, many countries have cut down long-term projects at the cost of Covid-19 operations. It is important not to give in to short-term reductions that will occur this year and next because the structure of Covid and the reaction is only beginning in developing countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u38	A respectable president. It is urgent to discuss big, important issues, such as this entire context. We must never forget to look outside and discuss how we can do better, how we can use our voice, and how we can assist other nations, our new strengths in certain fields, whether in the field of equality or in the field of knowledge of energy resources and seabeds. Evolution partners are involved, and this must not be left behind when there is a problem at home. Global development contributions adopted in 2020 following the Covid epidemic just to cope with the epidemic's consequences. And, yes, this approach was particularly evident in EU support to other countries compared with OECD figures. Most of the world's budget was developed for routine assistance, but donations were specifically earmarked for the pandemic. It is mainly responsible for health care, humanitarian support, and other measures to ensure increased food security. However, it cannot be denied that at the same time, business ventures and investments have diminished, and the world's poorer countries have suffered. This has made it more difficult for them to build up their infrastructure and react to the economic events of the epidemic, which is the time when governments such as our rich nation, need to give in and provide support for welfare, in the medical sector, within the educational field, and more like climate and green knowledge structure, that part of which we must not forget. All of this can be done, a respectable president, with increased cooperation and the use of cohesion with other alliances, since, of course, we all want to live in the improved world, and that is the responsibility of all of us. We have to be aware of this, and we have to make this clear and direct, and we have to go to this without fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u39	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir for putting the matter on. I hope we all agree that vaccination of adults and children has been an important factor in promoting normal life after Covid-19 and has reduced serious illness and death. Iceland has already played an active part in international efforts to support the development of developing countries against the pandemic. News recently reported that the State Department would defend up to 250 million. K. to support the activities of UNICEF Children's Fund, or UNICEF, to speed up spread and availability of Covid-19 vaccines in the developing countries. I'd like to celebrate. Clearly, Covid-19 will have many consequences in the developing nations. These consequences will prove especially difficult in view of the state of the developed nations. They become material, social, and cultural, and will likely have serious consequences for the health and entire social services of children and families in these countries. According to the United Nations, without action, the proportion of unborn ten - year - olds is expected to increase from 53% to 70%. There is a big concern, considering that prior to the pandemic, 53% of children in low and average income countries were unable to read well enough and did not meet minimum standards for reading and accounting. It is very important that Iceland is fully involved in developing cooperation and is involved in costing vaccine to developing countries. The whole world must deal with this, and now that Western countries have well vaccinated their nations, we in small Iceland must assist developing countries in a variety of ways. It must be in the form of financial contributions, but it must also be through the presentation of our knowledge, e.g. by providing direct assistance to Icelandic experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u40	V.E.G. President. Like the rest of us here, I want to thank the advocate for this important discussion today. The world's end is not over, and perhaps we should use this fine opportunity to examine ourselves over the last two years. It has been in progress since the first moment, since the first vaccine was developed against Covid-19, that none of us could be fully protected from the virus until we were all, not just all of us in Iceland, but humanity. In Iceland, however, this did not stop us from participating in the vaccine race with other rich countries. There were understandable reasons, perhaps reasonable reasons. But when we look back, we also know that we were very close to it. We can only take comfort in the fact that we were not alone in this regard. Oxfam has recently noted that the consequences of this reaction by the rich countries are something that may be called a new species of colonialism. During vaccinations in Western countries, approximately 75% of the population, they cover about 11% of the population in an entire continent called Africa. You see, not all of us share the burden of this epidemic, and we have to face the fact that in order for the CDC to produce real results, much more is needed. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask the highest possible question. Secretary of State is the total donation of Iceland to the COVAAX team. But let us not forget that when all is tested, the most important development team and the development program is to promote the balance of women's freedom, children, men, and women. In fact, the fight against a change in the world is right here, just as it really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u41	A respectable president. Here is an important discussion of the direct and indirect effect of Covid on development cooperation and I want to thank you for that discussion. For two years, we have experienced a time that none of us expected in spite of knowing about biology that we could always expect a pandemic. In these unique times, we have also experienced the cohesion and cooperation of the international community, international science and politics, when clear objectives were set for cooperation with research and the development of vaccines. It was successful, but the international cooperation must not end there. It must be all the way to distribute the vaccine in a consistent and reasonable manner to all parts of the world, both direct humanitarian and non-biological policies, but also to the viral biology. The mutations of the virus are unpredictable, so we need to reduce its opportunities to reproduce and thereby reduce the capacity for mutations. We are not protected until the entire inhabited earth is protected. It's just that way, as we've seen here. We have also heard here in our discussion of an incredible conflict between parts of the world. Therefore, the active involvement of Iceland in international activities is important, such as support for the COVAAX vaccine co-operation and support the activities of the United Nations Children's Fund in ensuring a Covid vaccination in developing countries. Children's help plays an important role, providing valuable experience on the implementation of vaccinations in developing countries that have been used to access the vaccines on their own, transport, technical assistance, support to health care professionals and institutions, as well as public education.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advocate of this case. It is a very important matter, which is the effect of Covid on Iceland's global development team. I believe the international development team of Iceland, which has a long history and is one of the main sources of Icelandic foreign policy, should remain as unchanged as much as ever. I hope the effect of Covid is mentioned by all to them in cooperation. Consuming was approved in 2019, and hopefully the State Department of State has been able to enforce that policy despite Covid. We are one of the richest societies in the world, and it is very important that our budget for developing cooperation is in harmony with the wealth of Icelandic society. In particular, I would like to agree with the last point, which is the following with a saying: Has an analysis been made or analysis of any deterioration in Iceland's development teamwork for Covid-19? If not, will a minister attack in such an analysis and respond to the need? This is a fundamental matter. In fact, I believe the International Parliament should request an investigation into the effects of both the government and the effects of Covid on development as well as on Icelandic society. It is very important that we define all our assistance to developing countries in particular regarding Covid, separate from our present policy. It is fundamental, and how important it is that we support the developing nations in vaccine purchases and vaccinations! The results have shown that this is of utmost importance in the battle against the pandemic we are getting out of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u43	A respectable president. We here discuss events in developing countries because of a pandemic and because of their situation. Our partner countries, where Iceland has provided and wants to provide assistance, call for quick action and analysis of what we can do even better to face an additional emergency. In addition to the global catastrophe, there is an even greater increase in food shortages and food shortages as a result of wars and invasion in Ukraine. Many developing countries depend on food shipments and purchases from war - torn areas. It is expected that many Western countries, including those that have been most successful in developing support, will provide additional funds for others that they consider to be urgent during difficult times in Europe. It is important that evolution does not occur at the expense of times when the people of these countries so desperately need help to experience a more sensitive time for their survival, their future, than it has been for a long time. Iceland needs to sharpen the assistance we've provided because of the shocking impact of the epidemic on the countries we're helping. We can and should add further to the assistance we provide with further financial provisions that will be spent where the need is most and with the strength to face additional challenges that may even worsen in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir, for this important discussion, where I know we agree very much on most things. I'd like to tackle a few points here in the second speech. First, it is often said that Africa is not ready to receive help when it comes to things like Covid. Then I just want to show you about a country I lived in for two years called Rwanda, where more than 80% of the population have already received two injections, since today there are fewer Covid infections a day than here in Iceland. Why? Yes, because they had already worked hard to build up health - care systems for the past ten years, they were ready to deal with this. When they received the support they needed, they were able to deal with these things. So you can't just say: Africa isn't always ready. This can be done right if we put into practice this long - term building. It is also often said about how much money we spend helping out countries. I'd like to put in a little conversation. A response that we received here at the World Assembly today showed that 11.4 billion people had been killed in a Covid test in Iceland over the last two years. Let's say this in the context of the fact that the entire development team, not just what we did for Covid, but all development teamwork, will be at a total of 10.2 billion this year. The systems we live in in connection with development aid and relief efforts are not built to cope with such major events. Now we're going to deal with another grad. Let's get more money from it, so we don't take it from the present development work.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u45	Mr. President. It should also be the ambition of any society that is well - versed in support of the lands and parts of the world. The circumstances of poverty may vary, such as the effects of war and its tragic consequences, as we do in these days. At that time, many immoral politicians have been able to slant themselves of the nations and live in luxury while the common people are starving. Dryness and other natural disasters also contribute to the difficult use of land for breeding. The low level of education and the low level of technology also have much to do with it. Iceland has done a lot of good in many areas. These include a number of assistance provided by Iceland in a technical field, as well as the support of institutions that support this legal group in the United Nations. Then Iceland has made development contracts with several countries to improve the status of poor people and contribute to the well - being of human rights and sustainable development, as it is called. All of this is good, but considering Iceland's contribution to development as a proportion of GDP turns out to be submarines from other countries, with a contribution of more than 0.3%. Norwegians, Sweden, and Danir spend more than 1% of this same party, find more than half a percent, and Germany around 0.7%. Icelanders are a rich nation, and it is absolutely inconceivable that we are some of the submarines of other nations when it comes to contributing to development aid. One factor is the importance of evaluating contributions to development aid, i.e. It is permitted to count contributions to the reception of refugees as development aid, and not only welcome, but also disfellowshipping. It is strange to me that driving people out of the country is considered to be part of a developing aid.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u46	A respectable president. I want to thank all those who have participated in the discussion, both the highest. Minister and minister. Councilmen. During this difficult discussion, I found that listening to a review was a positive experience. A minister who understands the seminaries and sees the situation raises questions. I agree with that. Of course, these figures mentioned are astronomy and very unrealistic; 50 million, 100 million, increased poverty, inequities, hunger, the need for humanitarian assistance. I agree with what you're saying. Einarsson Because this terrible situation exposes the fact that in the pandemic, we were primarily thinking about ourselves. But I missed not hearing more of those views over the past two years. A respectable president. The disaster of Covid is just beginning in the developing world, and it will be the worst of the epidemic. The minister went over, not because of the unsurpassed epidemic, but because of the indirect effects of counter-important measures, both our own and in these countries. Covid has increased the world's anxiety and depression by dozens of percent, while in the 43 countries where famine is imminent, anxiety is sure to be different from ours. During a pandemic, major setbacks have occurred in the field of development, and in some places it has been successful again for decades. Still, that does not mean giving up. We need to be motivated by this if we are to place great emphasis on our developing cooperation and its results. In spite of the smallness of an important participant in developing cooperation, Iceland is an important part of the world's work. Nor has it ever been so important to fight for greater human rights and equality. I hope that will, and that sounds like it, continues to focus on Icelandic development teamwork.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u47	Mr. President. Thanks again for the good and timely discussions. I'd like to mention a few things. Hv. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson told me that everything was going according to plan, but I specifically stated that our assignments in Malawi and Uganda were largely going according to plan. However, there have been a number of other factors and a significant increase in challenges for developing activities, which have led to significant increases in the implementation of Covid-19. Hv. paritaprevir Baldursdóttir asked questions that I believe have answered, except for the one I could not answer in my first speech. The answer is: A planned analysis of Iceland's development teamwork at the time of Covid-19 is expected with spring. So it's gonna be interesting to go through it, and there's something we need to look into it too. Clearly, we have faced great challenges in our ministry, but this also contains a great lesson, how we have responded, which we can really benefit from. This has also called for adjustments in our employment practices, and some of these reactions may be something that we want to continue and maintain. In Covid and in the past few years, we have increased the share of development to 0.35%, but we're close. A senator who speaks of 0.7% of the United Nations, and that is what we have signed. But we're not submarines. We're over average in OECD. We can then believe that we should be more than over the average as one of the richest people in the world, but we have been adding. In 2027, compared with 2023, the rate of growth will increase according to estimates of 3 billion, a 26% increase. But how sad it is to see that through this period, the results we have struggled to achieve together have been wiped out! This means that the project is growing, and this is not a reduction in war in Europe and all that lies ahead. [[The president calls.]] So when we make the decisions we have been making, it'd better be to skim up our sleeves and see the consequences of the decisions we have been making.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u48	A respectable president. The bill currently available for the General Assembly is a major improvement and will support professional attention within the hospital and improve the quality of services for users and improve their management. By means of the bill, managers will be provided with additional support to provide as well as available health care needs as users have the right to use. In a speech or two. paritaprevir Óli Kárason, the son of Kamri, went over a combination of directors. There were many good comments worth paying attention. As the matter seems to me, comments on the bill are being made to look for persons with vast knowledge and experience and how the hospital provides health care and how to educate health groups and scientific research. However, knowledge is not limited to these factors alone, so it should not be avoided by others who also insist that they have knowledge of business and planning. This may not be enough, and the list may prevent qualified individuals from taking place in the board, and it is only natural that this should be examined further during the treatment of the case here at the General Assembly. It is in accordance with the vast majority of viewpoints when decisions are taken in planning and planning, that the hospital will meet its legal obligations as determined by the law. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason also noted that the two employees who are expected to sit in the hospital's administration are not in accordance with the standard duties of the executives and that I would like to agree with them. In view of the bill's text, however, it is clear that the role of employees is open to openness, with freedom of speech and right to offer. A general body has been able to treat a body of employment laws, an arrangement well-known abroad, an arrangement that is going to increase the right of employees to make decisions at their place of employment. Professional democracy can be implemented in a variety of ways; ranging from increased information to employees'being involved in a joint decision-making with governments on how to operate. The evidence has been given for increasing employment democracy that with such arrangements there are additional practicality and production and improvement in the satisfaction of employees. This is a trend that is beyond the end and is evidence of modern government style and culture. That would be possible. right to go beyond the bill and to add to the employee's rights and duties in the management board and to give them the right to vote at the board. How is it possible to choose employees who were specifically discussed here yesterday is a special solution, but it should now be solved, I think, in the treatment of the General Assembly. Then I would like to step aside from the service of the hospital. In my opinion, it is necessary for the user's perspective on control. Have stakeholders used the same terms, pointing out that it is necessary to give users the same opportunity to promote their views when it comes to planning, planning, and internal monitoring of the function. In this relationship, there has been some The United Nations Convention on rights of disabled people as well as the need for consumers to have effective access to their treatments and to listen to their experiences. In some respects, this is in the case of the 4th C.E. the bill of user council requirements. That output is good as far as it goes. Such advice, however, does not have the same role as control, nor will it be seen that a user's approach gets the same weight as if it were to sound in the hospital administration, where the decision - making process is likely to take place. It is therefore true that the World Council of Nations considers whether it is right for one or two representatives of the user to get a role comparable to that of the employees assigned according to the bill, i.e. to have them sit in board meetings with freedom of speech and right to propose. It was also noted in earlier discussions that it might be difficult to find out, that there were large groups of users who might have different viewpoints and experiences, but I think that this might be rooted out so that over a period of years there would be many viewpoints. I would also like to state that it is not proper to recommend comparable health services in the country. At the top of the question. A health minister noted that if the hospital is well controlled, it might be done thereafter. The person present has full faith that there will be success and that there is no basis for doubting another. If the General believes that this arrangement fits the Hospital, I feel that most of the same views apply to hospital and health centers in the country. There's nothing to wait for me. I believe the administrations of these institutions in the country should come to the set of long-term policy, go over the work programme and plan of the year, and evaluate these programmes and standards that the institutions will set up in the same manner as performed at the Hospital. At the same time, such governments would be relevant directors for decisions about business and activities. Finally, I would like to agree with the views that have been expressed earlier in the discussion on the role of directorship, i.e. If it were right for the director to represent the government, the government would have mastership over the director. I'm sure that in the treatment of the bill at the General Assembly, these views will be examined, and I am convinced that the final law will be designed to achieve full harmony among members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u49	President. It was interesting, the coverage of which. A senator on procrastination. That's exactly what I find interesting in this bill, and as indicated here in the consultation process, it was a call for a user's approach, as it were. A senator spoke of freedom of speech and proposal. I wondered, just as with the representative of the employees who have freedom of speech and proposal but not voting rights, whether users should also have freedom of speech and proposal as well as voting rights. I don't quite understand why these groups need to be excluded from their voting rights. I don't know what the thought is in the back, and I wonder if it's there or not. A senator can give me a glimpse into what's being discussed on professional democracy, how far it goes if the right to vote is excluded. After all, that's the way the decision is made and if decisions aren't even partly on the grounds of both employees and/or users, how far are we really going to do business if we don't even try it? It's two employees' representatives, but it's no vote. Maybe one vote. Why not two? I think a little discussion about professional democracy would be very helpful for this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u50	I thank the senator for the answer. As this looks to me, it is obvious, and was actually discussed earlier in the treatment of this case, that, as the bill is set up now, it is gone very soon. It was noted here that it was not really wrong to talk about the workers for this purpose as directors because they were more like emissaries who would actually have the right to speech and proposal but would not bring the nature of the case to the hospital's direct administration, as if the ideas of professional democracy were going on. So I think this bill could be fixed, in fact, that this seven-man government will be appointed to two employees who would not only have the right to speak freedom and vote but also a vote at meetings. I think that's really the only way to get this professional democracy going. With the users, I'm sure there's a wide range of views. At the top of the question. A health minister found that he was concerned that this was a very diverse and large group of people with different needs and perhaps not have the right to vote directly. I'm in itself quite ready to see how you can persuade users to have a vote on meetings, there's a possibility it can be implemented. In the beginning, however, it could at least be arranged to allow users to have a direct access to the board and to say something and offer suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u51	President. The current arrangement should, in effect, be very direct communication between the Ministry and the Hospital, which is taking control between good relations and the laws on public financial planning and the like, which may be very helpful to a great deal of professional and longer communication, the channel between the minister and the hospital, is that you think. Maybe that's a good idea. I don't quite understand the motive and need of the law, the exact problem being solved. Somehow it's up to you that there's supposed to be control, and I can totally understand how it could help professionally, but it's not drawn up. Especially when it comes to the point of view. I think that there is something that we should get more information about a minister, how he provides for such an arrangement, because it matters how decisions are made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u52	A respectable president. I think the bill such as this is a major progress and I think that it is a great contribution for the heads of the Land Hospital and possibly other institutions, health institutions, to receive as the most comprehensive knowledge and experience in helping them to provide both suggestions and knowledge into the management of the Agency. It has been noted that there may be a higher role in the government and that humans simply have the authority to hire directors, e.g. There's something that the General will just have to look into, and I'm assuming that when the case is taken into account and sent out to it, these views are presented.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u53	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Viktor Stefán Pálsson's son for a fine talk. I wanted to ask you what. A senator into a professional democracy or democracy over a head when it comes to the management of an enterprise. We've been talking about the staff agents being put on board and last night's discussions. A minister had doubts about how representatives of the workers could make decisions that would really affect them. In the same way, though, we talk more about users and the voice of user users in the board. Again, people are afraid of it, and they find what I would call excuses, saying: "How are we going to choose one of the seven people in a user council to represent? I know a lot of governments and advice and committees where such an organization gathers on who's an agent and the local representative is always looking for information from everyone, not just his own organization. I'd like to hear from what happened. Senator: How can we get the State and others who have governments to put more democracy into operation when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u54	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. It is natural in the term democracy to allow employees to come into business, to establish business management, or to establish like the Land Hospital. I reiterate what I have said before and said in my speech; of course, it is extremely important for employees to get some access to such a large institution as the health institutions are already their input into decisions about how best to perform the ministry is, of course, what will come best to their users. In itself, I do not have much more to add to this, but I think it is necessary from these viewpoints to make these changes in the bill and ensure this direct approach to employees, for without them and this direct approach may be an empty matter to talk about democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u55	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I wanted to go to another point like that. A senator mentioned who is in charge of each. Me and I think what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke yesterday that it was a little weird to have both management and director and all arranged by a minister and no one really over anyone. Hv. A senator mentioned that this is something the Senate needs to tackle in its handling on this matter. I wanted to know what I thought. It's for a senator. Is the board supposed to have a manager, or should it be the way it is? What does it look like? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u56	President. Thank you. A senator for another answer. My opinion is that there must be a clear authority having the government. She needs to have specific instructions, really some frame of view about what the government can do and what it cannot do. It was noted during a discussion that this was widely known, that it was a management board. From the way it has been achieved by other governments, I think it would be an arrangement that would be very interesting to consider, whether the government should not have the authority to have master over directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u57	A respectable president. In fact, this may be said to be a return to old times or back with the decisions made in 2007 when the government was legally laid down. It is, in fact, acknowledging that there was a mistake in the administration, with the preparations that made the government alone, and they just heard them under a minister. I would kill it already. A senator noted that if they were to put control of the hospital, other hospitals should be conducted. This was also true in other locations in a country where hospitals were present, where governments were directing the hospital. I would like to have a little more discussions about how to do this. A senator envisions that the hospitals would be controlled again. The tip of an older citizen in Southnes led the other day and challenged health - care minister to resume this procedure, for example. in the hospital office of the Southnesiah, that there should be a government there. Both the town council and the town council of the city of Smokenes agreed that this could be a way to get the local people to feel better about it. I'd like to pray. A senator getting more involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the question. In itself, I think it is relatively simple to review the ideas presented in the bill for the administration of the Land Hospital to other local medical institutions. If we think this bill is good for the Land Hospital, I don't see why similar views would not apply also to hospitals in the country. I think they're just as proud of receiving support, experience, and knowledge like Land Hospital. To me, it should be relatively simple to fix the bill on the way not only to the hospital but also to make similar arrangements for other medical institutions in the country. This should be relatively simple, rather than focusing on the Land Hospital, the bill would reach all medical institutions in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u59	A respectable president. I miss the time when the local people had access to my home hospital management because it is important that the heart of the area be struck. Time and again, the managers of these institutions are strangers who have even been sent by the Ministry to manage the institution. People drive them, in this case, the Smokey Lane in the morning, but maybe not. Maybe it's out of sight and not in touch with society. Of course, we also have many rural communities behind one local hospital and the local community's voices need to be heard. [[The president calls.]] I think it would be of the good if this idea went down. A senator could make it to the table. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. A senator said here just a minute ago. How important it is that we who live in the country have more to say about how things are being controlled in our districts! Of course, this is just one part of a number of people to consider. As health - care institutions play a key role for us who live in the country, we are deeply concerned that we can obtain good health care in the same way that people in the capital area do. Hence, as the senator said, the local people have something to say about how this organization is being controlled. So I agree with what he said.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u61	Madam President. We here discuss changes in health care laws, in particular how to manage the largest health care agency in Iceland, an institution that has had to go through difficult times in the past few years, an institution that has raised a crisis and done things despite limited financial resources and lack of staff, where it is not well paid for its difficult work. It is vital, therefore, that such an institution have a government that can support the Agency in coming through the challenges it now faces, both past problems, pandemics, and the changes that will occur in our society in the coming years. A lot has been discussed in recent years at least that efficiency and efficiency need to be improved, and some beautiful words apply to what needs to be done. But the truth is, we are going through a lot of social changes. One of the things we're going to have to go through is the digital revolution of the health system, and it's important that in the management of an institution such as the Land Hospital are people who understand the impact of such revolutions. Then I'd like to discuss what the 1st mg book says. Section 8. a. It says: In the management of individuals with knowledge of business and planning, in medical and scientific studies, and in the educational and public administration procedures and in the administration of administrative procedures. As long as these are all good things that surely need some of the executives, I would like to point out also what will be discussed on how the hospital officials in Norway are chosen. It says, with the permission of the president, they need to have a broad range of knowledge of various topics, such as health care, management, management, information technology, economics and legalities. The report also speaks of it as being under the topic of consultation, and I was unable to read from where these ideas came from, which refers to evolution and innovation, including. with regard to technology development and development on the burden of disease. At least I couldn't find out that the two of these things could have access to the bill itself, but I think it's very important that we have a government that has at least a control of the bill. some member of the board who has a clear understanding of what this means. For example, those who have led digital revolution within other enterprises or other institutions could be obtained and used that knowledge to help manager and Land Hospital in the future, since we do not want to have it that way. A medical minister employs a prospective director who has an understanding of what needs to be done but then sits on the board of people with thoughts of the past who do not understand the importance of controlling digital revolution. It is also important that in this government there are people who have and can be the voice of the people who are actually in the hospital room. It is all too common for us to be afraid of having people, employees or users, part of the board. The truth is, in those governments that activate users, the problems are usually tackled earlier and the vision and solutions are found more easily. That's why I'd like to give a lot of encouragement. The welfare committee, which reviews this bill, to see that those who today represent the staff of the board are not emissaries but are real agents with vote rights and that they simply set good rules around how these agents are selected and how they ensure that the voice of all employees is heard within the board. Similarly, I believe it is important to have a representative of the Council of Users presented in Article 4. The bill is sitting at least. as an officer at the board. I strongly dismiss the fear that the representatives of the board can't agree that any one of them is in charge. I know this arrangement only from many governments where members of the organization agree that someone will represent everyone. It works very well and would ensure that their voice also was heard, something we need to be ready to listen to because the users can tell us much more about how the service is, where to fix things, than perhaps some excels sent to a board meeting. We've talked a lot about how to command this government, whether it's to appoint an executive or how it all should be done, and I think it's very important that we think it well, not just for the management of the Land Hospital, but in general of the public institutions and members of the community and other things we're with, that we think well how this structure is done in a way that the outcome will be best. We also need to make sure that the management board is not only selected because, as in the United States, the person selected the right category or, as it would have been, gave enough to the campaign fund, which, fortunately, we are not there, but that there is a select person with experience and knowledge who really uses the huge project ahead of him to take the Land Hospital and get him to the next level where we can trust that patients will receive high quality services quickly and easily, where staff are adequate at work and willing to work. This we can, if we work together on this, if we tackle these things and we are ready to deal with the problems and solutions. I trust the highest. A health minister who takes advantage of the fact that this is at the General Assembly is truly willing to improve the health system. Although we're in the second category, we're willing to be together when it comes to making sure that the National Hospital works because we never know when we personally, our families, or our friends will need this service, and we certainly hope that they will or will receive the services we need. Let's just stick together to finding the best solutions. I got it. I got it. to work together in this, to work with the Ministry, and that the Ministry offers an open mind, just like all of us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u62	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Gísli Ólafsson for his fine speech I was only beginning to worry about, but then he came to what I think is the main thing, and that's the voice of the people. I think we're better off there at a management or authority in some glass house in no relation to the people themselves, that is, the users who come to accept services - it's just an out - of - date system. All of this needs to be remedied in so many government institutions. Now it is appropriate to consult, hear people, and regularly investigate; that the management of the people, employees and patients, are going to go through and talk to them directly. The treasure that has been in our community between authority, employees, and people, who are coming there to accept the ministry - it's just past or should at least be. Now we're thinking of bridgeing this gap, and I'm picturing a government that isn't merely an expert minds and intellectuals with a Ph.D., a god knows how many people, but people who have been in one of the beds, were patients. Do you really need to feel everything on your own? Of course, it is not possible to demand, but at times it is simply necessary to go through this process to know how to manage an institution like this, i.e. be himself a patient. All of us know of this new experience, i.e. when people were in situations that they might be directing as superiors.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u63	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. My background, before I started working on relief programs, is computer science. One of the things that we learned in the sectors 151⁄220 years ago was that we had to listen to users exactly, you couldn't create just some system and some programs without talking to them. Fortunately, this understanding is that we need to listen to the users, beginning to spread into all society's systems. It's true, as a matter of fact. One senator says, sometimes you have to experience things yourself in order to see what you can do better. I'm not going to wish the highest. A health minister who needs to experience this system himself. But there are stories from here about a former health minister who suddenly realized that something was wrong when they had to go into the hospital themselves. But you can listen to people who are going through this, listen to the patients, listen to the users, listen to the staff. That is one of the most important things we can do, and I am grateful that we can do this. A health minister sits here and listens and writes because these experiences need to be taken and learned from them, turning them into solutions, not living in a glass house, and thinking that nothing is happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u64	A respectable president. I hear that me and what. paritaprevir The Gísli of Rafn Ólafsson is completely on the same page. I think it's very good, and I'd like the Minister to be too, maybe he'll comment on it. But that's exactly what this is all about. However, as a psychologist to 30 years of age, I would like to warn others: Listening and listening is one thing. It is possible to sit and listen and pretend that you are listening and accepting everything and then not be listening and do nothing about it. You can also use active listening and be determined to listen so that you will accept, understand, and consider the matter and move it all over into a project, and then go back and see if it has paid off. There are a number of types of those who are listening, and I encourage those who will continue with this case to keep in mind that new technologies have come into existence and new ideologies, new understandings, wherever you can see them. There are no more top ones to decide how things will work out. Then sick people come, and they just have to sit and stand by some system that no one's asked them about. This huge, complex organization that we're still trying to figure out how to function -- I hope we start to hear what people are saying, get in touch with people, and just go all the way, sit down and talk to them. How are you feeling? What do you think? What adjustments need to be made? And that's how you might continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u65	President. Yes, it is important to listen, but we too need to act. I often tell the story of my work at Microsoft and was replaced by a head of staff in the international part. The personnel manager started by taking a two-month listening tour and listening to people, what they wanted to do. As soon as she returned from this two-month listening tour, she began to perform and she first applied to things that were easier to fix, things that had never been noticed, but then went on performing and fixing the other things and working on finding solutions for them. One of the most complex systems we live in is the health system. Become a health minister is certainly not taken out, for there are so many things that need to be fixed. But listening, setting priorities, and performing operations can fix a lot of things. Often, these things even cost nothing more than making decisions or changing procedures. I'm totally agreeing with what. A senator, you need to listen, you have to be done, and you really need to work together when it comes to these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u66	A respectable president. If you look back a little, then the conversation about the Land Hospital has been very negative just like that. We see clear and sacred reports of the permanent angle of the Land Hospital, and it just doesn't work to get it within the framework of the budget, so some adjustments need to be made. I now wonder if the purpose of this bill is to follow that discussion, it's being put on somebody -- I don't know what to call the people who are supposed to follow the budget and make sure the hospital is within this framework that financial ministers decide, not necessarily health ministers. I have to say, I'm a little worried that it's in the bill that there's a minister flying seven men over, because not all ministers are well - meaning public health care, although the one who's sitting here is. So I wondered: Is it true that there are others and others besides just a minister who ship the government in the old law from around 1990? Then there were other ways of doing this. I want to pray. A senator is only wondering if it would be good if there were more people who were assigned to this government than just ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u67	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Einarsson for his answer. Of course, it is important who is on the board and who is in charge. Unfortunately, we see all too much of people being ruled, either because they choose a particular category, because they may be former members of the council, because they represent some party that needs to be represented. It's all bad orders to me. It's very important that when you command such an important institution as a land hospital, you not only notice that what I sometimes call an excel-puss, someone who's after the destruction of 1 k. too much here or 1 K. too much there, people who understand e.g. does not necessarily have to invest in certain items to reduce future costs. There are few examples of the fact that they were appointed to governments that do not understand vision and innovation and digital revolution. But then I'll answer a question. The senator's answer to the question, Is there anything better planned if any members of the council are selected at the General Assembly? Sometimes I do. Sometimes no.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u68	A respectable president. We are well aware of the fact that the general body has been appointed to important positions, such as the bank manager and the like. The foundation or hospital is nothing more than the people who work there. We can only see that amazing miracles have taken place in recent months and in recent losses in which workers have made a real effort to keep this nation going and to keep it from experiencing many of the calamities experienced by other countries. That's why I wondered, because the senator mentioned this excel-puans; employees, know the situation well in the hospital. They know the mechanism, they know the pressure, they know the number of hours they are appointed. Would it not be true, then, that those employees who would be appointed would be more than just agents in the audience, that they would have something more to say in the future if they were to expand this, that there are more than just the director who's supposed to hire this? Whether members of Congress should be in charge, I don't quite know if they're right. I just wondered about some of the local councils of the rural society that surrounds the organization we're discussing. Because we're talking about our national hospital, I'm not sure I can always trust some minister to see that this government is properly arranged. There's nothing in this bill of whose type these people are supposed to be on this board. Does it have sympathy for the services being performed, or does it only show sympathy by the financial support given to the relevant agency?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u69	President. Yeah, I totally support it. A senator said, the staff representatives are certainly supposed to have a full vote and be like other officials, because I believe it is very important that the voice of the people, not just the employees, but the user, be heard in the board. That would be very prospective if three of the seven agents were representative of staff and user. That would really be far-fetched. But here we are talking about the National Hospital. And I agree that if there were institutions in the country, the people around them or their representatives would have something to say, but it's hard to tell who to choose. That is where we, in view of this bill, must trust to the highest. The minister of the medical profession is at each turn, prepared to appoint people according to knowledge and experience, and not just because they are in this case the candidate, and knowing that the class we choose is not to matter when it comes to building up health systems for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u70	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 87/2018, electric cigarettes and electric refills. The bill was written at the Ministry of Health in order to set clear sources for sale, marketing, and use of nicotine products and to submit them to electricity laws and electric refills. Recent losses have been received by the Ministry of Health for nicotine pads, asking questions about their legal environment and possible licences for sale and marketing. The Council has also received information from national monitoring agencies that have described the problems of such products in the current legal environment. This is because it is a product that may contain large amounts of nicotine. Nicotine is not a harmless substance, and it is considered extremely addictive. Here, it is important that both immigrants and sellers of nicotine have called for rules to be put on such products. It is therefore important to consider nicotine products that are marketed as without tobacco and are available in Iceland for clear rules. Children have also been shown to have taken such products, but this can result in poisoning if nicotine levels are high. It is important to ensure that the health and safety of the children with clear rules on the marketing and sale of the contaminated products. These are proposed to make changes in existing nicotine products, which have been used by electric cigarettes and refills, including those for which they can be used in a comparable way. on market surveillance, no advertisements, and age limit. This suggests that the same rules of age for buying and selling nicotine products as for electric cigarettes and fillings so that only individuals 18 and older will be allowed to buy and sell nicotine products. It also suggests that the packaging of nicotine texts or word pictures may be prohibited that may especially appeal to children and young people, e.g. with image decorations or slogans, which may encourage nicotine consumption, as with electric cigarettes and refills. If this bill is legal, a law directive on the maximum nicotine level will be set up in nicotine products, and the work at that point will be looked forward to the effect nicotine can have on a person. In this regard, care should be taken to ensure that the uptake of nicotine from product products is not greater than is obtained from the maximum allowed concentration in electricityic fluid, i.e. 20 milligrams per milliliter. That is in accordance with current electronic laws and refills. Nicotine pads have reached considerable spread over a very short period of time. It is important to feel that children and young people start using and addicted nicotine products, for example, that children have been poisoned after using nicotine products as mentioned earlier. A recent study has also shown that 1 out of 10 students in 10 high school use nicotine pads and, based on results from a high school study study and analysis, about one third of high school students use nicotine pads. Therefore, according to this bill it is recommended that nicotine products be prohibited in schools and other places designed for the social, sports, and leisure activities of children and young people and at health institutions and in other places where health care is provided. Also forbidden to advertise nicotine products or show their consumption in advertising. The law's prohibition on the performance of goods at sales will also include nicotine products, which means that such products must not be visible customers at markets unless it is a product store. Nicotinic products will also be prohibited in certain places where children and young people gather, such as in schools and other educational institutions as well as in other households intended for daily care and social, sports and leisure activities of children and young people. This bill suggests changes to reduce recruitment and use of nicotinic products and generators and battery refills in children and young people. Nicotine products and electric fags have been highly popular, and their use is widespread among young and young people. At the same time as daily or routine smoking by young people, their consumption of nicotine products and electricians has been increasing as a result of the introduction of new commercial addictive nicotine. Research has also shown that flavors, especially candy and fruit flavors, play a major role in the popularity of electric cigarettes among young and young people, and evidence suggests that the same is true of the popularity of nicotine pads in young people. These flavors are also thought to lead to the usefulness of the product as a risk. There is evidence that later youths who smoke electric smoke go to tobacco smoking. It is therefore believed that public health requirements require action to match the above use of electric and nicotine pads by young people. In order to avoid importing, manufacture and selling nicotine products and electric fags that contain flavors that appeal to children, such as candy and fruit flavors. The above limits are not thought to be too far, as certain flavours are only limited, but this is not the case to prohibit the import, manufacture or sale of nicotinic products and generators. Hence, the products will continue to be available for those who feel the need to lean on them in order to break free from smoking. We know, a respectable president, that some have presented evidence and have even managed to change their consumption. Changes are made to the law on the surveillance and authority of the Rapporteur. In this connection, changes are suggested to the manufacturer's information, importers and tradeholders, and extensions of sample corners products to verify the contents and properties of these products. When there are compelling reasons to believe that the law has been violated, it is necessary for the inspector to forbid continued use, sales, and distribution, and to place goods and dispose of them at the expense of their operators. At the same time, the bill points to the change of the law's law on wood. It is necessary that legal regulations have the power and the warning effect. In view of the uses and properties of nicotine products and electric websites and how rich the responsibility of producers, immigrants and sellers is suggested to clarify and establish the laws of the law. In this regard, three new regulations are added to laws on day-care, government fines and charges with the police. This bill was published by government consultations and received reviews from public institutions, individuals, producers, sellers, and interest groups. Much was taken into account by word - of - word comments, and this change is reported in comments to the individual branches of the bill in the report. I think I'm going to finish my case, a respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of this bill and suggest that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u71	President. I appreciate the review of this bill, but I have to say, I think it's going too far. Here it is worth considering that this is a product that was designed primarily for preventing tobacco, which everyone agrees is much worse, but a similar rule and limitations should be used despite the quality of nicotine products as an essential factor in reducing tobacco use. The bill's report says, with permission from the President: This bill provides specific measures to help children avoid eating nicotine products, including the prohibition on sales for individuals under 18 years of age. Someone may be sufficient, but children may not be allowed to buy this product, but they are not. The limits on taste and other activities that have the right of adults to do things apart from job freedom, constitution, and etc. are far beyond those of adults. So I'd like to ask, Mr President, don't you think a minister of this is too much of a provincial approach to the self - determination of adults?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir for this answer. There was comment on this very point, that it was going too far, and you can totally ponder over it. The main objective of the bill, I think we can all agree that it's important to consider public health and, especially, the public health of children and teenagers and therefore, because it's a harmful policy. On the other hand, we might look to the very nature of our reasoning support. A senator came up with regard to the freedom of work when the law presents a rating - but on what? I would have kept it in place because there are certain flavors here, and there are studies that say that certain flavors of the taste for young people. [[The president calls.]] That's why it's here, and there's evidence to it. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, if you've banned the product from 18 years of age and younger, the real question is, Does that really have the intended effect? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u73	President. I thank the Minister for the answers. Speaking of the research, the bill's report also says that it is important to invite adult smokers to an selection of effective and adequate alternatives to smoking in the first place and to stop flavoring human health rather than to improve it. To answer this comment, by permission of the president, the report says that it is not expected to be too far with the above limits, as the flavours are limited only, but the import, manufacture or sale of nicotine products and electrostats are not being banned. There is no further evidence to adults who use these products with certain flavors, saying: "Just use something else. ' President. Where there is a product that will be banned children, and there is no one to belittle it, I allow it to reflect on at the highest level. Minister to where the line will next be drawn. [[The president calls.]] Will alcohol be the next or even the Bayleys?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-03-22-54.u74	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. At the end of his talk, a senator put this in an interesting context. I think that when we're dealing primarily with young people, we have to remind ourselves that this is harmful. The purpose and main objective of this bill in the public health of children and adolescents is perfectly clear. The key element is to do what? There's a law that says 18 years old can't sell or buy this product. Does that sound unnatural to us? I'm not sure. I think those who are dealing with this product call for such rules. I think all those who care for the public health of children and teenagers can agree that it's wise. Whether it's going too far, like a cot. A senator spoke in a previous conversation, but I feel that there's something to reason with. There is also a ban on advertising. There is an ad ban under which the Navigator's Office will supervise. [[The president calls.]] Is it natural for us to flaunt and appeal to them to make use of these products? I don't think so. I think this is a normal step in public health for children and adolescents who are being taken here. [[The president calls.]] It is not forbidding anyone or anyone of any age to partake of this product. [[The president calls.]]
