ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u1	Mr. President. In the end, I was giving warnings from people who work every day to rescue refugees in the Mediterranean Sea and cope with the crisis. What was going on in the way of people who know these things was the importance of the message sent out by the Western countries, not by dangerous impulse, but by the incentives that may have the power to change things and at the same time enable governments to help more people in a more effective way. I specifically mentioned what was mentioned about the dangers involved in having special rules about the welcome of children who would come in ignorance. As they pointed out to us, there is no child from Afghanistan or Bangladesh to Greece, so in most cases either one of our family members is assigned to take the baby away or even some one taken care of it. Sadly, though, these are often questionable men. Government policy cannot be promoted, but it must not be a failure to promote the unrealistic expectations of refugees in general. That is why the British government has now made significant changes in the welcome of those who pass over France's English Channel in hopes of asylum in Britain. And it is well understood, Mr. President, in many cases, most likely, that there are people who have already received asylum in France or other European states in the mainland. In any case, people who had the right to the asylum could get them in France or in the European country they first came to. Nevertheless, these people have been living in camps in northern France and searching for ways, often more dangerous, to cross the English Channel, in effect flee France, flee the European Union, and make it to Britain's shores. This is a trend that has lasted for many years but has gone on growing. The numbers have increased each year from month to month, week by week. The response of the British government was to negotiate with the Rwandan government to set up a welcome station for those taking refuge so that they first go there and get them for asylum in Britain after incidents, but the situation will be handled there. In fact, this is not the first time that such methods have been used. Australians responded to a considerable stream of boats, which often were hardly sea - carrying or not at all sea - to the country by starting by directing people to an island outside the country, which actually led to the end of the current, people giving up their attack on this dangerous mission. This is the purpose of the British government, with this agreement with Rwanda, not to send as many as possible to Rwanda, but to reduce the impulse to put on a dangerous journey, often on unrealistic grounds. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. In this chapter, it was a small watch out of my hand, so I ask you to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u2	Mr. President. Now that I've read it, it's about 2 g's. the bill for a stick, in the article that the bill comes with. There's no way I can find any consideration for what's at the highest level. In his ensuing speech, a minister argued that all the groups listed in five letters of 2 mg. I'm glad the bill agreed to the same rights as the greeting. Here at the beginning of this discussion on 2 st. in the report, by permission of the President: The a-UE team is suggested to add a new set of laws due to the concerted reception of individuals with protection, which will be Article 3. a.◯ There is nothing else that defines the minister's understanding of the main impact of the bill. Then it seems that all these singles of text are going out to explain in a way how a multicultural site is guaranteed fuller rights to collect information and support refugees on the basis of them. There's no need to make a comment. I think it's really the best thing to make it possible to make it possible to better identify the individuals and families and depending on events coming here to increase the likelihood that a good adjustment to society can take place. But I'm kind of gonna have to, at least. President, to know whether the committee's opinion is leading, or not. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir is in a house. You may find it helpful to explain why. It's for a senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u3	Hv. paritaprevir There's a house registered to Jódís Skúladóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u4	Thank you very much. President for the information. In case of a moment. A senator hears me, and it will be a great help to get her on the discussion in an effort to explain to the people here where these plans for increased rights are placed in this bill. That is what the Bible says at 2 Timothy 3: 1. ...,as I told you earlier, with a uniformly protected reception, with permission of the president: ▪ A civilisation centre shall provide professional guidance and counselling to the reception of individuals who are protected. Then there are those who were protected in the sense of this law, which are the five groups I listed earlier. I can't see how this text, or the article on 2 paragraph 2. or any other part of the report, frames in the highest understanding. A minister here observed in the history of the case that this general rights of all these groups. This looks a little bit like they're trying to slip it through. I must admit that I have some sympathy for those members of the Committee who have been involved in this matter, not having made any attempt to evaluate the consequences, both directly and subsequently, of this change. If you have the highest understanding. Minister is the same as the previous minister, chief. Minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason, that this accords with the rights of the groups listed here to the a◯e team, and if that understanding is taken into consideration, I'd like to ask for an explanation. Now I'll see what it is. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson, senator of the left-green green, is here in the hall. In case of a moment. A senator, a member of the Ministry Department, knows this and could explain to the members of the council, would possibly reduce the size of my speculations because of this. But I see that time is running away from me, and so on to the context of things, I ask the President to put me back on the rosary instead of starting a new point here in the last second.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u5	Mr. President. In the end, I was discussing the latest reports of British government reactions on a growing stream of refugees from France to Britain. They are mainly involved in arriving at a reception station outside the country, actually very far from Britain, in Rwanda, Africa. Rwanda is a land that, as no doubt known, went through a terrible civil war some years ago but has had considerable success in building up society, which is actually known as Rwanda. For political equality there, equal to the sex ratio at the council, I believe, in fact, that women are more than men at the Rwanda Parliament. The British government signed a agreement with the Rwandan government for this reception station, where a particular service will be granted and security guaranteed. However, this was done, not with the aim of most people going to Rwanda, but with the goal of showing that it would be better to go somewhere else than to take a dangerous trip across the English Channel. I witnessed the experience of Australa, who had considerable success in this regard and no doubt saved many lives. But I first heard of the idea of a reception station in Rwanda from Denmark, from the prime minister of the officers in Denmark. Actually, I don't know what the situation of Dana's talk with Rwanda is now, but at least... it is clear that the direction of the dance parties in this category has become quite a factor in the discussion in many countries and for good reason. In the past, Danish economists have for many years gone through the experience of past mistakes and seek to respond by means of methods based on facts and the actual content of methods that can work. So here I am going to review the course of cohesive peers, which is extensive, thorough, well thought - out. But before I get to that point, I'm going to review another major chapter of this matter that focuses on the fundamental changes that have taken place in the world's refugee stream. In fact, we often hear speeches, including earlier today, here on this discussion, from what? Martyrs of the world's become so dangerous, worsening as a result of growing war and climate change, as well as the growing number of refugees. They are not looking for the real explanation, Mr President, because, despite everything and the latest tragic news of war in Europe, in general over the past few decades, the world has been getting very better and in most ways. Poor things have declined rapidly in the world, and in proportion, there have never been so many survivors of poverty today. Health, other quality of life, life age, all of this is getting better and has been improving for a long time. Technology swarms forward, and more and more nations, more people, have become more and more productive, and the world in general has gradually become more peaceful. Now I'll just show you the highest. The president of a column showing this. This is the loss of war in the 20th century and in this century. There is no secret that there has been a very significant change for the better. There are not nearly as many of them in war as they once did. Here I am not just talking about proportionately but overall. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. There's no rush in time. I just finished this chapter, so please put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u6	Mr. President. I was not aware of whether the minister was in a house. I'm not calling for him to be called to a house if he's gone home.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u7	President feels that a minister is not in a house, aims for registration that the president is aware of.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u8	I appreciate the information, but if there's a minister in the house, he's here to see us in this discussion. That would be a great improvement. According to the bill as it is, there is nothing more to see than the fact that the matter has come primarily to technical issues and an increase in the rights of a multicultural site. Then the U.S. Senate will have to know about this. Because the person here is not on the committee that discussed the matter and why. paritaprevir Neither does Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and we are in a position to call for any meaning of meaning. The minister of social and employment Guðmundur Ingi Guðbrandsson, who answered the question of the above, we answered, on February 1, when I asked the highest question. Minister, with permission of presidents: To this bill, as it is available, are the rights of individuals to protect in all the rights of individuals who come here under the cry - inspiring system? The highest answer. The minister was, by permission of the president: To answer the previous question, why? The senator, then, is the answer: Yes, it is in line with the rights that are enjoyed on the other hand by the greeting and by those who are protected in a different way. This can't be any better. I listed earlier the rights enjoyed by the eaters, and some of them are more available than those of other groups that fall under them. It will, in any case, be a representative of the administration parties, and preferably the head of the committee's opinion of more things or the highest. Minister, come here and explain to us who are trying to figure out whether this was a big misunderstanding. Minister. If it's not a misunderstanding, and if it's not meaning the highest. The minister, then it must also be shown. This need to be done in what way and where these rights have been added, as this cannot be done on the basis of a work group report made. This change must be made in another way. There were other members of Congress who responded to the Supreme Court. During this time, on February 1, a minister was concerned about similar factors. Hv. paritaprevir BirgirÞórarinsson asking the highest question. Minister, with permission from the President. ▪ But I would like to know what the additional service is, that is, to provide shelterers, and that compared to the eaters. And the highest. Minister will answer something completely different. Þórarinsson He has a question for his government partner by permission of the President. - Thank you very much. Minister responds, but I don't think he's brought up any of this service in any way. So right there is the highest. Ministers are beginning to go like a cat around a hot grin about what this means. Of course, it is not acceptable here that we are in a position to be pressured against a bill in which one of the three members of the Governing Body is presented in a talk in cover 2. and the only one there was in a speech because he just couldn't help but be the guide of the committee's opinion. The only one who came here couldn't help but be here. Why is this? We must continue to look for answers to these questions, for answers are highest. On February 1, a minister does nothing more than add to the vagueness and need explanations. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. The President about putting me back in a speech, please.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u9	Mr. President. I'm in some kind of trouble now. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason continues to recite very interesting facts that you would like to handle. But I will try to keep threads with the section of my talk that I had started but perhaps I will have the opportunity later in the night to respond to it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason just crossed here. I had started discussing that the world is getting better, which is fact in the vast majority of ways. No matter whether war casualties or increase in prosperity, increasing health, in the vast majority of the world's progress has been improving over the decades. Then you ask yourself, " Why, then, are the numbers of refugees as great as they are? ' Why have their numbers increased? This is because these fundamental changes in the world, including Increased prosperity, has led to more people having the opportunity to seek better quality of life, to travel, to get information about life, and their status in other countries. It is unavoidable to take this fundamental change in regard to designing a policy in the affairs of those who are actually active and who are in a position to help the people who are most in need of help. Many times a man hears the mention, and I've probably said this many times in the past, Mr. President, that it is important to help people build up their lands, to increase prosperity in other countries in such a way that people don't have to become refugees, but as prosperity grows in lands that have been extremely poor, the migration of people from that country increases. The number of refugees from those countries is increasing but does not decrease with increasing prosperity, up to a certain extent, and the large study done in this case showed that at the time of, at least, this was a few years ago, this limit was subdued somewhere. for living or quality of life in Albania. In fact, we have seen and seen in recent years that there is still a tremendous stream from Albania. However, there is very little, virtually no one, a stream of refugees from the poorest countries, from all the poorest countries. Let me give you one example that is very vivid for this, Mr. President. It's the kingdom of Chad. Chad is remarkable in this context of all this great refugee stream because it is likely the largest center of the refugee stream in all Africa, where the groups that organize these trips meet in this state, in a certain city that I can't even remember the name of. It is the center before they head north toward the shore in Libya or in other lands. However, although the center of this migration in Africa is in Chad, there are very few refugees, almost none, from Chad. They can't afford it. They do not come along with these groups in an attempt to find happiness. So that, by increasing quality of life in these developing countries, although we are to pursue it, with all available options, to help these countries improve the world's benefits and to make the world ever better, they will not reduce the number of refugees. It'll increase it. With a better standard of living, increasing communication, increasing opportunities for people, the number of refugees in the world will increase, not decrease. There is something that we need to take into account when trying to cope with the problem and helping those who really need help.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u10	Mr. President. I'd like to come into it as the highest possible. In a talk, a social and employment minister spoke on February 1 of the past. He says, with President's permission: ▪ Every person with a registered legal home in this country has the right to serve under local social services legislation and this bill does not change it. But that's not the question. V.E.G. The minister seems to try to be like a cat around a hot rock when he is asked on February 1 of the last year, in answer to his own history speech, whether the rights of individuals with protection were in all the rights of individuals who come here under the cry - inspiring system of this bill approved by it. That's the answer for the highest level. Minister, with permission of presidents: ▪ Yes, it is in line with the rights that are enjoyed on the part of a host and other sources of protection. The question is not about their rights under local social services. Rather, the question involves the rights of the greeting workers, as I listed in 10 letters earlier, in which they deal with capitalists, who are defined in that way and under the rule: Since its arrival in the country, most people are entitled to receive special assistance for a minimum of one year. Help with what refugees are entitled to, cr. However the rest of this section is: a. Budget support. b. Social counseling. c. Housekeeping, along with the necessary interiors and telephones. For example, education, especially Icelandic, motherhood, and community education. ... andschoolschoolindepth. B. empty-hour job. g. health care and dental. h. Service interprets. i. Help with the job search. j. Another needed help. Here is the question that must be answered absolutely: Will these five groups be listed in Article 2. The bill grants these rights to conform to the hosts they have now or not? I ask like what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson at an open meeting of the budget committee this morning, wanting to ask yes and no questions. You see here, we have one very simple yes or no question. It's like the ultimate answer. When the bill was recommended in the early February of February, the minister was opposed to the fact that all groups used the same rights as the greeting. And I just listed them rights right here. This has nothing to do directly with the rights as a community service law, if I recall their right name in law, it's about. It is unmistakably that these rights are available for those living in this country. It's just not the question asked here. Not at present. The minister of the jury, or the man who preceded him, was in no doubt, as I understood it and others, which explains the answers and questions to form a sharp start. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, in his history. Secretary of February. There was no doubt in either of the Ministers that these additional rights would be available for these four groups in addition to the saying, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry. " The bill. I simply don't understand how to try to push this matter forward while the minister's answer is not perfunctory about what appears in 2 gr. The bill. [[The president calls.]] But we keep trying. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm asking for, chief. President, get to go back to the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u11	Mr. President. I was reviewing the important and remarkable fact that the number of refugees in the world has not increased because the world has deteriorated. It has increased more because the world has improved and more people have had the opportunity to make a decision and to travel farther than before. This is very important because if you don't look at facts when you design solutions to your problems, they don't solve your problems. Sadly, however, politics has become too preoccupied with image and appearance, rather than with real content and facts and the search for solutions that work. We need to continue to look for ways to improve the standard of living for people around the world, but this will not solve the refugee problem, it will not diminish the flow. However, it is a further reminder of the importance of setting priorities in behalf of those in most dire situations, those who cannot return home, those who are persecuted, who are in danger and who help them, but not by the means of misuse of the system, since it is primarily affecting those who are ill. However, as the world has improved over the past few decades, we must not view it as self - righteous. We need to defend our success and encourage continued success. It is appropriate to remember that at the beginning of the 20th century, there was a lot of optimism. The world had been greatly improved, and communication, cooperation, trade between countries had increased to a great degree and rapidly. In fact, international freedoms have never been as great as it was in 1913 a year ago. The following year, World War I began. World War II followed, then World War II, and its result to the fact that World War I did not guarantee continued success. Therefore, we need to protect ourselves from the results that are being achieved, but we also need to keep in mind how our next success is in order to defend and increase it. Now the world faces a very large solution. Some of these solutions are changing political landscapes in Western lands. This is not because traditional politics as if they are going to work are dealing with these solutions, on the contrary. That's because they're not doing it. They're not dealing with the big problems at least not with solutions that work, rather with packaging and surface. That is especially true of three major matters. All of these affect people's livelihood and employment. This is the influence of the globalisation, the effects of the new industrial revolution, which includes the high-tech and artificial intelligence revolution, and finally, this vast flow of people from countries that are poorer to Western lands. In these big matters, we need to take and look for real solutions in order to avoid getting into the same situation as we did at the beginning of the 20th century, for continued success is not guaranteed, as we have a very great reminder of now in Ukraine. And how do we succeed in the area of refugees? How do we help those seeking refuge best? It will seem to me, Mr. President, as I look at the clock, to become the subject of my next speech, and as a result, I pray to the highest degree. President, signing up again to the speaker's file.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to stay here while I'm waiting for you to see what you're doing. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, executive executive of the committee's opinion, in the hall, if she is still in a house, putting a discussion on the bill text and on paper only for now, and first briefly review it as a dog. paritaprevir Gísliun Ólafsson's talk came in earlier. It may have been in opposition, but I think it was in a speech or two. A member of the council, where the senator crossed various groups in terms of taking refuge or desire for protection, specifically noted that the reason why it was as common as it is when young men were alone on the run was that the individuals who wanted to avoid running with them were their families and children. They wanted to reach their final stations, so to speak, and eventually settle down and attend their families on the basis of family unity. This is a point that would really be interesting to analyze in a more precise way, because, of course, this is what has often been criticized for many things, the number of men of the best age who come here alone. If this is the case, I think there would be a great improvement in the fact that information would compromise. Not only will it correct the discussion in this context but it may also put us in the position that there is a need to discuss whether there is some better way for families to find protection here than in this way. There must be some statistical evidence in the National Institute of Iceland how common it is for young men who came here alone to attend their families on the basis of family unity. In fact, I thought that the other was more common, that men followed along on the basis of family unity. But this is a point that we need to discuss in the big picture to determine how the system can be most useful to those most in need. If the situation is that young men are wronged in these matters, it is important that they appear, and those who are carrying on statistical information in these matters should be in the palm of the hand to explain them once for all the numbers that you have noted that some of the statistics seem to be very specific to see in the groups applying for protection. The number of applications must also be identified, if the concern of the person listed here proves to be valid, which is mostly improved, and if there are any messages at the time. I see I'm running out of time, chief. President. I'd like to, like, in the context of things, to be put on the rosary again.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u13	Mr. President. I hope you'll excuse the fact that I was a little too quick earlier when I announced that in the next talk, I'll go over the solutions, because I wasn't far enough about going over the subject. It is very important that you find solutions that work, have already reached the bottom of what you have. But these developments I've been discussing here in the last few talks have become a major influence on the politics of the Western world, and we can see that even now. with increased tensions in Europe and including Schengen has been effectively upset. Governments have returned to the use of border protection, even between the northern countries, as shown by recent and ongoing examples, so that the hope for many Europeans or Europeans at least that national boundaries were unnecessary in the continent, have not come true, and have become a significant setback in this EU target. This is especially so because of the issues we address here and the different methods, different solutions from the states on the subject. I traced earlier that the flow of refugees from the states would increase as the standard of living improved until they reached a certain goal, including that. points to the research of the World Bank and a very interesting study or a summary of the development of economist Michael Clemens, which points to when earnings, money equal to a year, have over 600 dollars a year, such as. Ethiopia had a few years ago, and the flow of people from the country begins to increase dramatically, and it will not be reduced again until the annual income, the level of money, has reached $7,500. But then it just starts to slow down, it doesn't stop. He will continue until the land is much better. On the one hand, solutions are urgent. This has already begun to disturb European countries and between them. There is also the possibility that the scope of the subject will only increase for a predictable future. In that case, it is not enough to respond with empty phrases or declarations that anyone wanting to come to this country, this country, or anyone else is simply to be received. I could here only deal with the impact of information technology on all of this development, but the effect is enormous and cannot be overlooked. There is, on the other hand, increasing technology and ability to travel but also information technology and the rapid distribution of information. We have merely touched it here, using the example of Finland to show how relatively small a change can have tremendous implications. One of the countries in Africa alone is Nigeria, one of the most trust - seeking people. More than 90% of the population of our country own their mobile phones and nearly half their smartphones. Often these countries face certain Western prejudices, which have the mental picture that these developing countries are far behind in all technology and technology. At least this is not true in telecommunications and in all Africa, people have developed this technology and can carefully monitor developments. As a result, it is increasingly looking for... [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Now I have to stop in the middle of a sentence, because I don't want to go too much ahead of time, but I'm asking you to register me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u14	A respectable president. I would like to introduce something to what is, that I think, the reason for this matter to be taken up second. In this particular week, between breaks, the first of the Easter breaks, and then a pause in council meetings for district elections. There are an increase in the number of refugees from Ukraine who are fleeing the serious situation there and the threat of war there. I have to say, fortunately, it's the way it is now, that if God doesn't promise this situation in Ukraine, what do we know right now? But it sounds to me that if not everyone who escapes these weeks have the hope of being able to return as soon as possible so that the number of applications from Ukraine is completely different from what we're looking at for an extended period of time in this context. I think we need to view the project, which involves welcoming back the refugees who come from Ukraine as a separate, targeted project. In view of this, I don't think that there is any need, and in reality, I don't agree to link the hatching of this matter with the arrival of refugees from Ukraine. Hv. paritaprevir In a talk earlier this evening, Gísli Hufán Ólafsson said that because of the water current from Ukraine, the number of refugees is ten times that of the most recent years. I wouldn't be surprised that the masses could end up in one of those numbers. This does not, in my opinion, call for these changes because the changes that are discussed here, and then I'm talking about the rights of the Multihuman Park to better distinguish and regulate the flow of candidates to the rural communities that have a contract with the Ministry, are quite different from the task we have to deal with the arrival of refugees from Ukraine. This smells a bit because, as it did through the Covid period, especially in front of it, there were certain cases placed in a crown suit as they were ever told here in the Senate Hall, to speed up the march of that particular bill through the conference hall without its subject being called anything at the time of the pandemic. I think that the same thing is true of this case, that the rush treatment now through the council during this week will, in any case, be unconvinced by a number of Ukraine applications. It would be completely absurd and bordering on me to allow myself to call it opportunism, if that's what we're trying to do. But, of course, it can be said that such an assembly case is here in one way or another, and because of this case it was prepared, it might be considered on the program. But if the evidence is there, I think we should take the time to bring to the ground the concerns we have here, the middle-class members, and be our concern in terms of those who know best about misunderstandings based on, i.e. For the secondary effects and then the effects of these increased rights of four designated groups - if they are not described here and we believe that they should be able to make a pretty good deal of peace with this bill, but they are not being held out for a time, with a combined speech of every member of the board in the discussion tonight, with the exception of the question, of course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u15	Mr. President. Still Ólason the reason. paritaprevir I'm going to try to keep threads for a certain point I'm going over here, but I'm sure there'll be an opportunity later in the night to discuss this. It must be thought - provoking for a dignified president and for the whole administrative part that in such a big and important matter, only one member of the board has seen reason to participate in the discussion at 2 Timothy 3: 1. Um... the main talk. That's weird. Mr. President. I was discussing the changes that have caused the growing flow of refugees and travelers and the reason why I run this case here, the underlying facts of the matter, is that we need to know what is behind us in order to respond with reason. I mentioned the example of Nigeria, for many of those who seek a better way of life in the Western world come from that country. That's understandable. I'm going to make that clear, Mr. President. If you were born in Nigeria, no doubt you would use every opportunity to seek increased quality of life in other lands. Yet, there is a significant increase in the quality of life in Nigeria. Well, then I'll remind you of the highest. A president has what I explained about the effect of increased quality of life on people's travels. I mentioned a great number of people in the country's cell phones and telecommunications, but the Nigerian population is quite numerous. They are now approaching 200 million people in that Kingdom alone, and the economy is growing rapidly at the same time. It is assumed that in the year 2045 - and now it is not as far away as it may sound, it is now for more than 20 years, 23 years, and that time is fast passing - the land of Nigeria has become more populous than the United States. Then the population will have reached the 450 million, 450 million people, in fact, at the latest 2050, but possibly earlier. In 2008 the United Nations organization, which has regularly improved forecasts for Nigeria and, in fact, other countries, assumed that in 2050 the inhabitants of the country would be 290 million. In other words, these predictions have been updated in a few years from 290 million to 450 million. In a few years, the forecast is updated by some 160 million people in one country. There is Uganda. Today, half of the population is under 15 years of age, and the population has reached some 40 million. After 30 years in Uganda, they will be over 100 million. By the end of the century, 14 of the 25 largest countries in the world in Africa will be, but no land in Europe will ever arrive on that list. Of the 25 largest countries in the world, 14 will be in Africa, no European land, by the end of the century. North of Nigeria is the land of Niger. It is the world's poorest land on a variety of standards, sitting at the bottom of the UN World Health Organization, including, but there are people everywhere growing as fast as in Niger. It is prophesied that by the end of this century, Niger will be twice as large as Russia, Mr. President. Niger, perhaps a land few know, the poorest land in the world, will be at the end of the century twice as large as Russia. The neighbors of the South, Nigerians, will be nearly as many as the Chinese. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I have no doubt that the highest. The president realizes that here I have something to follow and wait for. As a result, the president puts me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to say a few words in connection with the protection of this case, which is quite extensive. In general, personal protection has now sent in a review of the case three times, and it seems that it is almost so that the Agency has given up on the proposal to adapt the case. Now, when it becomes evident for the third time, the Agency will be able to say for a review, with the permission of a president: However, it is noted that if the assessment of the effect is not performed in preparing legislatures, - which have not yet been done - it should be done by the Multi-ethnic Area prior to the development of personal information. This is what the U.S. Department of Peritoneal Protection says after its previous review of bold text, with the permission of a president: ▪ Since it cannot be seen that the comments were made to the character protection, they are repeated in the Agency's reviews now. Hence, the whole issue remains unconcerned why this evaluation has not taken place. It is simply surprising that these views have been held in place ever since the Persian Protection of the matter at the first donation by the one on February 18, 2020. It's been over two years. In its conclusion, it says: It cannot be seen that assessment of the impact of the bill on personal protection has been part of a general impact assessment in connection with its approval [...]Personal protection thinks that such assessments must be performed on the part of the Lawgiver, including the comments made by the Agency on the bill. The priorities of the evaluation and the results of the evaluation would need to be published in the documentation. To some extent, it may explain how difficult it is to obtain someone in general when, in fact, it is as difficult to find someone here in general as it is about the personal protection policy as shown. That's what happened. More part of the report is still missing, over two years later, despite this appeal, despite the bold and written text of the Agency's review that it would have to be better. Then I'm going to allow myself to call it a kind of surrender when it comes to saying that if this is not won, then there can be no mass status at all not start working by law or to work on personal information until such evaluations have taken place in the law. This is what has been said after, as I said earlier, that it cannot be seen as being the official comment and therefore repeated in the Agency's reviews. Based on the data available in these areas and on the much defences we have here in various other contexts regarding the personal protection of those who look to the country for protection, this does not in some way compare with the whole picture. It seems here that while the rest of the lawsuits are in the defense, they will give up their personal protection or, in any case, give the amount of space that can be justified. It would be curious to try to figure out what causes this different approach to the protection of people who seek protection in this country. I'm waiting for the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u17	Mr. President. I was tracking population development in several countries and linking points I mentioned before, on the other hand, the growing spread of communication technology and the fact that as the quality of life grows, the more people are likely to leave the country and look for other things. The reason I run these things is because I think it's necessary to put the subject in context to show what it is to have. I mentioned that in Nigeria, in 2050, 450 million people would already be more populous than the United States. In Uganda 100 million people in 30 years, and even Niger, the poorest nation in the world, would be more populous than Russia by the end of the century. I need to correct myself from earlier when I mentioned that Chad is the largest center of public transport and these gangs smuggling people. It is in Niger, in this poorest kingdom in the world, but the current also passes through Chad, which is now almost as poor, unfortunately. But this center is in the desert city of Agadez, the main center of smugglers in Africa. But the same is true of Niger and Chad that its inhabitants are not leaving it, are not fleeing, they are simply too poor. The European Union tried to cope, and it must now be said, Mr. President, to the European Union, despite all the perspiration issues, try to create some incentive that reduces the flow, i.e. Unfounded shelters. However, the European Union offered strength in exchange for leaving transport in Niger. The result? The funding was paid, the migration just continued, but the secrecy grew and thus the danger. I saw in a news story at CNN's television station about this center in Agadez, Niger, where they went over that area as a terrorist training camp. However, not far from the city of the new U.S. Air Force military base, a military base for bombs. And why did the United States come up in this place? Yes, because, in spite of everything, the situation in Niger is more stable than in most neighboring countries, where Islamists have made such an effort that the Americans can fly from this base with their pull and drop their bombs in all directions. The French actually have a military base there, too. What does this have to do with anything? Yes, Europe, the Americas, and the Asian countries go that way, in fact, for the prominent Chinese. The growth in these countries will be tremendous in the years ahead, not only the population growth but also the economic growth, including economic growth. by resource consumption. If the highest. The president watched previous talks, and he knows what that will mean. However, while the application to reach Europe's cities, London, Munich, Stockholm, etc., will remain large, this will not change the prevalence of these cities compared with growing cities in Africa and Asia. But before I get to that, I guess I'll have to take a break. That's what the clock says, and I pray for it. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u18	The president wants to say that early at this meeting the president was presented with a program that reads: ▪ It makes its suggestion in accordance with 1.mgr. 77st. the Council of Parliamentary Congress that the next meeting will be held as a part of the program proposed by the President of the Generals, except that the program of the meeting will take 595th case, a bill to correct the change in foreign law, international protection. This proposal is requested to be submitted in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, however. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. According to Article 77, par. Congress will take a position on this matter at the beginning of the next meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u19	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: ▪ It makes its suggestion in accordance with 1.mgr. 77st. the Council of Parliamentary Congress that the next meeting will be held as a part of the program proposed by the President of the Generals, except that the program of the meeting will take 595th case, a bill to correct the change in foreign law, international protection. This proposal is requested to be submitted in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, however. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. The president wants to state that he felt it right to take some time to identify this proposal because it is somewhat unusual in relation to the program proposed by the president of the previous session. The custom has been that the program proposals have been about taking a case on the program so that it had quite a different merit than the previously seen by the president. Nevertheless, the president considers it correct, on the terms of the 1st. 77st. It means that members of Congress can carry points that have to do with a meeting program, that there is a vote for the proposal, and now the president will vote for it. While discussions are not to be expected, there is no exception to talking about a vote in relation to a program proposal. However, there is no doubt about giving an opportunity to comment on a vote or to give a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u20	A respectable president. Here is a very special matter and an example of the right to choke a matter at birth. This is before any objective discussion can be made at the legislature board, where different viewpoints can be addressed. Then an attempt is made by certain members of the administration body to choke the matter out of birth. They are members of a council who would like to identify themselves with a great democratic love, but this is now all respect for democracy. Hv. paritaprevir This is Gísli Ólafsson's address last night on the conference talk that if this case were to be scheduled, there'd be nothing here in the propeller, there wouldn't be going to be any further. This, of course, reflects the attitude of any member of the government stand, why this indistinguishable code of speech that has been practiced here for a long time is in the field. I believe, a respectable president, in this situation, it is important that at this time we announce that the council will stand at least. published in June so that a proper discussion can be conducted on the issues under consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u21	Mr. President. Here is a very unusual suggestion, and new standards are being set. It is thus said that here in the hall are members of the council who feel that it is right to prevent a controversial debate about a case that they are opposed to and have had a big report about. So it is the new method that if you oppose it, if you think it is wrong, then there should be no perfunctory debate at the council or members of the council. How low can you lie down when talking in the Senate Hall? How low can anyone be when someone tries to prevent us from having a word - about - the - word exchange? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I challenge the government council members to stop this mess from happening. [[The president calls.]] [[I challenge it. Councilmen showing respect for speech class.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u22	President. I agree with my fellow soldiers before me, it's certainly our duty here to speak to our convictions, but it's a real help to believe that we're not going to allow matters to be planned, discussed, and reasoned. That's the job. As already noted, it is absolutely obvious that there is a rhythm here, and, in fact, has been for a few weeks, that it should only prevent it. Nothing new is that the smaller part wants to be, and no doubt it feels like it should be in more parts. There's nothing new about it. However, it is surprising that the less part is now taking part as well as taking part in the democratic mandate of a council and its role. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u23	Mr. President. This council hall is here to discuss matters, to draw out different viewpoints, and then send out cases for further implementation in committees, where we call out for reviews, and then take a position on the matter, each from our own convictions. I believe that in controversial matters, it was very important that we do things that way and that they take up material discussions about them. It may be hard, but it is not to try to push things away with such programs. So in the left movement, we'll vote against it but then participate in the discussion when it comes to it. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u24	A respectable president. As I mentioned yesterday, we've been watching this for a few weeks how the government situation will not accept its role and has prevented this discussion from being discussed. Many of these categories, including If a person makes this suggestion, he has a alleged democratic love, always talking about the importance of democracy, but he can't follow it. So now we see that they do not want material matters to be taken off the program. What shall we hear so much? What have we heard many times, and what will be heard next? It will be: You can't finish this case. There's not been enough time to talk about it. These and other comments have not yet been received, these and others have not had the opportunity to discuss the matter. - No, it's not working because we can't get things through 1st. and there's been no way here to be another month. And then there's the same party, and they say, "There's no time, and everything's worked so fast here. [[The president calls.]] It's because they won't let the matter go to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u25	A respectable president. A lot of talk here is that it is necessary to talk things over. Great. But it's just a matter that finds out, it's only a matter of government origin. A case from my section can't get up here in the Senate Hall. [[Up front.]] It just doesn't mean much. They can only get through 1st. And then no more. Why not let some matters from the government side to a vote, for a talk around a vote? I have a lot of good stuff, and others, that could quite be discussed. It seems that there are others who are afraid of democratic discussions other than the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u26	Mr. President. I think this is a critical time for these years that I have attended a council, a minimum. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these ideologies are presented here, how would it be handled by the majority of parties if it should just be suggested to throw matters out of the council? So the democratic love, the democratic love meant to be related to this case, and to the group that's going on here, I think you should consider only in the large context of what's going on. It would clearly be possible to shorten the duration of the council if the greater portion would simply throw out matters in constant order to recommend such a program. I will definitely vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u27	A respectable president. It is, as we have seen, a very special subject, and quite clear how the government's members want to operate here. They want to ban discussion about certain matters. They want to shut them out of this chamber. That is, I suppose, just an unprecedented, respectable president. The tone of speech here has been practiced in the past few weeks, and months will result in the failure of a matter to be discussed, to the treatment of Congress in committees. It was called for by a diplomat for my case to reach 2nd. We are waiting for them to arrive. Um... for reviews and concierge treatment. I count and reiterate it, a respectable president, in view of the circumstances here that it is important that the Senate should be made aware sooner than later that we will have to work here to begin with at least in June months and in the summer because of the reactions that have been practiced here in the past few weeks and months. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u28	President. We're having a weird meeting week, one week between two weeks off. Therefore, the time in this hall is a limited resource, and it is amazing that it is the highest priority of the government to set up the foreign bill for the third time it will appear here at the Senate Hall, the third time it should be put on schedule as top priority. [[Up front.]] It's a matter of detracting from humanity to escape. That's the priority of the government. My daily proposal is not about shutting down or killing things. It is simply about pushing it over to weeks, where we have more time to work it, to discuss it as much as it needs to be done. Today, members of the board of directors can show whether they represent the humanity or with Jón Gunnarsson's son, whether this is also the priority of the members of the Congress. And unfortunately, Mr. President, it seems to me from the vote table that every member of the board of directors is just playing with this disgusting foreign bill. [[The president calls.]] How sad!
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u29	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, over the length of a conference, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Congress puts on. Do they want a vote? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] They want a vote, and they ask for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u30	To answer, Minister of Food, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Culture and Business and Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u31	President. The discussion of responsibility and trust has been loud in these last days. Political responsibility is the basis for trust and trust in the public. Trust is the glue that holds society together. That's what I think. A minister knows well, and she is concerned about the security of her work and her government. Yet, in spite of this, the majority of the government officials seem determined to obtain responsibility, a responsibility that you would have thought should be an important factor in a matter in which public trust is at stake. However, the sale of the bank revealed that there had not been a single spirit in the government's arrangement for the export. V.E.G. In press interviews, a secretary of business said that at a meeting of the Ministers on the economy, she was critical of the arrangement, e.g. on the grounds that quality of the future should get priority over prices and that the collapse should be especially difficult. The secretary of business seems to have been telling the truth, for the sale went very wrong. We sold bridges with questionable past letters at discounts, insiders, and workers of Iceland banks were allowed access to the trade, sales companies were paid to buy, the father of finance minister was involved, and so on. President. I'm finding you at the highest. The Minister of Business Residents is important, especially in view of the fact that the Minister's Committee is intended to be the basis for consultation and harmony with the financial revision. So the arrival and comments of a businessman must weigh heavily on all decision makings. So I would like to ask a minister: How did the prime minister and financial minister react to critical views? Business minister of the Ministers' Committee? Were they taken seriously? Why were legitimate concerns and prognostications ignored?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u32	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the question and the entrance and tells her I wholeheartedly agree on her trust. Trust is probably one of the most important and most mobile forces in society, i.e. without trust, making progress is very difficult. This means there has to be trust within the governments, there must be trust in this chamber, and good trust must be exercised so that we can work together. We can also look to those in whom there is little trust. It's just that they're doing rather badly. So you're right about what you're talking about. A senator's sense of trust is of utmost importance. Hv. A senator will direct a question to me about the response of prime minister and economic and economic minister regarding any concerns or doubts I had in this regard. I can inform the council that they too were concerned. It was so that the proposal from the State's Bank Office suggests that this approach is to maximise the price of this property and that this method is the one that is applied worldwide. I just have to admit that I had some doubts about this, especially in view of the fact that there was a huge financial breakdown and the trust in an Icelandic community. This is extremely serious, and thousands of families lost their homes and were in great pain. Hence, it was extremely important that we be careful and take note of the importance of trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u33	President. It's interesting to hear the highest. A secretary of the business said that a minister of finance was sharing her concerns about the process that was decided to take place. This proposal of the Bank Office, it was decided to go that way, despite the concern of all of the members of this group, this Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. There was now more than one suggestion. It must be surprising that a decision was made to go this way while all three ministers were concerned about it and the results. During an interview with the Morning Press, the highest point was made. Business minister rightly stated that the political responsibility would be expected for the politicians that the decision made, that the debt could not be totally turned over to the rulers of the bank. How should a minister of finance who chose to go this way despite his concerns and other ministers who served on this committee take responsibility for the decision they made? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u34	A respectable president. I believe that the debate that has taken place here at the Assembly Hall and at the government stand, and the strong responses to this sale, is just an example of how enlightened Icelandic society is, and that the Minister's office has even underestimated how short it is since the financial collapse, and I believe that all of us, of course, are taking this to heart. Hv. A senator asked about the responsibility of the secretary of finance and economic affairs, but I believe that he has already begun to accept that responsibility by asking for a federal opinion. [[Up front.]] We'll see that Iceland's Secret Bank gets into this thing right now and we're looking at if anything has gone wrong with sales and individual parties. [[The president calls.]] I don't think I'll even think about taking a closer look until I see what comes out of that investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating the state of presence. The minister of culture and commerce here at the Congress Hall, and the nature of the matter, according to the question, is involved in the property of the public in Iceland. V.E.G. Business secretary is a financial and financial expert. It is precious to have such knowledge in a government as well as in a three - man Ministerial Committee on Economics and the future financial affairs. Therefore, whether it is a suggestion for an increase in bank tax increase or a warning message, when it comes to sales treatment at the hands of the public in Iceland, it is listened to. A respectable president. Yesterday, an open meeting was held at night. The legal committee, which arrived as director and director of the government's banking office, took care of the sales initiative on behalf of the secretary of finance. When asked, the chairman of the Minister's administration made unquestionably an end to the law on selling property in financial contributions. His words were to understand that they had carried out only in accordance with law, i.e. under the command of the highest order. Secretary of finance, gave him suggestions on choosing and offering those who ended his power on sales advice, which was repeated. That's why I want to ask the highest. Business Minister: Is it in agreement with what is stated in the law, and it was expressed in the words of the bank administration on the responsibility of the Supreme Court? The secretary of finance of the process and its authority in these materials is the one who determines the options and methods from the start to the final sale?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u36	A respectable president. I appreciate the question, and I agree with that. It is clearly stated in the law who is responsible, so in my mind it is clear, and as I explained earlier today, I believe financial and economic ministers are already taking on the responsibility for this sale. But I'd also like to mention and add that it is that the state banking agency originally brings the proposal into the Minister's Committee. That's what she does. She does this after consulting with experts, both local and foreign. I'd like to mention it in this context, Mr. Honorable President, that there were doubts about this approach with all counsellors, and it also shows that the first part of the sale was extremely successful. Then we reached the goals that were natural; spread possession, open, and transparent, and exactly as to do things. A respectable president. I thought, " If it went so well last time -- and there wasn't any default, it's difficult to sell a bank, a systematicly important property, and I have to say I was pretty proud of how it worked. ' At that time, I thought it was strange that we changed that way because it went well. But I agree with what. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u37	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Here, it is a key factor in a secure state that is sold on government property and even greater when it comes to selling state banks on account of history. There is nothing particularly reassuring that a person who may have broken the law himself has undergone an investigation. It's Generalis to do it, not an alleged offender. But because of our trust, members of Congress and the public, we must be confident that ministers sitting at the table when decisions about sales and sales therapy are taken will be made clear and that the people will be informed of the slightest doubts that may arise. Now it's got the highest. A minister of business said that he had doubts about how the sale took place and that they all had doubts and that the situation that appeared to us after the bank sale was over, did not surprise her, but possibly, and did not include the counsellors. As a result, it was the highest. Prime Minister at the highest. A businessman wouldn't have booked anything, but she would have had doubts, and I'm asking the highest. Minister: What caused her to change her mind at the table? [[The president calls.]] Why did she not follow her own expertise? [[The president calls.]] Why did she not inform the council during this discussion? [[The president calls.]] Would we not agree that those who receive all the detailed information on the subject will come here and inform us of their doubts? [[The president calls.]] Where is the responsibility of the Minister who handled the case on this Ministerial Committee? Secret information about the law, a respectable minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u38	A future question in unsubstantiated queries is one minute, not a half.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u39	A respectable president. I believe that the debate that takes place here at the council these days is very important because when the financial collapse occurred, this trust went down. I think it is good for society to see a government opposition and the government discuss these matters in a critical manner. The questions raised are certainly right. This is how the matter will be considered. A public opinion will take a look at it. The late bank is going to do the same. I simply don't think it's appropriate to pass judgment until that conclusion has come. It also happens that although I think that I'm often very right, I'm not always right. It may be that the way the Bank Office suggested was correct. It's like that, yeah. A senator, that I don't think there is a secret information when you have doubts but I was completely honest with that I thought it was urgent that we would discuss these matters as we are doing now and have not hesitated to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u40	A respectable president. Yesterday, I gave a talk about the banking system in Germany and at the highest level. I would like to review some of the facts about the German banking system. In Germany, a large community bank named Sparkasse has some 50 million customers. Thus, Sparkasse and the cohesion banks in Germany have a market share in public banking. German private banks, with Deutsche Bank in the lead, have 25%. Strangely enough, Sparkasse's profit and cooperation banks are bigger than the private banks, and if profits are made by banks like that, it's all going to the public but not to shareholders. There is tremendous trust in them. Since there is great competition in the German market for community banks, it is inexpensive to be a customer in a bank in Germany. If we were, for example. with a community bank in Reykjavík - this is often regional - and he showed financial benefits at the cost, e.g. in building a gymnasium, something that is for the good of society, or something else. That's how the community banks operate in Germany. At the People's Tracks, we have felt that one group at a council should not sell any banks until we have fixed some vision of the type of banking system we want to see in Iceland for the future. We are very scared, as do the public today, of the recurrence of the history of the bank. The unique banking system is more delicate than a variety of banking systems. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if the government has discussed what kind of banking system it provides in Iceland for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u41	A respectable president. Yes, it was published by a white book on the banking system during the last term that was guided by the design of the future financial system. I believe that even though we had completed the White Book, there are many lessons we can learn from the German banking system, and it is true that the old savings had the same ideologies. I believe we've just been doing a little bit of cutting off the savings system that was thinking, like, right now. A senator described it as a cooperative attitude that is now very much written by us candidates. I don't think we should completely rule it out, just not at all. I believe that we should be open to further financial institutions as a means of promoting their community and offering a useful service that is inexpensive. So I agree with what. A senator says that this is something we should consider. We should not let the collapse, the financial collapse, completely shape our view of what went wrong with the old savings.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u42	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. A minister for the answers but also wants to stress that a tenant policy is important to banking. Therefore, special laws must be negotiated if a community bank, a state bank with the same tenant policy as any private bank is not a community bank. I just wanted to stress it. I'm a bit of a future, but now I'm going to go into the past just because I thought it was a little funny that I'm standing here in the same position as the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir on September 14, 2015. With the permission of the president, I'd like to quote her speech: 'It caught my attention in April when the advance party held that there was a somewhat significant conclusion that it was not to be.' - Then I go directly to the question: The forward party has been taking the initiative in the discussion of making the Lands Bank a community bank over the years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Would you like to continue that discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for quoting the words of the prime minister and referring to the Tenet Assembly of the Prosecutors of September 14, 2015, discussing whether the Lands Bank should become a community bank. I have to say that at first I had certain doubts about that, but I'm becoming much more positive and that we should consider that there is a need to increase the diversity of the Icelandic financial market, and we need to be seriously concerned about how to form service income. They are very big in comparison with the rest of the North countries. I intend to use myself in that area as a competitive minister and to evaluate it, as well as the comparison between Icelandic financial companies and North countries, to find out what the difference is and how to improve the quality of services and to provide the necessary support. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u44	President. It was political news about Easter at the time of the climax. A minister of business reported publicly that she was opposed to the way the minister of finance suggested and went through the sale of the government's property in Iceland Bank. She would have made that clear in the leading of an invitation. She would not have wanted a letter to be sold to the selected group of investors, and, above all, that she was not surprised at the outcome. The message was clear, and they understood: They did not listen to me. It is obvious that prime minister and financial minister resisted the warnings. The letters were given to an elected group of discounts. A secretary of business who deals competitively in the government has both professional knowledge and experience in this field. Yesterday, the Bank Board at a meeting of the panels said that the greatest fault of this sale was the conflict of interests that now faces the nation. They are all wrapped up in the sale, for it is so that chosen ones and their father were allowed to buy discounts. I admit that I felt it as a trivial kick when groups of fellow workers answered the minister's words with nothing else that there is no accounting. They have never been able to deny that these were the words of the Minister, which it confirms here today. Everyone knows that if a secretary of business had booked a prime minister for a three-man Ministerial Conference on the third largest privatization in history, that would be tantamount to breaking up this administrative community. That's what the prime minister knows. But I wanted to ask the highest. Business minister to how she felt when her own boss failed to follow her advice. Did the head of the advance party tell him why he chose to rule it?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u45	A respectable president. As I have considered, the minister of that matter may have doubts and express them well. It is also so that not all warnings necessarily need to be fulfilled. I had in mind, though, that Iceland is a very small community, and those who work in the Icelandic financial market - it's just that it's quite close between the parties. Because of the sensitivity of this case, I always felt that it would be best to have this general, open, that everyone could participate, and that the market would see to it what the future of property would be. The role of the chairman and vice president of the advance party is excellent and has been since our appointment as chairman and vice president. Of course, when we are discussing these matters, not all of us always agree. It's just that sometimes it becomes clear how things develop. I don't know. A member of the Parliament is expected to review the matter and also the frame of the council. Then it will be revealed if anything has gone wrong between the dealer and the way it was all. I think it's clear that a clearer frame needs to be on these issues, and it turns out. I think we can say that, without U.S. Reconnaissance and the Federal Bank being held, it might have been better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u46	President. V.E.G. The secretary of business is here to confirm that the head of the advance party was rolling over it. She says: "Not all of us agree. We know the outcome. We know that this is how 83% of the nation is hurt. After the sale, the nation has a sense of scrotum to stand here and talk about how they may have known only that they were going the wrong way. The third largest personalization in history, 53 billion, is a thrill to notice. I'm here to say that the Minister of Business is breaking up with the Minister's Code. It did not reveal the nation, it did not reveal the council. She seems to have informed the advance leader of the advance party who'll run over her. But I'd like to ask a secretary of business about other words that also fell during Easter and drew my attention and included political news when she said that there would be something else in this case in the days ahead. What was the minister referring to there?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u47	A respectable president. I'd like to make it clear that the head of the advance party has never set foot over the forward plan, just to be perfectly clear. There's nothing more than a good thing to say and cooperate with the chairman of the forward party. Working with Ingi Jóhannsson, it's really good to work with him. So I put down a word or two. A senator, to come here and try to describe us in the way that she has done. That's embarrassing her.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u48	Answer the questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u49	Answer the questions, highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u50	A respectable president. The morning issue of April 11, as quoted in the morning newspaper, said that it was best. The cultural and business minister that she was not in favor of the methodology of sales in Iceland and would have objected to the sale of the stocks for the selected group of investors -- I hope that this is just quoted by the highest power. Minister. In this regard, she has made it clear. Now it has been discovered, or I believe it is at least the conclusion of an open meeting with the Bank County yesterday, that the letters were not even sold to any selected group, but to those who reached the table to make an offer and met some point after explaining what constitutes suitable investors, all except two foreign investors to whom a foreign dealer considered them to be too quick. Thinks the Minister that the sales in Iceland Bank may have been... Is it not consistent with what was presented at a meeting of the Ministers on the budget of February 4 with the Bank County? Iceland Bank became part of the Icelandic government, with the so - called stability of the state's fallen banks - this I know to the highest. Minister knows everything so much better than I - in the government of each other. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. It was a unique operation. I'd like to ask you: Minister to the sale of the bank today, which it also says is systematicly important and one of the most valuable possessions in the state, can we compare to any other privatization in Europe in modern times? For it is often suggested in the case of those who, largely behind, explain that this is in harmony with that. And can the Minister also finally inform me if there are any other rules of stock trade in Iceland than in the European Economic Area where the head of Bank County has said that it was surprising that the employees of the sales board bought at the tenders?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u51	A respectable president. Bank management presented the situation so that the method proposed by the Bank Office for Economic Affairs was the most widely used method in Europe. I can, a respectable president, inform the council that when experts, not just one, but a few, in the bank business, foreign counselors, and others, say that this is the best way to go out and that it is designed to maximise the value of the property and that it has been done many times, I am made so that even if I have had much doubts about it, I will listen to specialists. Although I knew the financial market very well after working at the Federal Bank and the World Bank Department for many years, I also felt compelled to listen to Bank County. Of course, people have jobs to advise in this regard. So to answer. This method has been used in many parts of Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u52	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of culture and business for the answer, and I think it's a little bit more clearly drawing up, and it seems obvious that there's a lot to explain. Does the Minister agree with my opinion that it would have been a very serious manual on this business in the Ministry of finance before it began to describe exactly what was required and how it was to be achieved, and by what means and then by other means, from the Bank office to the sales advisors? In view of the tremendous sensitivity of this process, was such a manual ever for discussion or presented to the secretary's meeting on economic issues? Tells you the highest. A minister might suggest that when such an invitation is made to a bank in a European government owner, there is a phone call to a hobbie investor and a fortune - teller and a slice of the cake?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u53	A respectable president. I think it's true that such a personal development is the most successful thing to have - everything must be open, it needs to be beneficial, and everyone has to be able to participate. I believe that the market should take care of how property develops. It's the best thing to do. It's simple. What happens in this sales process is that it is very difficult for the government and the bank administration to have absolute control over what happens then when sales items begin to arrive. It may be that 90% of those who participated in the invitation did everything the way it was supposed to. If there's one or two parties where there's a miscommunication, it'll cloud the whole process. That's why this approach was very risky.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u54	A respectable president. I think there's a reason to draw attention to the top. However, the president must have noticed. Here, it was just a few minutes ago from the highest point of view. The Minister of Culture and Business that all the Ministers of the Ministerial Committee on Economic Affairs had warned against what they were doing. They clearly warned one another and themselves, but they did. I've got the highest attention. Because they did not see reason to inform the council. They did not see reason to inform the council of these concerns, these warnings. It was enough to warn themselves, without even making any reports, but do not discuss the matter here at the council. There must be some response on the part of the Generals when government ministers are acting in this way strongly warn of what they do but keep the council out of the way. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson said just moments ago, and I'd also like to direct it to the president that he should get it to the highest level. Ministers that they respond to their inquiries, not by accident, to members of Congress, but by simply answering the question raised here. V.E.G. The minister of culture and trade proclaimed it in an interview before Easter that it would become more clear about the position of the minister and the warning he then gave. The only thing that was explained during this inquiry period was that it was taken ashore in a very good way. V.E.G. The minister had plenty of time when he finished his answer to the inquiry earlier to complete the answer, there was time left, but it was gone after the foul language was hit. A senator. This isn't working, and I want to get to the top. The president directs the minister to answer questions and treats them with courtesy. A senator. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u56	Mr. President. It was an interesting time of inquiry, and it provides reasons for the matter to be discussed and considered. This was from the highest. Minister not only she but all of the Ministers' Committee have had doubts. It turns out she's at least, at least. Minister, thought this process to be risky without any awareness of it at any time. And finally, it's the highest. A minister sees to it that he avoids answering a question. The senator who quoted it and the minister says much will come to light. The following is a special discussion with the highest. Ministers and I encourage members of the council who take part in this discussion to demand a minister to answer what the minister meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u57	A respectable president. It came to the highest level. It is not surprising that the bank sale would be carried out in a way that is now enlightened by this damage to the Icelandic public. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has declared that it was anticipated that items intended for long-term investors were sold to short-term investors who sold the next day. V.E.G. A businessman's next words show that the discussion is good because it was important to build trust. Where were these ministers when discussions took place at the council in the pursuit of the sale? Where is the responsibility of a minister to inform the council and the nation of what they know but not to inform the Council? [[The president calls.]] The public has been affected, and the Ministers are responsible for this, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Secretary of the business.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u58	A respectable president. That's embarrassing, is the answer of the highest. A secretary of business when I asked her about her own words about Easter that other things would be revealed in this case in the days ahead. I am embarrassed to stand here in the Generals speaking hall looking for answers from the Supreme Court. Councillers on the third largest private development in the history of Iceland. I think the highest. A businessman is telling the truth, she's worried, and she's declared it. I believe, however, that the head of the advance party chose it, and she chose the cooperation, the government business, over the nation's interests. We're living here in a class of special care at the expense of a business minister's orders.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u59	President. I'm just sad. Seriously. A bank sale was carried out here, and the majority of the people were opposed. Now we're talking about 83% of people who are just hurting after this sale, and it turns out that all the Ministers of this Ministry were concerned about this sale. That's what's at the highest. A businessman is telling us that everyone has had doubts, but he has decided to go this way. However, the secretary of finance decides to go this way, and even keep his arm out, not even knowing that perhaps a little more monitor of this sale, since the path selected was so worrying a minister. Yet he intends to hold his arm. The Declaration of Independence is that a minister of finance has virtually nothing to do with the sale of the bank and the privatization of the bank. [[The president calls.]] It's not okay for these Ministers not to come into this chamber and inform us and the public about their concern and possibly take our judgment to make sure that these sales didn't end up with this awful thing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u60	Mr. President. The one here is now newborns here at the council, but she thought this part of the program would be so that ministers would respond to queries. Senators. I asked the highest. The minister of culture and trade, if she could inform me if the joint legislation in the European Economic Area, which applies to banks and stock trades and services, was not definitely valid here on the land, in its behalf of the Commission's statement that this had never happened since he was a member of the bank. Does anyone do anything else? It's just a technical question I'd like to ask the president to use himself for answering if I may. You see, it is strictly to observe these escapes by the bank authorities when they are in their ram explanations to explain to the expedition they set out on that occasion on February 4 following the meeting of the Minister of Ministers. Also, technical questions need to be answered, not just questions about responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u61	Mr. President. This bank sale case is the case that continues to be given - chosen ones, in fact. When I somehow try to digest the discussion earlier, the picture that the government was simply, well, if not unconscious, would be absent spiritually from all this decision - making process. It's amazing. The answers, the postmortem answers that individual ministers throw out and south and then pull back and improve, depending on how winds blow each time, probably in hopes of choking the matter - it's not going to work. Mr. President. This is where the majority have strongly rejected the government's wish for an investigational committee for the sale. May I submit an investigational committee to the government's work on this matter? I think we can all agree that something interesting would come out of it, possibly the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u62	A respectable president. A man must ask himself at this point about a minister's responsibilities. Coming up here in a pit and describing the warnings left falling behind. I have not had a single knowledge of all this time that all government ministers have been concerned about this offer. How is it that we were not informed of this alleged concern for a minister before the decision was made? And I don't recall, after sitting on both a financial and financial committee and a financial committee, that the government committees had one single word about this concern. Then, after the baby is dropped, everyone says: " Yes, we gave a warning, and we were all worried. - Wait, what were you chosen for?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u63	A respectable president. Some in this committee, these three advisers, evidently had a monopoly at a mirror. They've talked themselves, said it didn't work out, that it was the wrong methodology, but they went and said, "Yeah, let's just do it wrong." Depravity is rampant. What might be the scariest part of this is that at the same time, right now after this madness business, the Bank Office is drinking wine and eating candy. The question is, When will they shoot up the rocket? When will they finally rejoice in this marvelous accomplishment that they did there? Let us not forget, too, that the cost of each sale was more than 3 million today. At the same time, there's 7.2% inflation and people out there who don't have food. 90,000 k could be set. tax and decrepit for 8,000 people for this coin, just this one. If we take the entire sum, 24,000 individuals could receive 90,000. tax free.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u64	A respectable president. Let us see that here we have a group in the government that did not really receive democratic authority. They needed to assemble to take greater authority. None of these classes received a clean part in the election. They have to negotiate, make a majority of covenants about how they will rule. They take that power. Let's figure it out. But the authority to accept responsibility. There's no responsibility here, no responsibility. We hear warnings coming back and forth and all responsibility be placed on the bank or on sales advisers, something other than the people taking over the power. That is not the case. Power comes with responsibility, and those who support such government, irresponsible government, are then general members of the administration. This is the majority of the part that supports irresponsible control.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u65	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, mentioned the damage to the Icelandic state, that the public had been harmed. Let us consider the facts only when the claim is made. The government took over the bank. It's made a great deal of money from Iceland Bank. [[Up front.]] It has now sold parts of the bank, and 108 billion - 108 billion have paid off into the state funds. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] 80 billion in the form of remuneration, and we have the largest share in the bank that is likely to be worth more than 100 billion. [[Up front.]] So this is all the damage the public has done, all the damage, all this money that has slipped into a government fund. [[Up front.]] If we are really going to do what is important to rebuild trust in the financial market, we need to review what has gone wrong, of course. But it was not harm to the common people; it is a violation of a measure of trust. That's why I'd like to encourage you. Senators when we consider this discussion to be perfunctory. [[The president calls.]] Let's talk about the facts, why insiders and bankers can buy in Iceland but can't do it abroad. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] To prevent this, what must we change? Let's prevent salesmen from selling themselves and their friends. [[The president calls.]] Let's review these shows, but let's set up the facts that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u66	We stick to the part of the talk that is presented in these discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u67	A respectable president. Just for word's sake. paritaprevir Just moments ago, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's daughter can echo that speech with a few words: There was no collapse. There was no damage to the public, and then the government got the banks in its arms. For what was observed in the highest range. I must mention that it was said here: 'I can inform the council that they too had such concerns,' and refer to prime minister and financial minister. The prime minister and secretary of finance were similarly concerned about the outcome that came from the decree to the highest degree. The secretary of commerce has revealed that it provided. She comes in for an interview and says: "I had a warning. I saw it coming as a mess. And now it is informed that the minister of finance and prime minister had similar concerns. [[The president calls.]] Yet, this method has proved to be a complete failure from beginning to end. It is now urgent that the nation be informed of what happened during these Ministerial Conferences when these decisions were made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u68	A respectable president. There's a lot of concern about what's at the top of it. Minister answered. [[Up front.]] Much concern, doubts, and negative comments about this. But in terms of words, the highest. Ministers that they asked themselves questions in order to sell banks - who didn't? [[Foreground on: Fear.]] [[Foreground on: Fear.]] Have doubts about these methods, asked, received information, called to them experts? Isn't that normal? [[The point is, this is not what was said.]] Where were your concerns about the same material for sale? [[Up front.]] I missed it. [[Up front.]] We missed it, we want to see it. [[Up front.]] For the sale. But let's think... [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Let us keep asking ourselves and asking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u69	The president must ask members of the Parliament to keep silent while the speakers are in the public speaker's seat. This meeting cannot be resumed if seven senators are calling in for the same speaker at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u71	A respectable president. I'm not going to talk about a meeting board right now. A word of the highest order. Business minister earlier was quite remarkable. Iceland's been down four times about the banking system. That was in 2003 when the bank was privateised. The second time in the 2008 collapse. For the third time, when Iceland went to the world's black list of antiquities measures. We went to a list of nations with whom we have exactly no place to go. The fourth humiliation took place in Iceland Bank, now in March. We received a little justice after the fall of 2008, when the General's study report came out and issued its decision, their opinion was that several ministers and officials had been guilty of neglect. We also received justice when the office of a special prosecutor was established to handle the criminal charges there. The only way to regain trust, regain the trust of the public, is to establish independent of the board of inquiry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the only way. And it's just an attempt to get your trust back. I'm not saying it's gonna come.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u72	A respectable president. I'd like to say things, but I'm going to concentrate on them. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir here said about the big movie. Clearly, the issue is ideological, since the only thing that matters is merit. It is said that it did not cost anything at the time. What about the 17% that Iceland's government fund made it into the Secret Bank for the fall of banks? It also speaks of a business venture and that we should be thinking about it. Should we not be concerned about the highest message? A government is sending when it tells the public outside that the only thing that mattered and the big picture is the price? [[Up front.]] Where did this business trip come from? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Where does this business tour come from and need to be investigated if this is the government message, that the big picture was the price? I can tell you what. A senator said that you can sell state property without such sideplaying. This is a very unusual message to send to the public. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u73	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the President for having taken the lead in the Supreme Court. Business and cultural minister will be participating in a special discussion involving the bank collapse later today. The importance of the president's involvement in the Supreme Court is underscored by what appeared in unprepared inquiry hours earlier, and then the special discussion remains to be followed today. The minister of the wood, the chairman of the parish Party, offers an opportunity for a conversation here at the council. There's one day of Congress left this week. We'll have a conference tomorrow. Now I don't know if it's the highest. The Minister of Woods estimates to be present at the council tomorrow, but I would like to have the highest order. In part, the president was told that members of Parliament could have a word with the chairman of the Agency, which came to the decision that had been made in some way by the chairman of the Board of Governments to bring down the Banks County. So there's a puzzle in the picture that's drawing up here that, obviously, there's a need to fill in better, in view of what was said at the top. Minister in unprepared queries class earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u74	Madam President. Of course, what matters is the leading, the political bitch behind the terrible decisions that led to this conclusion. I'm going to have to give a quote. Secretary of the media, her own words. She says, with President's permission: ▪ I did not approve of the methodology that led to the sale of letters in Iceland Bank, wanting general invitations, but not to sell the letters to the selected group of investors. I made these views clear in the leading of an invitation. She also said: ▪ But I'm not sure that the debt can always be attributed to bank officials, and I'm sorry that the matter is simplified. The responsibility must be the politicians who made the decision. True, she has changed her attitude since, the greater part of the government wants to be here in this hall discussing a box of chocolates that Jón in town accepted, not his own decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u75	President. I think it's important that we and Pirata and others in the government stand out in the exact reviews for the bank's sale, but they were not listened to, rather than to the warnings of a businessman, they seem to be, so there was little to it. But let's talk about what's important, let's say. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, how we prevent this from happening again. All right. I completely agree that it matters, too. But trust is also valuable. It's valuable. Money is not the only thing that matters. Trust is the glue of society, and we've broken that trust. The minister of finance has broken that trust, and he cannot be trusted to take the job of putting some frame around it so that such a matter will not come back. Trust is broken, trust is zero. And while there is still a secretary of finance, nothing can be built up and talk about the future financial organization and how Kingdom interests can be sold in the future in a healthy, reasonable way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it is important that ministers be responsible and responsible for such mistakes because trust is all there is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u76	A respectable president. We're supposed to watch the big movie here. Yeah, so why don't you just look at it all? Why are the banks so valuable today? Shall we take a look? Why don't we take a look at some examples of what was done after a crash? Then the State represented the largest social security scale in history to save the banks. There was no negative result of the collapse in the bank, or so no one. Painting against some individuals who still kept everything they had. The databases were then transferred to the new banks at 50% discounting at least and we've heard less than that. This was not returned to the people in the country. On the contrary, the banks saw an opportunity to collect each loan to the top and no mercy. The government did not say nothing. Rather, they acted well, and with their pleas, they paid the workers who went forward and reached most. At the same time, when it was decided to go hard against debt, innocent persons who were alone involved in taking mortgages, the faultmates, themselves the ventaries, obtained some 2,000 billion copies of them. [[The president calls.]] 2,000 billion. Since collapse, the new social security numbers have gained over 1,000 billion. [[The president calls.]] This, the blood of Icelandic households, is the basis for making banks today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u77	Mr. President. How sad it was when we spoke at the time! paritaprevir The Gambles of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. First, the natural mantra that we've got the banks on a plate of silver, which is probably something that tens of thousands of Icelanders had that crashed badly can't even sign. Second, of course, it was the valuable food that happened by the dog. A senator, that money is not just the most important thing, it is, in fact, everything. Screw the breach or the trust that's broken. You see, there have been a number of serious differences between the trust of the government and the beginning of the long - term restoration of trust. - Secretary of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u78	A respectable president. Here is the tone that has recently been in these matters. Trust is everything. It is now created. of the language and credibility of those who speak at any given time. Here's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir that billions of dollars entered the Federal Bank were the expense of the public. It's like taking our own money and entering our own bank, that it's our own expense. Of course, this is completely absurd, and it is done for no other purpose than to mislead the common people. She may be able to tell us about it here and teach us how we can make 80 million from 3 million, as she did in her previous job. [[Up front.]] It is interesting to hear how it is done. This is the highest number of people who wanted to take steps after the collapse of the bank that would have left the Icelandic nation in serious wounds, we would be in debt today and would have trouble getting out of it, i.e. The representatives of the groups that were then in government. The measures that have since been taken in banking make it impossible to repeat what has happened here in the Icelandic world. [[The president calls.]] It's important to keep it up. [[The president calls.]] Thus, it is totally illogical to try to compare this matter to a bank crash. [[The president calls.]] It just doesn't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u79	A respectable president. I'm in a kind of shock after listening to the highest. Minister of Justice and perhaps best to respond to anger. But there was a lot of news here when it was the highest. The minister of culture and trade informed the U.S. Congress not only that it is but also the highest. Financial and economic ministers and the highest. One prime minister would have had doubts and concerns about the route that had gone with the sale in Iceland Bank. Now there are questions like these: How did these doubts and concerns come about in the process, the decisions made by the secretary of finance and economics, and his legal surveillance of Bank County activities? How was this anxiety being followed? This calls for answers in the days ahead. The minister of finance has claimed in the public assembly that the main subjects of the sales process had a lack of transparency and information, and now we may be becoming better aware of where the biggest and most serious problem of transparency lies. He is concerned that not only one but three ministers of the Allied Council of Iceland concealed their doubts and concerns about this process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We were on the government standby for reviews, it's all well documented, but it's secret to the General Information, including The Minister who has the legal role of providing for the General Report on all aspects of the sale. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u80	The President will have to remind you that speaking time in the President's conference board is just one minute, but not twice as much.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u81	A respectable president. They talked about the price tag, how good it would have been, and what a price it's worth. But the fact is, we didn't get the highest possible price. That's totally in the way. This arrangement that was now used resulted in our making a discount, perhaps at a much higher price. It was beyond request, but yet we gave ◯discount, this is uncount in English, and the bank office's memo - they're trying to refute it. This methodology used does not measure the law on the sale of the government's property in financial companies. That's very obvious. I asked you that yesterday. There was no analysis to determine whether this methodology is a law, U.S. law, and it is absolutely certain that government banking and financial secretary do not understand the difference between selling shares in banks by a government fund, a government government, or a private agency. This is clearly seen in the documents available in this case. This contract, e.g. to the sales consultants, this is one of the tiniest documents I've ever seen in my life. [[The president calls.]] There is not one prior responsibility for their sales in terms of their adherence to the law. [[The president calls.]] Some are even under foreign law. [[The president calls.]] And another thing that's going on here -- there's a court in London that's going to settle this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u82	That is true of all of us. The speakers here are only one minute to address the President's meeting board.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u83	A respectable president. In Bank County's corneal presentation, there's also a problem. forward these points, with the permission of the president: To achieve the highest priority of the law No. 155/2012 on practicality i.e. The highest price is laid on the next sale to carry out an arrangement. Premium, highest price. Targets spread. Ownership was reached by a First Mission. That was for the first discharge, there would be no need for a scattered possession in this case, at least not in this point. It adds: An arrangement also minimizes the risk of state funds and costs in the context of an invitation. And so says a respectable president: In this arrangement, it is much more likely that a government fund brings maximum prices and limits on sales. This was what they were looking for, the maximum price, and a scattered possession had been reached. So you ask, "Why was that way, letting someone in?" And why are people now following up and saying, "Well, some stockmen didn't follow the rules? Europe's getting better. This has been done in Europe for decades. Europe is doing well, but it's still a year from now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u84	Madam President. Senators are in a hot mood. Of course, it is understandable in many respects. I still think it's worth coming up here and talking about how there's not a sound picture when it's said there's some big news, whether there's a government minister or a member of Congress, that they're in some situation questioning something that's being made up of, just to be completely reasonable. I don't know about anything I'm doing every day here at the council, but the decision was made like this, and we're on her side. Then I find the strange presentation presented here that focuses on the government's taking some form of authority, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, Gunnarsson. The government is hereby supported by most of the council. It's been very clear. And talking about shouldering responsibility: Of course it is responsibility to ask for a study of this process, and I support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u85	President. There is news when it is said that the secretary of finance has been concerned about this arrangement but will then do nothing to ensure that the most stringent demands have been followed, nothing. Why should someone worry about things, but then, "Oh, when things happen, it just doesn't matter? We're talking about a minister who has all this authority, not just some senator or anyone in town, but a minister who is responsible for carrying out his duties as a minister and including taking care not to become experienced, but that is what happened. So I'll tell you what. paritaprevir Höla Signý Kristjánsdóttir: In my opinion, it was said that the current minister should not be allowed to sell Iceland's bank because he would have shown that he does not live up to its responsibility. It really happened. V.E.G. The minister of finance is not subject to this responsibility, and he is absolutely responsibilities. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u86	Madam President. V.E.G. Minister of Justice is a worthy representative of the Independence Party, who is associated with a state fund, as is the property of the Independence Party, which they may waste at will, not with the common people, as it is. Mantra as dog. paritaprevir The irony of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir was telling us that we had received free of charge from Iceland's Bank is, of course, a real problem. Public damage is the failure of third major privatization of Iceland history. Public demand is to sell at discount when there is an overexplication demand for stocks in the bank, a demand that usually increases prices but does not decrease. A damage is a lack of confidence in the government and is all over it once again, as is always when the Independence Party is in the government. Then trust will collapse because ministers of the Independence Party do not know how to exercise their power. [[The president calls.]] Over and over and over.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u87	President. V.E.G. The minister of culture and commerce came up here and spoke of the rest of the ministers being concerned too. How can the secretary of the country decide to sell our banks worried about how this is going to work? Okay. What does a person who is concerned about something do, and how is this being done? He more closely observes how something is being done. He does not stay away or back up until he has made sure that he does not have his concerns. I can see it as this Icelandic way, it's just gonna work out. It's not gonna work out. It's huge decisions, and it's a contradiction in my mind to worry about something, worry about selling, and then stay away from your worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u88	A respectable president. I have to say, the attitude and approach of my old comrades in the Independence Party that has been reflected here today is absolutely unfathomablely sad. As if a violation of trust is no harm, as if moral transgression is no harm. It's just going on like they didn't learn anything. When this is the attitude, and this is the approach, I'm not surprised that this bank salesman has messed up so marvelously, that it has been in the trust of the public, and it has entered a certain covenant with the nation, for the government has described self - confidence, has ceased to sell further because it realizes that we cannot take further steps before we build trust. All that has been said here today on behalf of the government minister underscores our challenge to the government's opposition that we need a research committee just to roll with all the stones. It's been informed here today to the highest level. The minister of culture and business reports that the Minister's Committee has been expressing doubts, the Minister's Committee has been concerned. We're getting that information today. This emphasizes the need for a research committee that reviews all of this process.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u89	Madam President. First, just a few words on a word or two. paritaprevir Jóhann Friðrik's Friðriksson here. Of course, while I have great respect for all of us private members of Congress, there is a considerable difference between the concern of a minister on the Minister's Committee for Economic Affairs and Reorganization of the Economic System and that is that of a personal bank compared to the concern of our general members, just to be maintained. But I wanted to, at least. The president of Birgir Ármannsson is no longer in the Presidentship, praying to the highest. The president is extending the question of whether it's in the highest range. The secretary of the jury, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, chairman of the Agency, will be at the council tomorrow because I believe it is very important that a body of Congress be created as a place to hold a place of words at the highest level. A minister in view of what was shown in conversations here in an unprecedented question period earlier today. [[The president calls.]] So I raise this question and expect the answer to whether it's in the past. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u90	Madam President. I have to agree that I don't feel, should I say worthy to compare the situation here with the tragic crash we experienced at the time? It was completely different, much bigger than truly serious. Trust matters, and we truly lost it in the collapse. We have been well aware of the length of the time it took us in the United States to reach the place where we are now, which is fortunately much better. I lost my apartment in the collapse, one of the 15,000. I second that we're discussing a case that's about to be investigated. I'm warning you, fine senators - I wish you would, Madam President, that we would try to adjust the discussion here and focus on getting to the bottom of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u91	A respectable president. This is where the singing goes on. Hv. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir snoops into the fact that Iceland hasn't gotten free, etc. Hv. paritaprevir Kristrún Frostadóttir, who might now teach us a number of things, a trip in this financial activity, and published as an expert in that field, speaks of the fact that when we make money in our own bank, it's the cost of the public. This, of course, is all to stir dust and smoke, a respectable president, into the public's eyes, and to mislead the common people. In the collapse of the bank when there was a real difficult situation in this community, when the foundation of society was about to give up, the language shifted from this body of constitution to Icesave agreements and to walk here to negotiate and cancel these assets, which, however, was later achieved to make up the valuables, to European banks and leave behind us with our debts. After the changes made in the government of the Independence Party and the Front Class, including the U.S. it's done well. [[The president calls.]] Today, the threat of resistance is immense, and the situation of homes, companies, and all in spite of tragedy has never been stronger. [[The president calls.]] In this trade, yes, some mistake we can learn from but to compare it with what happened here is, of course, a complete mischievous action, and that is done only to stir dust. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's this debate going on, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u92	I'm not at the top of it. The minister to speak in the President's conference board is one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u93	A respectable president. I would like to follow this request to the president that there will be an extra meeting with unsupervised inquiry to the minister, for since there were a number of gangs at the Bavour Palace, they have not been seen here. I think it's important that we get an opportunity to ask the chairman of the Agency's key questions and that's to be done tomorrow. I would also like to draw attention to the minister of the parish, who was here to provide answers did not answer simple questions, clear questions addressed to him by various members of the council. I'll redirect this to the highest. President. Once again, I would like to emphasize the importance of receiving a committee on this matter. [[The president calls.]] The more members of Congress and Ministers speak, whether of the Independence Party or of the Foreign Party, and well - meaning them, few from the left have spoken here today, the more important it is that we receive a committee of inquiry that can reflect on every rock in this large and large matter based on that ultimately we try to base our trust in the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's our job here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u94	Madam President. It's a kind of dangerous game for government officials to hide at all times when bandits ride over, not answering the media, not showing up at the council, to be gone, and to try to wait their sledgehammer off that way. It's dangerous when the government commits so many lands that they don't stand for it. Therefore, we have not seen the chairman of the forward party here in a house since he made a two - dollar bell in the field assembly, and some have been in the meantime. Hence, the Ministry of Education is not about to answer any comments that happened to the Passover or to answer, but now she leaves more questions than answers in reality. I just want to reiterate the request that has been made before taking another two-week break, which ministers can use to hide from their rattles, will be set up by uncivilized inquiries where the head of the forward party meets a church like a man.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u95	Madam President. Of course, at the highest level, there is some harm. A minister who sat here in the hall a few seconds ago is gone. I'm glad that the head of the committee is sitting here in the hall, boy. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, who has a subtle suspicion of supreme power. A minister can hear me from the side room. What I want in this speech turns to the difference between different categories of candidates for protection. First, I'm going to go to the refugee Commission's guidelines for receiving and helping groups of refugees who deal with so - called hostilists. These rules were published on May 10, 2013. the rules of taking in force assist with refugees by allowing the president: Since its arrival in the country, most people are entitled to receive special assistance for a minimum of one year. Help with what refugees are entitled to, cr. However the rest of this section is: a. Budget support. b. Social counseling. c. Housekeeping, along with the necessary interiors and telephones. For example, education, especially Icelandic, motherhood, and community education. ... andschoolschoolindepth. B. empty-hour job. g. health care and dental. h. Service interprets. i. Help with the job search. j. Another needed help. Ten letters. V.E.G. The minister confirmed in answer to his testimony, and as it is in the name of the bill on this issue, that these groups are being equaled by any route they come to the country. Now I want to go over to the Enlightenment Regulation, No. 540/2017, which says in 2 mgr. 23rd ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ SERVANT falls 14 days from the release of the decision to protect a person [...] and from that time on, he will likely fall under the direction of a rural society, as it were, in the same way as the rest of the people living here. But the question stands, and that's why it would have been so good if the highest. A minister would be here near the hall, possibly in response or speech: Where is expected from the impact of receiving, as stated by the provided rules, where the frame is in which the greeting workers have the right to receive special assistance for a minimum of one year, and then the ten letters I listed - where are expected to cost the change compared to the position they are now working in accordance with? It says: "The service of the slave falls 14 days from the release of the decision to protect a person. " This episode takes place 14 days after protection is given for at least 12 months, for a minimum of one year. The lack of an assessment of the effects of this event is non- controversy, and I think it is necessary for this issue to be addressed between the 2nd and 3rd. I simply wondered, " Is it not reasonable to think that the matter would work out? ' The budget board, in view of the possible costs this may result in an entirely unique factor in addition to what we talked about yesterday, which is about this so-called "poll factor', which is likely to be more attractive for applications. But just this difference - the question of the highest degree. Minister, because I don't think it's fair to direct this question to why. paritaprevir Because this is not discussed in the committee opinion, Jódís Skúladóttir as the head of the committee, perhaps understandable because it's being published in the bill's report - I need to have more to say about it, topv. President, request to be reassigned.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u96	Madam President. It has led some of us to wonder, which has been discussed on this matter how little interest is on the side of the governmental parties, though not on this issue to explain it. Their participation in discussions is virtually none, though this is a very important policy objective, a case that I give myself, in every other part of the North countries, would attract great attention and much discussion. The government seems to depend on this matter simply going through without having to explain what it is doing with it. In the past, verbal exchanges under unprepared queries may explain some of this. Maybe it doesn't have to surprise us altogether because it's a government that was founded as a system administration founded on something completely different from politics. In this way we now hear in another important matter that has been under discussion, the privatization of Iceland Bank, that all Ministers of the Ministry of Economics warned of what they did so themselves. Then you wonder about this: When the damage is done, when the effects of this begin to appear, and the real cost appears, the Ministers, ordered to respond, come up here and say they warned, in fact, just on closed meetings, did not have a book but they had a specific warning, but this was just what the system wanted to do? Can we expect that? At the very least, they rely on each other. Councilmen and the highest. The Ministers of the Management Board do not see to appear here and defend this case. When last night's discussion ended, I was beginning to review the scope of this great refugee problem, the increase in the world's trustrs, and that is a huge challenge. I don't have to tell you that it's the biggest topic of our day. It must then require that we identify the situation, determine how it really is to find solutions that work. I was starting to cross the scale and had even started. Name the fact that trustrs or people who leave their homeland do not reduce with increased prosperity. As a result, there is an increase. That's a good sign. As prosperity increases, and as people get access to information, they make money to buy trips, as this increases the number of people who leave the country and look for other things. This increase continues until national income is $7,500 a year. But the increase won't stop, first it's subtracted. What's sometimes said, and I'll admit that I've sometimes mentioned this myself, that we have to deal with the refugee problem with the country with greater support. It will not reduce the number of refugees and refugees, it will increase them. Nevertheless, I bear in mind that I strongly believe that the Western countries have every option to promote the growth and increase prosperity in developing countries. As a result of this fact about what would be expected with increasing interest in countries around the world, I followed up next to the population in these developing countries, which hopefully will improve prosperity and, as a result, a number of people who would look elsewhere. I turned to the size of these lands and to the development of the population, which is somewhat predictable. [[The president calls.]] But I must go to it, Madam President, in the next speech and ask you to register me on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u97	Madam President. In view of the fact that much of yesterday's discussion took place, so to speak, under the shelter of night, I'm going to remember here something that I spent a few hours in. Take now five minutes to frame it for monitors. In the current bill, there are various objectives and ways to improve the rights of a multicultural site to work with personal information and to seek ways to improve the link between those who come into the country and gain protection from rural communities or those that are suitable for health care or other advice. It is all good and blessed in itself. But what I find obvious is that these goals can all be achieved without giving the four groups that are added now and that they did as much as the so - called hostpowerrs have the added rights to the greeting stand. It is simply unbelievable that the cost of such an outcome has not been evaluated at all. In my first talk, I went over the comparison just to workaholics and work ethics on how to receive the greeting today and the Regulation as it says about the effects of gaining protection. There's a fundamental difference. If it is a political wish to settle this, it will be successful. But it is vital that we make some assessment of the impact, not only social but financial as well. So I now wonder if this matter is not necessary between 2 and 3. to the budget committee where this would be evaluated, because there is plenty of time to complete the case when a council will be assembled for over a month after a break in the county government. It is not acceptable for us senators to take sides in such a matter as this, since the minister is going both in the text of bill and in the paper and in his speeches and in the answers of a hot cat, and not discussing the cost of the matter. Then I'm just talking about the costs that you can get around, just by means of a simple calculation. The second is then completely suspended, i.e. The secondary effects of this are found to be my concern and our concern in the middle category of reasoning, and this change has an effect on so-called Šplall factor◯, an increase in the number of applications, and perhaps a number of non-profit applications, which so weigh heavily on the system that it will be more difficult to help them effectively and support adjustment in a Icelandic community we can take on. I've talked about it, just so I can hold it back, we're supposed to do well in these matters, and we're supposed to welcome the people we're gonna take care of. But we shouldn't get too involved, because it will not only have negative effects on those who come here and want to be adapted to the Icelandic community for many reasons, but it will also have a negative effect on society's discussion. I think there's a lot of work to do in avoiding that trend and situation. So I don't think it's simply acceptable for the International Assembly of Iceland to be in this position where there are direct financial impacts, which are completely different from the 40.8 million that are expected to be protected in order to buy chairs, desks, and hire three employees for the work, are left entirely between parts, i.e. the amount of these extra rights of the person listed here and then plan on how many applications and how these cases are and the secondary effects this may have on a number of applications. This does not involve any negative attitude toward the people coming here. Rather, we need to have a solid ground for these decisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u98	Madam President. Still wakes you up. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's attention to things here that would be very tempting to respond and add only in the discussion, but I intend to resist that temptation for now. Today, there may be opportunities to respond to some of the factors that may arise. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason has mentioned because I am here to review a context, a general picture of this series of languages. But still, Mr. President, I can't afford to comment on the significance of the fact that this matter is now being discussed in the political context. Here at the beginning of a meeting, there was some discussion on the program and particularly on the top issue. A minister of justice, so - called foreigners, would be on the program. It has just been added to the back of the program, far below anything that can be considered practical for a discussion today or the following days. But how does this case come to the top of the program on the part of the government while a matter of the same matter is held in place by the Minister of the Supreme Minister? The minister of the Independence Party is set at the bottom of the program, where there is little chance that it will succeed? And not only are we here at 2nd. We're in the main debate on this big case, this fundamental policy change in the affairs of the trustees. The rest of the matter is about to take care of 1st. or, in fact, at least Third attempt to get it through 1st. How is it that the Independence Party, the largest government category, allows itself to establish the focus of the left movement, and possibly the candidate, to the extent that they have a head idea of what is being suggested here, to the top, but their own case, which has waited much longer and three highest. Justice ministers have tried to come through at the bottom of the program? Why not make them at least suggest that these matters be discussed? Does it not show how weak the independence party feels in this administrative work that he needs all the tractors that other members of the board offer him? At least I thought answers were the best. The minister of culture and trade at the unprimed time of inquiry today indicates that it is already at the highest level. A minister withdrew by visualizing everything with who would head for Iceland's bank but said that the highest. The minister of finance would also have warned about what he himself did, despite the Supreme Court. The minister of finance has had no word of it and, in fact, was very pleased, at least in public declarations on these matters. The reason why I mention this in relation to this case is that these are all evidences of the same, that the Independence Party is primarily to try to keep sea in this management business and to continue to agree with one and another that can become a major problem and including a policy point to this major group, this huge number of cases, which goes not only against the sisters of the Independence Party's policy in other parts of the North countries, but, contrary to the social policy of the Sosican group. All of this, however, swallows the Independence Party just to keep seawater at an apparent rate. But there has to be a review of this matter in this context, and we have to assume that when it becomes apparent, if it is accepted, someone will say that they were either not informed of the actual impact of the case or were concerned, as if it were the case in Iceland, and perhaps warn, but just not that much about it publicly, they did not book anything about it, but they were concerned. I'm going to predict that we'll hear some kind of declarations like this going to be approved and the effects will be evident. But I had mentioned it here that I was trying to keep threads in a particular context with this big subject. [[The president calls.]] - I see time has passed and wait for the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u99	Madam President. I want to recall in view of the fact that I believe only to the highest. Guðbrandsson's still in the house, with the newcomer from the hall, answering the highest. Minister to my objection when he recommended the case on February 1 of the past. V.E.G. A minister went through his transport address with the information presented, as is just the main objective of the so-called joint withdrawal of refugees, or as is stated in a committee program with a new proposal, by permission of a president: Whether it comes to the country on its own, by the government, or by family unity, the TV is designed to balance services to refugees. On February 1, I asked the highest. Secretary of the counter, again by permission of the President: To this bill, as it is available, are the rights of individuals to protect in all the rights of individuals who come here under the cry - inspiring system? This question answered the highest. Minister of Ingi In Guðbrandsson, social and employment minister, like this, by permission of presidents: ▪ Yes, it is in line with the rights that are enjoyed on the part of a host and other sources of protection. Okay, this couldn't be much clearer than this, and thank you very much. Minister for responding so firmly. Then the question remains: Why is there an assessment of impact in the report with the bill in no way evaluated for the costs to be removed from the current Regulation, where the right to create housing and to forward, I do not remember whether 14 or 15 days after protection is provided, and to be protected for at least one year? The number of people who will enjoy these rights can be grasped, just as the situation is now. There are large groups that conform to this hat production that turns to the armaholic system. This can be calculated to a point. However, this is not done. It is said that the total cost for the case will be about 40 million annually, and the cost is only three standards for the Times of Civility and the buying of desks and chairs. It's not welcome, and I don't really understand. The CF minister of Bjarni Benediktsson's son, whom I now believe is to be well treated with public money and knows that he wants it, that he did not make comments of himself or his Ministry on this bill because it's a double cost that's passed. It is defined as a cost that is of little importance in the overall picture. The direct effects of these increased rights are completely bypassed. Then, the secondary effects of this bill's approval are totally unmasked. I just find it a little awkward to think about it in view of the fact that the case is being made for the third time, and this criticism has previously been shown that the Ministry of finance is being driven in this way in the context of the cost assessment. I reiterate what I have said before: This is not an acceptable position for us senators to be in. It is no matter which side of the matter stands, both groups, if there are groups, all of them coming to agree, rejection, or rejection of this matter, must make a decision on the right grounds. Here, it seems that the system is working very hard to maintain financial benefits from members of the Parliament and members of the committee and at previous levels in the reviews. I wish to be reassigned, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u100	Madam President. I had started discussing the scope of this subject, and I do so even. followed by a statement by several causes. Senators, especially Pirata, that we can have no restrictions on who is being received here. But for a 350,000 people, a well - off nation in a rich country, we must put things in perspective to figure out what is about to happen, there will be no restrictions here while other northern countries and Western lands are increasing. I had already noted that the number of people leaving developing countries is increasing with increased prosperity in these countries, it is not decreasing, it is increasing. There are a number of reasons, including Better communication and more opportunities to travel. These are very large nations. If we view any who want to improve their terms - and I reiterate a great understanding that poorer people want to consume all opportunities to improve their own interests and interests. In one of these African countries alone, most of the city's trustees have come from Europe in recent years, Nigeria, now living about 200 million. In 2045, and it's shorter, but many may think, time is passing quickly, after 23 years the Nigerians will be 450 million, and they will have become more than Americans. Nigeria will be more populous than the United States, this one African country. In Uganda, and in fact, in many other African countries, more than half of the population are now under 15 years of age, 40 million are now but more than 100 million by 30 years. By the end of this century, 14 of the 25 largest cities in the world of Africa will be present. No European city will be listed as 25 of the largest cities in the world. Then I had come on a short time, just like this, with all of it, the Nigerian country of Niger. It is the poorest country in the world, where population growth is the largest. The majority of population growth is in this poorest country of the world, although the inhabitants of this country do not look much to Europe as refugees. Why is that? The main center of international migration is Niger, a city of Agadez. Why, then, do the inhabitants of this Kingdom not go to Europe themselves? This is because they are poor, because the land is the poorest in the world. This harmonizes with what I was referring to earlier; fear of people increases with material prosperity. Although it may sound paradox, it is the fact of the matter. Now we're going to see the increase in economic growth, hopefully, I hope, Mrs. President, in a number of developing countries and Western countries, many of which put high emphasis on building there, especially on resource development, Chinese in particular. So that these two can be expected together, with a growing number of people and growing interest rates, with increasing opportunities to travel and move. How is Europe, prepared to deal with this trend? Not at all well, especially if, like this government, people continue to present cases that are designed to produce dangerous incentives, promoting smuggle activity, while governments for the development of Denmark go a long way in doing what they can to prevent the land from being the destination of such groups. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u101	Madam President. I'd like to recall in this speech the specific rules of society and child care at the time, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, made a statement in the government's confidentiality last spring. Their work ended in September 2021. To frame the obvious understanding of that minister at that time and obviously of what is being done by the seminary today is to expand the number of full - time ministers on the basis of the Panoreticist system, I would like to quote the facts of this synonym that were sent out for review. This interpretation proposal has not been proposed to me to know, I don't think it's anywhere in the government row waiting room but is due at some point. In this passage, see page 5 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? 24th E- team 5.1, under the heading "Service Service to Refugees and those who have been protected internationally, says of these two groups, i.e. Refugees under the hat of the cryonics system and the other groups in parsity. The bill that is now discussed by President's permission: While there have been several differences in service to these two groups, the basic difference is that the state's budget pays the employee expenses of its members because of the services they perform in the first year rather than because of those who come on its own, and communities provide renthouses when it comes to capitalists, while others need to find housing for themselves. They have been working to match the service with all refugees and are now starting a series of experiences to 12 months of the concerted welcome of refugees from interested communities. It's written in the spring of 2021. The agreement for this document ended some time in September 2021. It says that rural society is providing a rented home in the case of a host of vagrants, while others need to find a place for themselves. What a difference it would be if it were the highest. A minister would be here in the hall, and I could even promise that he would not be very careful with answering, and would just explain if there is anything to understand this government plan differently than that there will be a considerable increase in rights in the groups that will be killed under the armiculator system. This is a reference to how Regulation No. 540/2017, a foreign policy, lists this, as the situation is now. It states in the 23rd chapter. Under the heading Service to applicants for international protection, with the permission of presidents: the service falls down 14 days from the release of the decision to protect a person. It also states in this context that the highest body of Congress proposals is made. A minister who is expected to be a member of the Ministry now, from this position, that services fall down 14 days from the day of publication of the decision to protect individuals will be expected that all refugees who have been protected will be entitled to a special assistance for a minimum of one year since their arrival in the country. It includes, as I came in here, financial support, social counseling, housing with needed rooms and telephones, especially Icelandic education, mother - school and community education, play-school education, hobbies, health care and dentists, service interpretation, job search help, other needed help. Apart from just the current position, how this would affect the housing market where the situation is very limited, whether or not the possible solutions were considered. But I pray to the highest. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u102	Madam President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Minister of Education and Business for taking this special discussion today and saying I agree with the highest degree. In the morning's morning paper, a minister of culture and commerce says that the responsibility of the bank sale must be politicians who made a decision on the matter. Almost all Icelanders are unhappy with selling government items in Iceland Bank. The report shows that 83% of the country's population claims to be disgruntled by how it worked. The law on selling state property in banks approved in December 2012 was to create a solid arrangement for selling things. The instructions of the law are transparency, objective, equality and practicality. From the collapse of the bank, the prize price was to be drawn. However, the sales in the hands of financial and economic ministers have caused general dissatisfaction and trust to the highest degree. Minister and government have been compromised. The charges of corruption and neglect are loud and disintegrating. The members of the administrative body have agreed with the opposition and have expressed their disappointments with the results. In a speech at the General Assembly, the chairman of the budget said that it was based on the belief that it was a long - term investor, so the result would have been surprising. However, the Bank Board says that each step in the sales process has been closely cooperated with governments, who have been thoroughly informed about all the steps they took, as the law on sale of the state's assets in the banks assumes that this is the case. In the law, the role and responsibility of financial and economic ministers are written in. The law is clear that it is a minister who accepts, accepts, or rejects the proposals. Financial and economic ministers cannot hide behind the bank administration or a slave in a town. The financial and economic secretary is responsible for everything. Madam President. V.E.G. In addition, the minister of culture and trade, the above interview with the Morning newspaper, says that it did not endorse the methodology used for selling a 22.5% share in Iceland Bank on March 22, the past. Therefore, it is important to find answers to whether they are at the highest level. A minister believes that the implementation of the auction was in line with the plans presented in the Minister's Committee for Economic Affairs on the conduct of the invitation and what problems the secretary believes were at the sale. The Management Board's website on the Ministers of Ministers states that the Committee is designed to be the basis for consultation and harmony with the restructuring of the financial system, in line with the importance of the government's Treaty that a wide deal of reconciliation with the restructuring of the financial system in Iceland. So it is vital that we hear from the highest source. Ministers, whether it has been discussed in the Commission to perform minimum requisitions for investors, such as minimal share and reputation to ensure the participation of qualified long-term investors in accordance with the State's policy of healthy financial management over long-term, and how to react to the views of the highest standards. The Minister of Culture and Business on the sale within the Minister's Committee. V.E.G. The prime minister has said that the account of the bank sale has not been sustained, so it needs to change its setting and start putting down the bank office as determined by the government. That's why I'm asking the highest. The minister of culture and trade, whether or not she was included in the decision to put down the bank. I find it obvious that financial and economic ministers have not kept themselves among the districts for the legal sale and that this requires him to shoulder responsibility. Tells you the highest. The Supreme Secretary of Culture and Business. The financial and economic ministers have accepted the political and legal responsibilities of the failure at the bank sale? And if not, what needs to come about? At the end, I draw the same question to the highest level. Minister. Do cultural and business ministers believe that the implementation of the invitation was in line with the plans presented to the minister's Committee on Economic Affairs for the evangelization? What were the ends of the sale? Did the Minister's Committee on Minimum Qualifications for investing have been discussed? What was the reaction to the cultural and commercial views of the Minister of Ministers? Was she included when the decision was made to put down the bank business? And counts at the highest. Ministers that financial and economic ministers have accepted political and legal responsibility for the sale?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u103	First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir It's Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for taking up a special discussion about selling on the part of the state of Iceland. That discussion is important, and I am happy that a government as a government opposition will discuss the matter in a grammatical, critical, and in an up - to - date manner. But a respectable president, why are we discussing these matters? Thus, during the reigns of the Future Party and the Independence Party, the release of capital abjects, the capital apes, which, unfortunately, had to be put behind the financial crash, where the outflow was so much that it had destroyed the currency market. In other words, they had to be placed as a capitalist. Clearly, then, the government saw the need to open up free capital transport to the outside world. The government had some problems because the so-called ISK property, i.e. The domestic crowning of the foreign demands was very large, the vastness that no capital master could be released unless it provided all of its property to the Icelandic government. One of those crowns was Iceland's bank, which was in the hands of the rabid pastel of Glitnis. A total of some 650 billion mines were mined. and was then assessed by Iceland Bank at 185 billion. However, for this exercise to be done, it was designed by the government of the government that set out a neutral payment on the payment of the native population. Instead, they held foreign property and could put them in stocks to the detriment of the capital. The international lawyer Buchheit Busty mentioned this agreement of the century. Why, most respected president, am I reviewing this story? We wouldn't be discussing the U.S. Bankers if the D.A. Government and the Independence Party hadn't attacked this project that was quite possible. Certain political groups at the National Assembly of Iceland wanted to go all the other way, go to the European Bank of creditors, and owe a trust fund even more than amend property for the state funds and the people of the country. A respectable president. In many ways, carrying out the commission was in line with what was presented, and some of the goals were achieved. First, the purpose of the distribution of property was set. We did it. Second, it was noted that it was important that the bank be registered in Copenhagen, and it was successful. Third, we got a good price and we did it. When Iceland Bank falls into the shot of Iceland's State Fund, it was measured at 185 billion, as I mentioned earlier. Today, respect for stability has reached 203 billion, and if we add to the 72 billion income, the property has become 275 billion. To put this into context with the state's budget, it's like three times the nation's education spending, i.e. Three years of education in the nation. That's a lot of money. A respectable president. The points on the sale in my opinion are that there was a lack of information available to the public and that the translucency was not acceptable. To me, this methodology is not to be used. It has become less stable in society, and it is better to use a public route. For extraction, i.e. whether investors should be required to ensure a healthy possession, these factors were discussed, but we ministers were assured by the Bank Office that this procedure was fully in accordance with international standards, for example. They used it in Holland, and it would've gone well. A respectable president. This has been very effective in dealing with my views. It is part of politics to deal with different policies and currents and methodologies. A critical discussion was indeed done within the Ministry Committee. As for the decision to put the bank business down, I was fully informed about that decision. I believe, however, that it is very important that we see what a Kingdom Accounting says and what the United States Council says about the whole matter. With regard to responsibility, the Secretary of Economics and Economics has said himself that he is political responsible for the case. [[The president calls.]] And finally, a respectable president, I want to say that I am very pleased with the deep, critical and enlightened discussion that both governments and government opposition have had on it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u104	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir It's Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for this discussion and Minister for the answers. The minister earlier said that the sale of the bank paid a good price, but it can also be concluded that it also made a tremendous discount for those who bought and absurdly paid for the sale. The fact is: The bank has already received 108 billion, 35 billion has been given a discount, and 2.1 billion have been costed. This means that if we take this 22% that was being sold right now, and if the cost goes to the highest level at this time, then there are 700 million that makes 3.3 million per sale, this just over 200 sales. Let us consider this in the context of what older citizens and disability were receiving for the past year. I ask: Is there enough money for the rich? After we've made 108 billion, 80 billion dollars of money, and $35 billion for sale, is it not time to say, "It's enough for the rich? ' Let's go do something for the pensioners who are running around in the middle of obscenities, 7.2% of inflation, and they've got nothing. The elderly citizens have not been given a cent in all of Covid, have had to squeeze the jammers, and have had to be done as well. Okailega, treat food prices. It seems that this government is busy with just making them richer than forget the poor. [[The president calls.]] They're just supposed to tighten the belt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u105	Madam President. I appreciate this discussion. Sales of the government in Iceland Bank is a very important operation. Apart from a profit for the state's funds, it's a competitive business in which the State is not supposed to be in. Banking is also risky, and I don't talk about the future where no one can say for sure how things will develop. The day out, like the highest. The minister of Lilja Alfreðsdóttir arrived, successed in the main objective. Of course, the most important, but not everything, has been identified as the success of the invitation in terms of the prices. But there's more to it than that. V.E.G. A minister made here the subject of trust. I'd like to take my heart to that word, Minister. Since the collapse of the bank, trust in the banking system has been low, and that is not good. Of course, these discussions here and the past few days remind us that this kind of operation, and then I don't talk about when selling state property, must be overcrowded, so that state of that important trust. Thus, research on this operation together is both good and necessary, both by State Review and by the Federal Commission of the Federal Bank. Speaking of their trust, it has been so difficult to hear many representatives of the government opposition suggest that a government decision cannot be trusted to face this investigation with its independence guided by the nature of the request for study. While the sound and picture do not match when some representatives claim to trust in the State Accounting, they do not rely on the trust if there is a specific request. It is our duty that in this important matter, we learn how to achieve it as objectively as possible. I take my heart to the highest word. Ministers on the importance of waiting for the results of these tests before making judgments, especially in order to look out for the importance of trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u106	President. Earlier today, a businessman informed him that she was not alone in expressing her concerns and doubts about the arrangements of the bank sale. It must be surprising that all three ministers serving on the Ministry Committee of Economic Affairs expressed concern about the way out that was chosen without even considering putting their concerns together for the council and for the nation. Not only did they decide to do so but they decided to go exactly the way that caused them, according to a business minister, any anxiety without doing anything to overcome their anxiety. If the ministers were so worried about the process, why didn't they take action or simply choose another way? The project was only thrown into the Bank Office, which was embezzled with red wine, chocolates and fireworks, and financial ministers, they're only going to sign off on the job so as to say no criticism and no thought. Even a financial minister did not cut through the list to see if his father was possible on him or any of his close friends who could cause a conflict of interest, which could make a minister of finance unfit. What kind of recklessness is this? As a result, the secretary of finance orders a study from a government accountant in a conflict with the council's will at the time. But, President, a minister who truly wants responsibility must leave the council, who is in charge of the Commission, to determine who is best qualified to investigate his office. Now the secretary of the business has said that with the request of the secretary of finance to initiate an investigation by a government accountant, the secretary of finance began to accept responsibility. That was the answers I received in unprepared queries this morning at the highest level. Secretary of the business. Why not arrange for a secretary of business to encourage a secretary of finance to complete his responsibility by at least ordering a research committee and informing the matter fully and by fulfilling the will of those who have the responsibility to supervise the office of finance ministers? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u107	A respectable president. Thank you. The manager and minister for the answers presented here. It is important, as we have been discussing over the past few days, that we be clear when talking about such big matters as what we are discussing here, and it is also important that we speak with responsibilities and reason. I think I have at least a few minutes. Try to keep it in place since this case enters our table here at the council and into the table of the Gaming Committee. It is clear that all of this has led to disappointment, massive disappointment, regardless of the outcome we face. All of this was to be based on the ability to sell with a transparent mind, that we might experience that it was solid. But that is not the result. That's why I've said I think it's the only one, that's at least... My opinion is that in this methodology, we won't go back immediately and if we decide to sell the rest of Iceland's bank. There are some questions that stand out after last night's meeting with the Bank Office. Much was explained, but much remains, including some. whether we need to strengthen the legislation, whether it's about the server, that it's not selected, as I thought the explanation was presented yesterday. Besides, I don't think it's all clear about this selection that's in those 700 million, I don't think it's clear what's behind it, etc.. So I think there are many things we're going to see, and, as I've said before, when it's time, a respectable president, that a decision is made by a state accountant, and I believe that a financial committee will take it back and discuss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u108	A respectable president. The sales of 50 billion of the people in Iceland are becoming increasingly strange. It has now been shown, with a statement made by a local minister of business earlier today, that the leader of the government and the Minister of Ministers is probably the most amazing puzzle in the odd image of drawing up. Prior to Easter, a minister of business spoke a word, allowing the president to say: I did not approve of the methodology that came from the sale of letters in Iceland Bank. I made these views very clear in the leadings of the campaign. [...] However, there was another route, and unfortunately, little is surprising in this matter and the outcome. Another route was requested by the secretary of business, warned, and provided the result of a catastrophe that in one night lost confidence. It was good for the minister to warn, but certainly it would have been more effective to do so clearly before the hall became a reality. The prime minister responded by sowing doubts about the case of a secretary of business, pointing out that nothing had been reported about the doubts and anxieties. However, both prime minister and financial minister were completely caught up in the clouds with the invitation in the first few days after it was completed, after which the list appeared and collapsed. At the council today, the secretary of business reveals that other ministers were both concerned and skeptical about the way they went. In effect, the secretary of business was revealing that both the minister of finance and the prime minister had doubts and concerns about the way they chose but did so anyway. How can anyone living question the responsibilities of the Ministers thereafter? How can it be said that there is no need to investigate the responsibility of the three ministerial ministers, who all were concerned about the way, which everyone had doubts about the method but still decided, anxious and skeptical, to sell the bank in this way? It's not a decision to investigate this dealership of the sale, it's not the F.O.B., either. The Generalist Commission has to go to the stitches of why the three Ministers chose to sell 50 billion public property by means of which they themselves had doubts and concerns, a route that ended in a ditch. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u109	Madam President. I want to thank you at the beginning of my speech. The minister of culture and trade for the review of the takeover at Iceland Bank. Listening to it here at the council Hall today that this happened in the government of Independence and the High Priests, in this order, is rather unbelievable, since of course, this happened in the government of the individual. paritaprevir The victories of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, then prime minister of the Faulty Party and the highest. One of the officers there was a minister. It has now been found that the stocks of Iceland's Bank were not even sold to the selected group of investors, as was introduced at a meeting for the Ministry of Economic Affairs on February 4, and others were able to get to the table - although all but two of whom were not allowed by foreign advisors. So on March 22, did the hall go on in line with what was presented? I ask again. This has been said by the bank itself; the implementation of the tenderongers has been carried out as it has been described by the Agency from the beginning to the end. Yet, all the Ministers of the Committee were concerned about this, as noted. paritaprevir Sigmar Guðmundsson this morning. By no means do I bring it together, or as the fool said, "Here comes a corner like a piece of money to our hands." Is it a wonder that there were no manuals or detailed descriptions in the process, or was the perspective of a narrow financial advantage the only thing that mattered? Did it all work out that the stock market might boast of all the billion that they got for the sale and shot up a few Hallmakers at the Links afterwards? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The fireworks are not what we need here. We're gonna need the General's NTSB investigation committee. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u110	Madam President. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister was concerned about the way that had gone in the second phase of the sale in Iceland Bank. This confirmed the Supreme Court. The minister of culture and commerce here this morning. We at the government stand raised concerns and doubts about the sale. They are well recorded in the headlines we returned before the sale began. The minister of finance who was responsible for the sale kept the anxiety and doubts to himself. And in spite of their concerns and anxieties, they are at the height of their misgivings. According to the minister of culture and trade, he arranged for the Bank Office to be given a very broad and open commission to implement the sale according to the formula that is now claimed to be that all three Ministers of the Ministry on Economic Affairs had had doubts and then signed on to the sale, according to the report, without having the information about proposals and proposals. They say Arms length. Arm length. This is now a matter of an armwork policy and the government's holding on finance. It's about politics not interfering with the management and daily management of state companies. However, there is no Arm length rule written into the law on selling property of the State in financial companies. The law specifically assumes that the minister is in charge of the whole process, that the minister should provide the basis for the sales and goals of the sale and informing the General of these factors, that the secretary will decide whether or not treatment should be initiated and that the secretary should decide whether or not to make a final decision on whether or not the proposals have taken over the bank assessment of the proposals. This legal role cannot be performed by a minister according to the documented and unregistered principles he is bound by unless he and his Ministry have more extensive information and evaluate it. It is obvious to all who have some minimal understanding of government rights. After an open meeting yesterday, we know that it is not only in the law that was not an arms rule but also in the implementation, because, as clearly indicated in the Bankisar's memoir and yesterday's meeting, representatives of the finance minister attended meetings of the Bankis administration on the day of the tender day of the sale and their other meetings until graduation was completed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And further was close communication there that night that smelled with the minister's decision, the concerned minister, who had his eye tied. [[The president calls.]] I want to thank you very much. The minister of culture and trade for helping to shed light on the absurdity of this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u111	The President reminds me of why. The members of the council are to respect the speech class here.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u112	A respectable president. I'll try to stay within the hour, within the speech lesson. I have to start by thanking you. Odin Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for taking the talk at the highest. The Minister of Culture and Business, and I'd like to thank her for her clear answers here. Trust and transparency are the most important factors that I have left behind after going through this to a financial committee, for this government sale, and for the discussion and work that took place after the sales. I'm sure there's a lot of offense there, and I'm sure I'm quite aware that one of the biggest elements we have ever had on a budget is that we - yes, we have received specific information about the process to take place. But sometimes it seems that some people are not quite in the palm of the song, although they are really smart at what they are doing, presenting messages to those who are discussing the matter in a clear way and so they understand. That's one of the biggest elements in this case that I feel is completely lacking. But Iceland's Government Accounting and the Federal Bank are covering the case, and we'll ask if it's over at the end of that test.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u113	A respectable president. Iceland Bank is a valuable bank. Why, though, is it so valuable? Do we know why all of them are wealthy, and why everyone wants to buy this bank? What was inside that bank? Yes, it was inserted after the collapse of the bank. It was entrusted with property. How many possessions were there that were taken by people? Has it been renovated? Has it been studied? No. That's why we're going to need the General Intelligence Committee. We need to finish the bank collapse. It's never been finished. That is why a group of people opposed that sale. We weren't ready. This proved true, black and white, on what has been done here in the last few days. This sale is a mismanagement from A to A. What may be the most important thing is that of this committee, the Ministry on Economic Affairs, there are three Ministers, and they all had doubts about it. No book, but they had doubts. Still, that was true. Then I ask why. Since there is no confidence in these committee meetings, wouldn't it have been great to have this committee meeting open and if there was a future meeting to have it open? Then everything would be on the table. But the fact is, there is a screwup from A to Z, and the Bank Office shows amazing lack of judgment. It's a dinner party, it's a dinner party, it's wine and chocolate. What's next? Gold to dinner? Gold at lunch at the dinner party, gold the second part at the dinner party?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u114	A respectable president. This week, there has been a fine opportunity for us to have a conversation with our minister, who is gathered on the Committee on Economic Affairs. Monday was the highest. Secretary of the budget for answers, on Tuesday, it was the highest. The prime minister, and today it is the highest. Secretary of the business. I'm glad this conversation has taken place. There has not been any advisers coming here to have a conversation with the council. Today, the talk has been very much discussed with the highest speakers. A businessman she dropped a while ago. We talked at the highest. The prime minister of the previous day said that at a meeting of the Minister of Ministers on the Ministerial Committee, he addressed the bank's methodology, but nothing had been transferred to a book and is not unusual, since the minister of the business is bombed and slided with experience in financial market matters. It is good, and it is necessary to work in such a way that people can handle the discussion, freely throw it between themselves, and reach a conclusion. That is exactly what is done in the cooperation of these three categories, which form a government. As shown in my case last day here in the General's symposium, when you see the big picture, you have achieved the goals that were set up. They were able to sell 22.5% in Iceland Bank, they were able to obtain acceptable prices for that object, they managed to get a wide variety of investors into the bank's owners group, and they were able to break that huge government possession in the financial system here that I don't think would be desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u115	President. In an explanation when the government's holdings on financial assets were taken care of, the former senator and the present state's highest authority said. The secretary of finance that the state was selling parts in the banks and, by permission of the president, all authority is given to the minister. These are his words, and other members of the Independence Party agreeed there. But the way that power is handled really matters. You can use the power to worry about the other things and to do nothing about them. Especially when it is built into the law that the Minister accepts a reasoned opinion from the Bank Office and should evaluate how to manage the conditions established by the councilmen themselves. No, the minister did not. Secretary of finance is concerned. Here we have to witness that it is once again being sold into government property, where the only thing that seems to matter is the ultimate price. However, it seems necessary for friends and family members to have a loaf of bread to atone for someone here and there in the community. It's just what happens all the time, over and over. Here we go. paritaprevir Hildur Sverrisdóttir, who says that once again the government's opposition is indicating that a state repercussion cannot be trusted. Really? The councilroom's been chewed out that's not the point. The point is that the Secretary of finance came and said to the State Reconnaissance: Here, I want you to monitor the implementation of contracts. Not with a minister's decision or anything like that, but with a contract being made. It would be a matter of initiative for a State Accounting to look into the matter in a larger context, taking the initiative. [[The president calls.]] I trust a Government Accounting to do that. I just say it very clearly and clearly that Government Accounting, and we have the previous sources of it, don't cover all this area, this whole case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I have complete confidence that their government reexamination part of the very well. [[The president calls.]] I'm not worried about that. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u116	The president asks members of the Parliament to give respect to a talk period and end their speech when they get out of the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u117	Madam President. That is out of the question, except for a precise review of how the sale was done in Iceland Bank. I'd like to say that because of a word. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví Gunnarsson's son that members of the council have not completely expressed their confidence in State Accounting or in other sources of observation. That's right. Hv. paritaprevir Björn Leví has been clearly involved. There's been a bit of a discussion, and it may not be surprising, since there are many of us, and we stand for many groups. I believe that there are many factors that must be considered, especially factors such as participation in the process of sales advisers and whether the participation of candidates who may not have been eligible was there. It's already been made up of the FDA, and that's what I think it's important. It has only been during the discussion that there is some kind of ordered discussion that has been asked for by the Government Accounting. I just want to quote, because a letter is the highest. The secretary of finance is official and is online, which says, by permission of the president: This calls for a review of the National Reexamination that it examines and evaluates whether the above sales are in accordance with laws and good government. That's the way it is. I believe The State Accounting is exactly the first point to go to this investigation. Like many others, I have every confidence in the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. If necessary, we will continue the investigation. [[The president calls.]] I agree that trust in our financial system has to be maintained, and we have to have confidence that we're going to do some good work here at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[President (Jsukun): The President continues to remind us of a limited talk period.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u118	Madam President. V.E.G. A government minister reported in the media before Easter that it made it clear within the government that she was opposed to selling letters in Iceland banks to an elected group of investors. She would not be surprised at the outcome. And she's improved. She said that she would find out more about this in the days ahead, yet she did not want to say what it was, since she was on her way to Easter break. Neither prime minister nor secretary of finance have been able to deny the words of the minister of business but to cling to the lack of accounting, the supposed confidence in the minister's official comment. They cannot, according to this, express themselves on issues that are under official publicity in the media. This morning, the Supreme Confirm confirmed. A local minister, standing in the hall, said that the head of the advance party had not listened to her warnings and said that not all agree. The question remains: Has the secretary of the business also been isolated of this position within his own ranks? No member of the party has stood with her, asked about her stand. Then the Minister will try to pull ashore. She says that all the Ministers' Committee on Economics had concerns and doubts. Nevertheless, they all drove as one person on this wall and made a sale that is characterized by conflict of interests and 83% of the nation's population, even the Bank Office says that the main fault of this sale is the conflict of interest. It can be, at the highest. Business minister, that the Ministers were more important than the nation's interests? Was it more important to defend the cooperation of the government than the trust of the people they speak of? She did not answer my biggest question this morning, and I demand to know what was at the top. A secretary of business when she said that more would be seen in this case in the following days? Madam President. So I'll direct you to the secretary of business should be here when we have a word with her. [[I'm here, aren't I?]] You were out in the hall, chief. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u119	A respectable president. At the beginning of my speech, I want to say thank you to the Minister for being here in this discussion, so to speak. This sale in Iceland Bank has repeatedly been claimed to have models in the European privateisation strategy. Yet, the president of the Bank Office, at an open meeting of the budget board yesterday, confirmed that there are no cases of selling a similar systematic significant bank that has been restored to the public by the methods being so well considered earlier. What, then, is being compared? Can this generally be compared to anything similar? It has also been said that it could never have happened in a similar assignment abroad that sales workers had been allowed to buy stock. But it is not the same law on this activity as in our neighboring countries, where foreign sales advisers e.g. Work? I'm just asking that I don't know. If you want to look for examples in Europe, at least you have to take the whole package, do not rely on the acoustic-pocus method, or state the explanation that humans are so weak in coming away from what they want to say. Is there really some kind of routine when a closed invitation is requested to a bank in a European public store, to be called in a group of investors? I'm just asking. I believe that such an tender invitation in Europe would have been limited to what we call in real business investments, and we all understand that was introduced at the issue of February 4 and even that there were conditions for having the ownership for a certain period of time. I don't know. I don't know. But certainly, I think it would have had to be examined. But all these follow - up explanations, and if that doesn't work, it's just a ram's explanation, that's not the way we want to get information for the public and the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u120	Madam President. I began my discussion by saying that I agree with the highest. The minister of culture and commerce that the responsibility of the bank sale must be politicians who made a decision on the matter. The responsibility is that of the secretary of finance and government cannot hide it behind the Bankandis, behind a server in the city, or by throwing dust into the eyes of people by saying: "Intelligible information might have been better. The big picture is discussed by members of the Governing Body. To me, the big movie is this: warning rate is rising. Food prices are rising. Inflation is increasing and the standard of living is getting worse. Social agreements must be made to balance the game and help those in need make peace in the community to cope with difficult situations. The government's contribution to this essential reconciliation is to give the chosen rich to the public's belongings, including the father of the minister of finance, and to expound sharp memories of the collapse of the bank. I was disappointed with a talk that gave me the highest. At the beginning of this discussion, the minister of culture and trade was missing the sting and detoxification shown during the interview with the Morning newspaper. Has the highest. The minister simply changed his mind, or does he speak against his own convictions in order to keep the government together any longer?
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u121	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this fine discussion here at the council on Bank Sale No. 2, if we put it this way, saying that the first sal went well because it was general, transparent, and all could participate in it. It was then decided to take a new route, the so - called offer route, and one of what the Bank Office says is that we need to turn to professional investors, and it would be possible that we would be a little more involved in holding property. This is so that the bank may not be controlled in the power of minorities, no unusual methodology, if you think it through. Hv. Harðardóttir I've changed my mind. No, I sure haven't changed my mind. I think it's more important that we have confidence in government sales, and despite the fact that the cost would have been greater if we had gone to general exports - it was estimated that this cost would be in the range of 400 to700 million, which is certainly high, but the general offer is nearly 2 billion. I'd rather have paid more, and then we would have assured general access, transparency and continued to support our confidence in what we're doing. So I sure haven't changed my mind. But at the end, I believe that the discussions that take place here at the council and today were very helpful because we have these arguments that are necessary here. They are very important because the next time that we leave, whenever that happens, we need to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u122	A respectable president. Here again, one of the senators rose up in a pita, full of holy zeal for the suggestion that the members of the council here had proposed a change in schedule, which is now only the right of members of the council according to the council. I think that proposal was absolutely right. We see here a program that sheds light on the fact that the government is more important than discussing the loss of the rights of the trustee than, for example, the government considers it more important to discuss the loss of the rights of the trustees. to address very important matters that were promised in the 2019 biographies, e.g. to protect tenants' legal status and to protect the job laws. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This program describes the priorities of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u123	A respectable president. One of my first jobs as Minister of Environment, Energy, and Climate... was to set up work on a report on energy status and challenges... with a special reference to the objectives and emphasis on the government on climate issues, sometimes called a green book. The staff I appointed produced the report in March last year, which is located on the Ministry's Web site. The objective and purpose of this report was to draw up facts based on professional opinions and information on key elements of energy in available forms for government, management and the public. I think it's been a great success, since the comprehensive energy information has been made. The report also deals with the main projects and challenges we face with a specific reference to climate. The report was carried out in broad consultations, as much as a limited amount of time would allow. It is not a policy guide but a collection of information that we can use to make better informed decisions. May the report's position is that through Iceland's climate targets, energy production and transport have to be further shaped, as is the basis for the contribution of energy exchange in the community. In energy exchange, there is also a need for energy for further work growth. Improved energy security requires increased electricity production and a powerful transport and distribution system, which again requires the global energy system and integrating processes. Six scenarios are set out in the report, reflecting different emphasis on the future development of society and employment. They range from little to no addition to Iceland's electricity production to more than doubled it, or 124% increase until the year 2040. The question remains to be answered, Will there be a wide range of plans for the construction of a new export operation that would significantly increase the demand for electricity? In addition, major plans for electricity generation have been made for hydrogen and electricity production. Iceland has many special facilities for energy efficiency and energy exchange. As an island far from the continent of Europe and North America, Iceland has an isolated electrical system. The land has powerful energy resources in its variety and in its many unique nature with rich protection values. Iceland also has a unique position among nations that almost no fossil fuels are used in electricity production and house - to - house heating. This means that the contraction must take place on road routes, fishing roads, and air transports. Thus, the number of energy exchanges in the country is fewer and more narrower than other countries, and energy exchanges in road transport need to be rapid. Energy exchanges based on domestic energy sources are accompanied by increased energy security, lower currency emissions and reduced health pollution. The government has supported energy infrastructure for electrical vehicles and for the ports of the country. To further support energy exchanges, including in heavy transport, industry and electricity production. Electric fuels and hydrogen, whether in heavy transport or in flights and ships, are still limited or in the developing stages. For one thing, it is important to promote energy resources, expand research on national energy instruments, and look for extensive cooperation with foreign institutions and companies to develop and implement technical solutions. Energy needs for sustainable energy exchanges will also be met with improved energy efficiency and energy saving, including with technological development and agglomeration of the current inducers. The increased energy efficiency in electricity production and energy consumption and the increased saving of electricity in households as well as in commercial life are relevant to the future energy demand and contributes to energy exchange. Clearly, the continuing demand for electricity from major users is growing, and energy generation is becoming more diverse to the future. A number of tasks have been rejected because of energy and the lack of electricity and the inhibition of the transport and distribution systems of electricity. Many people today are concerned with growing investments and plannings, including those in the United States. in aluminium, data organisms, and biomechanical industry. Similar consumers of energy in this country compared with recent developments and futures have a wide variety of industry, including metal plants, data studios, biofuels, food producers, fish farms, and the productions of electricity fuels. There are indications of lost employment opportunities in several parts of the country due to the position of energy supply or transport. Bad water years 2021, along with the extra demand for electricity, have resulted in a new source of action to reduce electricity supply to those people who have produced less efficient electricity. There are fishery factories, big users, and telecommunications plants. A respectable president. Energy consumption is an important part of the use of the natural resources of the country, which has a wide range of energy resources in large territories. At the same time, Iceland is characterized by a unique nature and landscape with high protection values. Thus, the efficiency of regional energy resources is greatly affected by the important policy of searching for equilibrium between innovation and natural protection. Long-term energy policy for Iceland was introduced about a year ago. The energy policy was worked in a crosspolitan partnership and in collaboration with stakeholders. All council members, plus four council members, were assigned to the task force that won the policy. Singleness was the result. Granted, the course does not solve all differences, but it helps us to see how we can agree when we have a sincere desire to agree on basic goals. It is not only a vital guide but an essential guide to the future. The legislation on the national protection and energy efficiency programmes or framework programmes aims to ensure that the implementation of land areas for which activation can be found is based on long-term conditions and a pan-authorities of interest. It will take into account the protection of nature and cultural memory, the practicality and usefulness of different national and national resources as well as the interests of those who use these same benefits with sustainable development guided by it. The Council has not supplied a budget for 2015. It is necessary to cut any lumps that have been in the treatment of a frame of life or to find an alternative setting that will provide improved energy management. Energy issues have been clarified by the status report and policy. We have a global standard that makes the vision of the future easier. Our policy will lead us into a new era with sustainable development guided by the balance between economic, social, and environmental factors. We are commissioned to be careful about the delicate balance between nature's protection and its uses. Only by doing so will we reap a measure of reconciliation with the future energy issues. In this way, we fill the aim of sustainable development, which is to meet today's needs without hindering future generations from meeting their needs. An updated energy exchange program announced in the Government Treaty will affect the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u124	Madam President. I want to thank you for the opportunity given here to discuss climate issues, Iceland's recession objectives and the energy issues in this large context. At the beginning of my speech, however, I'm going to admit here that I had and had hoped to be the highest. The Environment, Energy, and Climate Minister might bring more information to us than telling us about the status report that was published in the previous month. I hope all interested senators have studied its contents. She's, like, the highest. A minister made clear, a status document rather than a policy document, and now the dog is probably buried in the case presented here, one of the most important issues of government worldwide, and the public. The disaster that has begun, which is no longer ahead, is no longer possible, it is begun, and we are in a bad place about it, on earth. I'd also like to say that I think it would have been more beneficial for the development of the discussion to write a report using the Green Book methodology to provide a better basis for policy development because if I know that process correctly, you start with covering the project with a green book, picking up all the points to be considered, and then you use it to shape a policy. But that is not to say that there is no policy. There have, of course, been a series of policies on energy, climate, and the big environmental issues of this country. Energy policy to 2050 was most likely introduced in meeting late, and there is one of the main objectives that Community energy needs are always met. It is very important what we define as the energy demand for society, for it can never be that it is the official objective of the government to meet any energy demand. The energy demand for society must be about the public's energy needs on the other hand and beyond those limits, energy needs are important. This is a very important opening point in this discussion because if we do not agree on this, it is very difficult to set goals and to make peace with one another. V.E.G. A minister mentioned a framework of natural energy efficiency, and it should have remained trapped for seven years. I know it no different than that she was stuck in the General Assembly at the order of the currently in charge groups, i.e. The forward party and the Independence Party and possibly the V. The middle party, too. It has been suggested that if this is not working now, the tool is ruined. I don't give much for that. The tool is good. It needs to be followed. Of course, correction and review are needed and always take place in relation to the best available knowledge and latest information. But there is a hole in the mind of throwing out a tool that we have really only used in one traffic. I can hear behind the language of the country's energy companies, the industry's Association, the Union, and others who have contributed to a public discussion in an effort to undermine the methodology of a structure. I'm warning you, Madam President, that it is being done here in this room. We're all supposed to know much better. Of course, the energy exchange is ahead, and, of course, they have long since begun in Iceland, as many have noted. We were blessed to bring warm water to our homes and warm our houses up with earth's heat, and we have used the electricity most effectively in our country. The big issue here is to map out the decisions and projects and the goals we will achieve over the next 10, 20, 30 years. All government decisions, public investments, transport, agriculture, and so forth, must be aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That must be the common objective of all of us. This needs a map. We know that energy exchange is the closest thing to starting or that it is the closest thing to transport. We are told it will take about 5% of the energy efficiency currently available in the country. It's quite a thing, but it may not be that much when we compare it to the transport stations that will be in the transport system. They're telling me that I understand 4.5% of the production process so if we were to prevent the loss of transport, we'd be in a position to have enough energy for transport. It is far - off to combat energy exchanges in marine transport. But there's a lot closer than flying. But these are the long - term goals that we must, of course, set. I would like to use this opportunity to point out that electricity laws, as they are today, do not allow governments to prioritize for energy exchange. It's very pathetic. There is nothing in the legislation that allows governments to channel that power to power, toward energy exchange. That's even. because, as it is called, the public service has not been defined adequately in the electronic law. We have to do so according to the third energy package registered in 2019 and we haven't finished its induction yet. This is a priority mission for the government. The role of all parties in the electrical market must also be defined in securing electrical security. It must ensure that electrical energy security for commercial buyers and define their priority in the event of an unfortunate occurrence of dosing, as is done regularly in closed electricity systems such as ours, and it must be given the Power Institute legal authority to intervene in energy markets to ensure the overall safety of electronic energy. If this is done by necessary law-changes in electronic law and if we control this project and ensure the real electrical security of the public and the company across the country, we are very far along in promoting the reasonable and reasonable energy exchanges and the reasonable use of electricity. Another story is that of big users. They compete in a global market, pay world market prices, or market prices for energy. These are and should be two separate markets, and we must place them this way and to help change electricity laws in this way, and I would like to use this opportunity to draw attention to this important matter and hope to the highest degree. Environment, energy and climate ministers therefore pay attention. We've been talking about the energy issues and climate issues for a long time, so we don't have much time. Unfortunately, Madam President, time has passed. Everything we do now is, in effect, a decomposition, an attempt to prevent the tragic consequences of disaster, both in our country and around the world. We all have to stand together to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gas in this country, ensure power security, make good use of renewable energy, and make sure that resourceentan, in the case of private resources, runs into state funds. I wanted this to be done on this report and to thank you very much. Minister for doing business with her.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u125	A respectable president. We're here to talk about energy and energy policy. In the U.S. Marshal's report. Minister of Energy says: There is a need for increased energy to improve energy exchange in the coming decades if domestic energy becomes new, sr. Power policy. Electric fuels can be produced within the country or brought in. Energy exchange is believed to have a range of 4-24 TWS depending on the amount of endogenous electricity produced. The highest energy count is estimated to be a full energy exchange. We need energy exchange in the next few years. The report shows black in white that for this exchange, electricity transport systems must be activated more and more. In the last few years, water concentrations in the apheresis pool have been bad. At the same time, transport systems cannot respond when the water level is low in some areas but in other places. We have to start taking into account that we have a problem with energy transport. Of course, it's just as the past showed, I keep my names, relating to line tunes and transporting the energy, sometimes wasting tremendous amounts of energy simply because it couldn't be moved. What does that tell us? How can we allow ourselves to produce this eco-friendly energy and not see to it that it is simply possible to move to places where it is needed? We know of our own problems that have been in the South as transport has somehow been stopped, cannot be built new lines, and cannot be found the appropriate solution to the rural society that has stopped that possibility. We are also witnessing the fact that new lines are being set north, and there are doing things in opposition to farmers. That's not acceptable. You can understand it when you're putting electricity through the farm of that farmer and even be cutting land with the line, that's not acceptable. We're supposed to find solutions. It's funny that we're in a situation where this is actually reducing our chances of using all the energy we're producing. It is unfortunate how long needs have been delayed at the organizational level, e.g. Southside line 2, as I was saying, and Whaleting and other needs. Granted, it is not just in electronics where projects are delayed at the organizational level, e.g. has been lost too long. We also need to ensure the highest level of economic power security. We need to make sure that electrical prices to homes do not increase. When it comes to changing energy, penalties should not be used to alter people's behavior, such as raising fuel costs or placing carbon taxes in the home. We should further contribute to making poor people choose between fossil fuel cars and electric cars. We know this, and the fact is that older people are in older cars and are driving cars that usually spend and pollute more, and it's simply because they simply can't afford it. It has been tried to put in such a way that most people should be able to use public transportation, but we know that for people who have children in schools and schools and sports, and this is all in either direction, it can be very difficult to use public transportation to fill their needs. There are other solutions in sight. The report points out that the production capacity of methadone is about four times higher than that of its metropolitan vehicles. There's a chance. The public must step in and find ways to enhance the use of personal values that others need to burn. The evaluation is an extra product for the village, so we cannot shut down the production process. So let's take advantage of this opportunity, and use a record like that. ... inthecarsofthe public staff. That's one of the things that's been incredibly ugly to see, for a very long time, appreciated was just burned, for no one's benefit. It's a waste of thought, of course. There's something else that's been observed, both since there's no energy and it's also because it's not possible to transport the energy, that we're burning oil because of lack of energy. Of course, it is totally unacceptable in our energy - rich country that we should allow it to continue. And one of the worst things we've done is, of course, to sell energy commodities abroad and make it pass that we're writing in Iceland that we're using nuclear energy, coal combustion, oil combustion. Of course, this is not acceptable. True, we are burning oil in emergencies, but we are not using nuclear energy, we are not burning coal in general. But what a surprise it is that some pollutants can be sold! The purpose of buying pollutants must be to continue pollution, and we should not help anyone or anyone to do so. Then there's what I've already pointed out, which, of course, is a very strange phenomenon, but it's all the middle of the power business. On whom? Yes, consumers are affected, and it is hard to believe that if the consumer doesn't know when he is moving, and a new consumer comes in and buys an apartment house or something, he needs to pick out a power dealer. If he doesn't choose an energy dealer, he's only transferred to the most expensive power dealer who sells at the highest price, and the person may have no idea that he can choose the person he wants to buy from him. This may be considerable, perhaps not monthly, but on a yearly basis, large amounts of money are involved. We have demonstrated that we produce quality vegetables in greenhouses, where we have tremendous opportunities and are required to make good use of them. Then there is the price of electrical energy to an aluminium, and the question is: Is equal to the price of energy sold to e.g. aluminium production and vegetable production, and if aluminium production gets less electricity than vegetable production, is that normal? We know that we can produce quality vegetables, and as I have often noted: If the Dutch can in their own land be big instruments for the production of vegetables, we should be able to do the same. As I have previously noted, we have begun a wonderful export of agglomerates and other products, and this shows that we can do this. We just need to create the basis for making such production and making sure that the people who want to produce quality vegetables, whether it is available in the domestic market to become self-sustained or exported, get electricity at an acceptable price. Then, of course, nature. That is where we must be careful to take care of ourselves. We've inherited nature in our time, and I just have to say, just as it is, from the time I was born to today, nature has become a huge change. It's because of us, and unfortunately not all for the good. Our duty is to try to keep nature so that the next generation can enjoy what my generation had with nature. Sadly, though, that is impossible. We're playing with fire. We are in a race for global warming, and most important, we need to be careful not to stay asleep. Just last week, in Norway, there was a plant fire that started, and it sent another chill down my back because I've been in this platform several times, pointing out that there is a need for security measures, e.g. In Iceland's plains and other forests, burning and burning chambers and burning pelvis are ready to prevent major damage to nature and even the loss of human life by natural fires. We're not ready. We're always talking about it, and we feel it's so far away, it can't come from us, but we know it from Moram when the moss started. We know we're not going to escape, we know that there's a drought, and we've already come to worry because there's so little to it. We've seen it in the tendons, and we've only seen it in the Honesty of the time, when it started, how quickly it's happening. We're seeing it everywhere, but somehow we always think it won't happen to us and we won't be hiding it until it's too late. We're supposed to make firehouses and escape routes in these greenhouses, be ready to do whatever equipment is needed if it's on fire to fire the fire. I hope we never have to use it, that would be the best, but if we have to use it, we can take it and we can stop possible early plant fires and thus prevent the damage to both nature and manpower, and especially to prevent people from being exposed to natural fires. We've seen this in Australia, we've seen it in California, we've seen it all over the world, and we're not supposed to put our heads in the sand and say, "No, no, it's just out in the world, it's never coming here. We've said that about a lot of things, but it always ends up coming here. So let us prove ourselves ready and do all we have to do to make sure that we do not start storing the well afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u126	A respectable president. I'm glad the council takes the time to discuss the results of the green book. Here we have been concerned that the Council's appointment might be better spent. I don't agree with that. What matters are more important at the council than the environment and climate? Greenbook results at the highest. Environmental, energy and climate ministers are actually striking. Iceland has set high goals on climate, but energy investments have so far failed to follow them. Setting goals is of no value if we are not going to do them is not worth it. We can aim for any reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, therefore 100%. We could declare the goal of achieving a non-carbon share tomorrow, of Iceland being fossil fuel free the other day. If it's just the words, if it's just numbers on paper, it doesn't really matter. Anyone can write out ambitious goals, anyone can build clouds but to follow the goals to follow, to follow the contractions of greenhouse gas emissions, to perform real energy exchanges, to make Iceland independent fossil fuels first of all countries, require drive and thirst, and to make progress and growth. I have high hopes for the highest. Ministers perform these national goals. A respectable president. The finish line is clear, but so is the list of projects. The transport and distribution systems of the country need to be increased by electricity production. The demand for more energy and energy security comes from all parts of the country. The energy needs to be more efficient, energy saving needs to be improved, it needs to simplify and improve the administration of permit measures, and all of this needs to be done in the greatest terms of harmony with society and nature. Although the task is clear, it does not mean that it is simple. It's clear that the challenges we face for Iceland are for energy, but they also give us tremendous opportunities. Our special status and expertise in environmental and energy matters are very important to Iceland's contribution. V.E.G. Environment, energy, and climate Ministers often say that good reports should not vacuum in drawers and in storages, but should be used for implementation, in order to improve the quality. I challenge the highest. Minister to implement the objective of the European government on climate, to enforce real energy exchange in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u127	Madam President. It is a little long title in this discussion, but it is about putting a vision of the future in connection with the goals and priorities of the government in climate. In that light, it's a little interesting that a minister of climate wasn't doing this. Yes, he was referring to the way the press talked only about the climate to justify the good old energy policy, but it was not stated what the minister's objective in climate matters is and that is something that we have tried to hurt out of it repeatedly in this hall. There is something in a government covenant but always when we ask, "How should it be carried out? " How do you put it in the law? How should this be applied in financial or financial matters? then the minister breaks down with the old question that what he says is not important but what he does and then does nothing. I was reminded of a musician named Prince, who had many fine songs there. Toward the end of the last century, he decided to stop calling himself Prince, and we always talked about the artist who once called himself Prince. It was a little dozen, it wasn't the most comfortable artist's name. But it is the title of the one that was once called a green book on the energy issue that we are discussing here today. In fact, it is a little awkward for a minister to have started this work in his first few weeks of office and not put the job better than what was supposed to be a green book, an excellent idea, to some summary of the energy companies'requests. A green energy book would be a very useful tool to bury up to the discussion of our long - term vision in this category, which would take into account different views and work with experts for a slightly longer period than the four weeks that were taken to run through this report work. And what was done? It was, for example. No independent analysis performed. Many chapters of this report are just taken directly from the stakeholders who are, of course, also those who know the most about the water, and who have experts to figure out the impact, what is expected there, but at times the State does not have to break away from the interests of things and evaluate things independently? Of course, it was noted that the report is prepared by three sources. There were three individuals appointed by editors and two of them from the Business Association, from the direct interest groups in increasing energy efficiency, which, like the Independence Party, were bucketed in recent years that they could take old dreams of Iceland's bottom activation and dress them in a green suit and sell them as a solution to the climate crisis. Now I'm not going to downplay the contribution that renewable energy has made to Icelandic society or the possibility we have in the future, but there's no torture there, there's no finger at the Independence Party, but it's just that it's just to be wearing a new costume of old dreams. If we just look at the simplest point of time over how a water - power activation is organized, built, and put into use, it says to itself that none of these ideas are about to produce something for reduction in emissions within the time frame we were talking about in the climate. That is where we need real success in the year 2030. That's it. Activation, initiated in a organizational phase of 2022, is not about to inject many megawatts into the 2030 system. What struck me, too, when I examined the report at its time, and it doesn't get well, it goes a bit on the fact that the stakeholders had access to it and got their stage photos, got them raised directly into the report while nature's interest groups, the National Protection Association and Landguards, which gave only a worse idea than the people with the experts and engineers in full wages, their idea is straised and almost written as unattracted and somehow half-witty. How would it have been like, for example? If the government had taken any of the 81 million that went on last year to subsidize the employment union through public societies, took some of the money to account for Land Protection and Iceland's Natural Protection Association how their scenarios really looked? This was not done, and instead a somewhat irresponsible presentation was carried out on the roads of those involved in the report, using 100 new megawatts every year for the next 18 years, until 2030, it would have to be applied to the five Káleganians. This is a bit steep in a country where more energy is produced for every population than in any other country, so much higher that in second place on the list, Norway has twice as much power per population, and 80% of this energy is going to be at a very favourable price to make a fortune. What was not taken into account in this report, and there is something that we need to take to heart for further discussion, it is not that the decision not to engage, to decide about nature protection, is not also a climate surgery. Yes, using green energy in green production or something that is less damaging to the environment than something else can have a positive effect on the climate. However, natural protection is a climate operation, whether we talk about protecting nature to bind carbon or to protect nature in order to increase the development of the environment and the community from climate change. Protecting nature is an independent goal when it comes to climate. Let us again name the Merianns, where one of the consequences of this terrible activation is that each year a huge area of earth's flying out of the sea is formed. It's a negative climate impact. Soil destruction is one of Iceland's biggest challenges to climate. But because the heading is to examine the energy issues with reference to climate goals, I may refer to people who look at the report once called a green book, whose authors look forward to Denmark with long - term goals. One of these is that the government's purpose to reduce greenhouse gas emissions has been established because it is not just a written word but rather that governments make it clear, make it clear to all, and also to themselves, whatever is needed. This has failed Iceland's government and has one third less ambitious goals than the Danish government. Then there is the other rule in which we are in a troubled situation, especially as a result of a paradox of present administrations and internal conflicts in the administration team. Let's talk about a frame plan. We've got some government officials talking like if a frame plan doesn't run out at this assembly then we can just start putting it down. The years teach an evil speaker. Have we ever seen a clearer example of this? Just because the Specialist Party and the Independence Party have been in some big showdown for the results of project management, we're going to shut down the system. It's like when the Bank Office was thrown under the bus when an independent man couldn't get a private bank without giving his dad a part of it. As a result of these gaps between the board of directors, we are faced with a framework that is to provide an overall estimate of different interests for all the initiatives in this country, three pieces are being taken. The third phase of a frame plan is once more after the management parties blew it during the last term. Stage 4 did not complete, but there are provisions such that the current project management gave away before completing its office and working on a 5th phase. The overall vision between these three phases must be lost. Because the most excited of activation is so much so that the environmentalists will be responsible for the delays in implementation, let's just say that delays in the framework are not due to environmentalism but to the political parties that want these activations. They just want them so much that they mess up the tools they need to get them on their feet. There's one thing missing in this report that I think it's the government's ideologies in general. It is that this insurmountable view of how society develops into the future has to be turned away. It's, for example. Mistelling the range six that comes from environmental organizations in the report that there is no interest in economic growth when it is rightly spoken for interest but merely for their aims that it will be the same period calculated for each individual population. As a result, Iceland's land production is growing in line with population growth, but we are not constantly using the delusion of an infinite linear economy that doesn't exist on earth with lasting resources. We need to turn our backs on it, just as we need to turn our backs on the big-time policy that the government class has dressed in green aluminum paper and called climate policy. We need a courageous government that speaks not only for technical solutions but also for a change of eating habits in real life, to provide transportation systems, and to adapt society from its roots. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Icelandic governments are not taking advantage of our opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u128	A respectable president. It seems that in recent years, there has been a dread of talking about energy in Iceland that has led to a country's halting. We have lacked the courage to take this discussion seriously, and we face the consequences. Energy situation is serious, as this energy report confirms. Clearly, continuing energy shortages lie ahead and there are national transport limits, and all in the time when green energy has never been more important. There is no salary issue and no one has noticed that in recent years only a demand has been limited. No new activation over 10 MW has been granted activation licenses over the past five years, but activation permits for aggravating measures in hydrodynamic and geological activations as well as for several minor activations have been provided. A respectable president. The scenarios drawn up in the Iceland's increase in energy demand, with reference to climate targets ranging from little or no addition to Iceland's electricity production to more than doubled, or 124% increase until 2040, depending on the intention to improve or increase growth. Protection and innovation may persist as many examples have proved, but it is important that future energy efficiency is found in a organization where its location as well as the environmental impact will be minimal as possible. Iceland's largest contribution to climate is its use in green energy. Today, no other nation in the world is making so much use of green energy as we Icelanders are doing, 85 to 101 percent of the energy used by Icelanders is green energy. We can be proud of it, and we are expected to start exporting the knowledge generated here in the region of energy. At that time, a transnational committee of energy policy returned to 2050 in great agreement, with governments looking at the direction that guides the future. The policy set ambitious goals focusing on Iceland's becoming independent of fossil fuels in 2050. Last December, Prime Minister announced the expansion of Iceland's climate objective at a summit meeting. The target is from 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions up to 2030 to 55% reduction. This extended operation is accompanied by a high level of capital. As we increase our ambitions for climate, we need more green energy and green energy, the key to combat climate problems. It is important that we have a vision of the future that the nation will become self-sustained with fuel and regardless of the purchase of fossil fuels abroad. All of us agree on where we are heading, and all of us want to reach these goals and contribute to the climate. That's the way. The benefits for climate are one thing, but if Iceland becomes sustainable in terms of energy it will also have a positive economic impact. At the same time, many valuable jobs will be created. A respectable president. Iceland has every opportunity to lead in green solutions that will replace fossil fuels. In this context, it is important that the public and the general public support the innovation and sustainability of nations are a desirable goal, whether in fuel or in national food security and the future growth will be based on green energy. The energy policy says that the energy demand for society will be safely met for a longer and shorter time and that national access to competitive prices will always be made with green energy for homes and businesses. These goals are ambitious and good, but the question of how we're going to acquire this green energy remains, even in the open. Now we need to make decisions that may be difficult for some, but they are necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u129	Madam President. We'll discuss the work group assessment of the position and challenges of energy published during the previous month. I thank you for the discussion, both very important and also very positive, to be allowed here to discuss matters that really concern national interest, not the political conferences on the various scandals. The interests of future generations are the means that we can create a sustainable society in agreement with nature and we can use the resources that we feel here for our benefit but that we make it exceptionally through environmental protection, maximum protection, and sustainable guidance. The situation is that electricity is a product that always takes out of demand, especially when it's green and when it's cheap, and that way it will be here, no matter how much is activated. It must therefore be put in place to give the energy that is produced where it is needed, and it also ensures that we prioritize energy efficiency in the interests of homes and profitable management. The energy manager has then pointed out the importance of developing the energy we produce the ratio in a socially important project, that the market will be more defined and we will measure that the rules of the game are so that the priority is clear. We need to look for ways to improve the efficiency of energy. We have access to improved transport systems, energy storage and green steps that the job life can take, and this is discussed in the report, which is well covered. The work is also good in many ways, but I wonder if there's not much room between it and the work that has already been done by this government in the past Minister of Energy and Environment. I'd like to hear the perspective. A minister to whether this assessment actually includes a change in the government's policy of energy or double action in the record he has already made. If not, I have to say, I find it quite remarkable that this work is now done, not four years ago. It is not new, and it is true that this government has used the time badly. But this is just such an important case, and so important that the Minister of Energy, the government's resource minister, is now a new minister, certainly, but this government is now taking over the position four and a half years after cooperation began is quite remarkable. At the same time, there is no disagreement over the fact that we have a short period of time. Madam President. A small number of lawsuits are more urgent than environmental and climate issues, and they should rightly extend to all members of the council and the government. This discussion should only consider the social damage that poor energy efficiency and pollution from production can cause. We have been able to talk about the financial cost of pollution, which, while not done on the market, makes waste of energy, simply exploiting contaminated emissions. All worldly goals, however good, will succumb to that fact if they fail to perform counter measures. That's what I'm talking about here. Those who're contaminated, they're paying. Then the government's income can be given in support of green innovation or a general tax reduction. That's in itself, I don't mean to say anything, but optional in view of the goal. It's the city that's contaminated. This also involves a double incentive to reduce emissions and to help us reach these key climate targets. This is a big issue in the debate on energy exchange, which can be very costly, for both the public and the business of the country, even though it brings considerable social benefits. In other words, we talk that companies and homes that contribute to this gain, this social gain, get to enjoy it in the form of financial support while others working against this common gain are reimbursed, taxed. Thus the government can do what has been neglected, and it is to activate the power of the private enterprise in this struggle with green motive in the interest of the environment. We're not going to win this fight unless the personal effort is on our side. It's important, Madam President, to set energy priorities. This assessment will hopefully lead to the exception of the government, i.e. Lack of priorities, should be finally improved four and a half years after the cooperation between government classes began. It is important that we focus on these projects and measures that are most effective in the shortest time. Energy issues are one of the most important global climate issues. If we're going to be able to overcome the climate, encourage it to cow, it's a priority for the world to stop using fossil fuels and to use renewable energy where possible. We're in a death box, we have a special position to be in charge of energy exchange, but we need to create the knots so that we can use the energy available to modern hydropowers and geothermalists to produce, to create by building and strengthening the transport system across the country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to consider that the emissions factor by all specific means is to place targets on high - temperature sources of energy, to bind carbon in the earth, and to use environmentally friendly production. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I'm clearly past the time that surprises me, but in no way do I want to risk President's anger, so I'm getting out of a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u130	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Environment, energy and climate ministers before history and in the process of discussion. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the efforts of the Minister in view of an increased and heavier debate on energy issues during the recent years. During the past December, it may be said that while more recent news reports reported that the company had compromised, a discussion of the lack of electricity and the supply safety has reached a significant burden. But okay. I'm glad the minister took the initiative in this job and gathering information into this status report as the highest. A minister has repeatedly pointed out that this is not a policy document, now the last of his speech. I think it's a good introduction to a very important discussion. The report presents six scenarios, such as the highest level. A minister came on, the stage photos available for the work group. The following discussion of the report or after the publication shows that not all of us were able to draw a realistic picture of the situation, that there could have been more scenarios that have even been discussed in the past, although they were certainly not in the same format as published in this report. I consider them to be normal and, in fact, prepared. Increasing weight and understanding of climate impacts and the need for rapid action have helped to bring this up, and it is well felt, even though there are conflicting views. It is sound and critical, all of which are wholesome and important. A respectable president. By permission of the president, the Government Convention Pronunciation Class, Independence Party, and Left Forces say: We want to coexist on the use of resources. We stress the struggle with climate change by contraction in emissions, energy exchange, and green investment. At the same time, our task is to create an Icelandic society with increasing technology as well as to ensure the continued life cycle of all generations. The balance of economic, social, and environmental factors will be emphasised. The treaty also says, with the permission of a president: To achieve success in fighting the climate along with strengthening the economic situation of the country and taking the lead in international energy exchange, the European Union is a major component of Iceland's contribution. A recent energy policy with the current interest in future generations will be based and sustainable development will be guided by a balance between economic, social and environmental factors. A respectable president. Here is a theme, and it is not without reason that it is urgent to look to economic, social, and environmental factors. That is the basis of the ideologies of sustainable development that we have undertook to lay the foundation for all decision making. We've done a lot of good, and we've developed the ideologies, but we can do better if it's done. In the historical context, man has taken extreme action on earth's quality, so gravely that in many places, increasing weight is not laid on the important goal of ensuring sustainable development. One aspect of sustainable development, the social one, has many dimensions. I have often felt that many look for economic growth as the only standard for social profits. Social profits, as it were, are also measured in prosperity. The well - being of so many things is that only the crowns can be counted. The Constitution also says, by permission of the president, that I am now continuing to quote in another fine government contract: To build a green, non-carbon society, it has to be established on new fortresses. The important thing is to be cautious about the fragile nature of the country and in the measure of increasing energy use, as well as the production of fossil fuels, to meet population growth and the needs of green sector. Better energy efficiency, reduced energy loss, and improved efficiency of existing efficiency are also needed. And the importance of social reconciliation on the protection and energy use of land and natural resources has been provided with a published report. A sharing together on the use of common goods surely contributes to the prosperity of society, although the reconciliation will not be valued for financial gain. It is a political vision presented in the government covenant. In this context, the importance of social reconciliation, I've said this before in the IIlium symposium, and I am fully aware that it is. Councilmen know the prehistoric nature of the case, that energy recovery projects have broken down entire communities. I want to believe and trust that we as a community, have gained a better understanding and master the ideologies of sustainable development, have advanced in the understanding of the importance of social reconciliation, so that we do not act so strongly and then walk on earth's quality that our communities remain almost as if they are on fire alone. In this discussion, it is often clear that we will never fully agree, but I think we have learned from experience, would like to believe that we have learned from experience, that we have to do our very best to make as much peace as possible if we have to make more energy. However, this is not the only possibility of the situation as it has been established, and the report presents various features. It is certainly possible to reduce waste, improve efficiency, and contribute to the formation of the ideological cycle economy to better use the energy already produced. A respectable president. Another aspect of social reconciliation is a common understanding of energy needs. For it to be achieved, we need to know what the ideas are about the need for energy and to determine after a critical conversation in what energy is involved. In this context, it is also important, such as why. paritaprevir The Þórunn of Sveinbjarnardóttir Beardddotir came into his speech, that we separate between energy needs for the competition that today is taking advantage of the produced energy of our land and the energy we want to provide for the public. It has been deemed in the discussion and here at the Senate Hall, which I'd like to indicate that we are moving toward a better direction, that the program of action should be adjusted to ensure energy delivery security and to ensure that all people who are making energy for public use, because, of course, it is the use of common quality. You have to work for a change of order. I think I understood correctly that this work has begun at the highest level. Minister. I'd appreciate it if at the end of her talk a little bit of work and where it stands, a minister could handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u131	Madam President. I must admit that I was rather relieved to hear at the top. A minister today because I thought the minister was relatively uninterested, in contrast with what was here yesterday and yesterday, during a discussion at the council and in the media, at the highest level. A minister spoke in such a way that not so many years ago, he would likely have been asked to calm down at a meeting of the left movement, not overstepped in declarations. But the highest. The secretary and the majority have all realized that energy exchange is accompanied by the need for increased energy production. In fact, a person would have thought that this was something that should have been placed at the outset when the government produced its climate policy, but it took time to discover it. Of course, this climate policy was put forward primarily in order to be able to decorate with something in some foreign find. But now people wonder: " How do we produce the energy we need to survive the energy exchange? V.E.G. The minister here reflected on how the idea of a frame plan had come about, who would have been the point of it, and then he added, with a little concern, that if it didn't work out, it'd just have to be revised. Actually, I've heard a similar approach from the highest level. Secretary of finance, good and good, I agree. If a person continues to stop a frame plan, he simply needs to reevaluate the whole arrangement. But what has the government done about it? What has this government done during this ideal period and the last time in an effort to add a framework plan? I have at least a few minutes. it was not present. So that the government is here to criticize itself, just as it criticizes itself for having sold Iceland's bank after warning itself before making the decision. Madam President. The climate policy of this government is unrealistic, since we are discussing how to achieve the goals of this policy. It's not even unrealistic because we Icelanders already produce a lot of our energy with renewable environmental energy that it is not possible to achieve the targets except by what you really have to call cheating, to form by taking the balance of the estimated emissions from farms, if you have not taken these alleged emissions into account, and then you plan to make up for this by shoveling in the ditch and imagining that by taking it has reduced emissions. Madam President. This kind of cheating is essential for this government to achieve those goals. But what would be better for the world's climate would be if we were to produce more in Iceland, produce more environmental energy. But there's still no question what the government is going to do about it, as I mentioned, but if we were to do that, we'd be a little more valuable in Iceland, we'd help the world on a global scale, and we'd improve the quality of life here. Nor did the government seem to notice the development of international affairs during the last few weeks of these climate - related issues. President of the United States recently called after Saudi Arabia's production of oil would be increased. People know the troubles of Germans, Poles, Bulgarians and others who have relied on gas production in Russia. In many parts of the world, calling for itself to be sufficient, at least to some extent, the production of this energy, which will inevitably require a predictable future. At the same time, this government suggests that studies of potential oil and gas resources will be forbidden in Icelandic economic history. Then I'll come back to my left motion at a ◯ green supply and how to present the highest. The secretary of the environment and the weather has reached the top of that category, at least Just like he was a few years ago. Do you recall the reaction to the use of oil and gas sources in Icelandic jurisdiction when a local environmental minister, Kolbrún Halldórsdóttir, stated that shortly before election 2009, she had doubts that the Icelanders should use oil and gas sources? VG shot at an emergency meeting and sent out an announcement that night to criticize his minister, saying that VG had no conclusions about opposing oil and gas processing. But we have changed times now, and we have a new climate minister who, as I say, would have been on the edge of the VG just so long ago. What we have to do, Icelanders and the highest. Minister and this government, to respond to the need for environmental reform, is to produce more, create real value in the environmental ways that we can do here in Iceland. Do not engage in virtual operations like shoveling in a ditch.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u132	Madam President. In principle, I disagree with this approach. paritaprevir On the contrary, the victories of King Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, believe that if all nations thought in this way, we would create more present - day conditions in which mankind is becoming more and more like one large family that needs to be thought of as responsible for one another. He also notes that energy exchange is in harmony with the need for increased energy production, and, of course, it is quite right to some extent. Of course, we also need to consider the increase in energy efficiency and priorities, even in this wonderful house warming that we boast of. We build monuments with greener energy, but we weren't thinking that we're decades behind in construction technology and waste energy as if it's an inexhaustible value, which they certainly are not. The future must be green, otherwise there will be no future, and we must only stick to the commitments we have made, including the commitments we have made. with the Paris Treaty, achieving a carbon shareup for 2040 and the aims for fossil fuel free Iceland. We have to speed up energy exchange as much as possible and use every possible mechanism. We need to apply organizational measures, we need to reduce the traffic of the private car, and we need to use the energy options that are self-sustained. Of course, the problem is that we live in an unusually spectacular, unique nature. Of course, most of us agree that nature is to be protected, as far as possible. So we need to find some balance between these innovations, between natural prices, and between energy generation. Of course, we do not want to activate our most beautiful falls and falls into the infinite, but we also have tools to measure these energy options, and that is a general plan. Of course, a Ramma plan is a tool we have and should use. However, we also need to be open to other advantages, wind power, the activation of tides, solar energy, and other things that we do not even see today but that may be less sacrifice for nature. I would like to, in the end, to remind you that, before the council, here is a judicial proposal from which. paritaprevir It's a whole new Oddný Harðardóttir about green turns. How vital it is when we move along in a rapid energy exchange that the cost of the income is not at the expense of those living outside the capital area, and it will not be at the expense of those who lean their feet! But it is not enough for us to think on these terms just to Icelanders. Unlike ideas, we need to be different. paritaprevir Sigmundur's crew, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, are thinking about it globally and thinking things so that it is more likely that by a new technology, with green energy, we can use new opportunities to reduce the world's inexorability, not to increase it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u133	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for taking the initiative to take this important document together because here we are that I think we are talking about one of the biggest things we as a nation and a community have to deal with, that is this resource we have that is energy in our country. There are many sources of energy, and how do we make the best use of them? This plays so much a role here, whether there's a lot of energy security in the world today, and it's also important about food security, and I'm not talking about the welfare of the people. If we are going to maintain the welfare community we have and can strengthen it even more, then all of this is of great importance. And then, when we have such a big and important group of subjects, it is important that we have all the information on the table and that we can discuss this from some facts and reason and have a similar place in our discussion. I think it's done well in this green book and it's very important. I don't think we've made good use of this resources, and we haven't been able to get far enough ahead in making peace over the uses and hence getting into this use for the nation, because of the factors I mentioned earlier. To take further steps in this regard, there is much to it. This green discussion we have here is not just black and white, as people often want to mean and the debate often wants to evolve. If a frame plan is not adopted, nothing will happen in energy, or because nothing has been activated, nothing will happen. But it's often said that it's just enough money to put into innovation and evolution, and we're going to go into energy exchange, which is always missing, where the energy is to come from. This discussion must be taken in a complete way and examined from all sides. As we have seen, it's about the interaction between the two, like in the frame plan, where are we going to make new activations? Where will we increase our power in the activations that are now? Where are we going to reduce energy consumption and save energy? How will we make better use of the energy we have today with a better distribution system? We're talking about system plans, legislation, orderliness, and how to get this up, investments, and new technologies, and each part could be talked about for a long time. Then there is the question about how the public can participate in this, with the turbans on the roof and the solar cells, and so each one could become a little more sustainable with energy, and the more important, it goes into a common system. There are microinstalls and all the innovations ahead of us, e.g. In agriculture, cattle and other wastes are being collected, and thus they catch a record that goes on the tractors - it's all adrift. But this green book shows something that it doesn't always mix sound and image. The government has developed energy policy, it has a wide range of international commitments to reduction emissions, to share in the economy. There's a lot of talk about trying to increase land fish farming, increase gardening, capture carbon. All this needs is electricity. All of this needs some energy, and we must be ready to supply it. There's a lot of talk about the need for energy, and it's like I just quoted, it's not all black and white. It's always sayin', before we pull the energy, let's decide what it's going to go for. But I'm just saying that we can make a lot of energy, but it's not going to stop the demand. It can be divided into a few things. It's this general use that's just the homes and normal companies who are working today. Then come all the commitments I mentioned earlier and the energy exchanges and all that. It takes a lot of energy. But we're always talking about the private car, which is just a fraction of it. What about the planes, the cars? All our professional lives are way ahead of us. The marine road is just waiting for the rules to change and connect in rejections and other things, but we're just not ready for it. Governments are not ready. There are many examples of this. Then we're talking about growth in current employment, it needs energy. And then we can start talking about new opportunities, as I mentioned, in salmon farms, wax crops, data plants, etc. All of this needs energy. Even if we were to create tremendous amounts of energy, we wouldn't have enough of this. And then we're not talking about exporting energy like that. on hydrogen and so on. We need to lift ourselves up a little over this, which this green book helps us do. I welcome this discussion, and we have a great responsibility to lead it to the right place.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u134	A respectable president. When I was preparing a talk for this part of the program, I thought of Europe. There is war in Europe, and it has lasted two months. The gas for Poland and Bulgaria has been shut off from Russia. Russia invaded their neighboring kingdom. Russia has very powerful weapons, tanks, and other weapons needed, but they also have a resource. I began to think about it and how lucky we would be with our problems or, in fact, our work, because it's just a project that needs to be solved. All we have to do is make good use of our energy. That's our job in Iceland's energy policy. A respectable president. We have set high goals in the battle against climate pressure. We're going to get them. The efficiency of electricity in Iceland is a prerequisite for us to take part in climate targets across the country. The bioavailability of cleaner and sustainable energy is the key and we all know it. In the 2017 energy exchange programme, economic motivation for consumers and companies are referred to as the choice of eco-efficiency and energy sources. According to energy policy, there is an important goal in combating climate threats that energy exchange is taking place in the air, in the air, in the air, and in the uterus. The opportunity for energy exchange is there, but for us to be able to make perfect energy exchanges, we need to correct the demands. Electric transport pathways are limited in many areas. This is a major waste of energy escapes from its transport from A to B. The transport routes have to be improved in many parts of the country. I would especially like to refer to the West and the northeast corner of the country. The Landsnet System plan to strengthen the main transport systems in the West is on a long-term plan but in a far too distant future. The option of activation within the field is available. They can ensure electrical security on the West. A report on the situation and challenges of Iceland's energy markets explains the country's energy demand with reference to the priorities of the government's policy on climate. The Westfarthing chapter shows that the electric forecast of the West is not considered to be a positive change in the area. According to Vestur's application plan, there are growth factors in the region, including those in the United States. Fish farming, tourism, fishing, and energy - related activities Energy-related activities will increase in intensity with this trend only. They also say that in the years to come, it takes even to eliminate the demand for energy for a paraparagus factory in Sussavík, packaging for fish farms, along with energy exchange. Inhaling is the longest in preparation in this region. In preparation, there is a wind power plant in Garpsdal, a Smoke Company. Detailed suggestions for improving the transport system of the region, which has been an inhibitory component of the structure, have been made. In recent years, efforts have been made in recycling of the diffuser system on both the West and the northeast corner, which turns toward ground-based lines, and the structure has been high in the ringline of fiber optic cables, but the dose is sufficient if electricity transfer into the area is lacking. We all know that electricity is essential for the development of jobs in communities and that energy exchange is taking place in the areas. Reservation to provide users in the country with adequate supply of electricity was decompressed by electricity law in 2003, but the supply of electricity should be determined by market laws. The report on the situation and challenges of Iceland's energy policy states that current legislation does not predict the responsibility or duty of any person to the general market, but it is clear that the demand for energy on the public market has grown over the past few years. The report says, with the permission of the president: ...a work group on the energy security of a total electrical market pointed to the possibility of measuring for law-enforcement services in accordance with the EU energy directive No. 2009/72 indicating that a home should have the right to deliver electricity of a certain quality. The Minister has assigned a group of members to follow the proposals of the above working group to change the rule of work, with the aim of ensuring the public's energy security. A respectable president. We need to use economic motivation in these areas, further inquisitors for the public and the company. A significant reduction in the line will have been seen on the West, and energy potential could be reflected instead as a source of environmental energy to those using eco-friendly energy. We need more economic incentives to speed up energy exchanges, as has been the case with transport energy exchange. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for this discussion, an important discussion, which should be regular at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u135	A respectable president. The fact is, major changes are already in the environment, disasters that threaten the existence of all human life and animal life, threatening all life on earth. We're already seeing very clearly. These changes all of us need to be present and to adapt in a painful way, but many of them, of course, do not work out as hard as they do. Yet, in the worst circumstances, all of us experience them. People are forced to resort to extremes. In the worst cases, people are forced to flee their own home, escape disasters, and famine. Therefore, it's not just about the duties we have toward our own society, it's not just about our local community, because the inactivity in these matters violates the moral obligation we have as human beings, violates the obligation we have toward all human life and futures and the responsibilities we have toward the environment and all its environment. Iceland should be a model for all nations when it comes to climate and first to become independent of oil. We've got everything we need. We have renewable energy sources and opportunities to improve electricity generation. We are a small but rich nation in which the general public supports pride in climate. At the same time, we have a somewhat high maintenance program that, though, sets an honorable and ambitious goal for Iceland's fossil fuel free in 2040 that seems to have become empty. No plans, no actions. There is little evidence that the government intends to fulfill this goal, and there is a bitter performance. Icelanders who want to do well in climate matters were excited about the first play of a new environmental, energy and climate minister. He introduced a status report on energy targets and the focus of the government on climate. The report is useful. It highlights the situation and the great challenge to eliminate every drop of fossil fuels in the next 18 years. Above all, however, the report contains a judgment against those who handle climate and energy control in the country. It is, in fact, there. Shows that there is no correlation between energy focus and climate. The license for new energy processing and the growth of the transport system are indiscriminate, support of the State for energy exchange and innovation is in damages. This is the success of the three conservative groups who have been ruling since 2017. This actually means quietness, inaction since 2017. What then draws attention to the first performance of the new Minister is that there are no decisions, no actions, no plans to find. Of course, that is typical of the present government. They don't have the guts to make big decisions. Rather, they have the best chance of not having to take a political stand. This may change, however, because there may be some intervening situation, situation, and strength because of scandals. First the band of forwards at the Bavon Hall and then the Independence Party through the bank sale. It may be that left green now strengthens its position and can only move within the ranks of the government. We will monitor if VG will use this position. Climate and energy, however, are strong political and therefore, in my opinion, the government is out of control. We need to make difficult decisions. Whole society's energy exchange requires a lot of energy, as was clearly shown in the status report. Will energy be the priority for energy exchange? To reduce energy sales to the current sector, such as - for a battery dig? What incentives will be used to make the energy exchange in the fishing road go to full? Is Iceland headed to energy private, or will any of the green energy be imported? How much and where to activate? There is a disagreement on these key elements within the government, but these are things that concern society's future. A number of analyses have been available on high energy demand for energy exchanges and a minister's report drew them together. But it's only half told. Even if governments respond swiftly and promptly and loyally to the supply of electricity in the future, they must be used to use this green energy. The European Government has to support the early steps of companies and individuals who intend to replace contaminated energy sources with green energy. This has done a great job in the minivan of family cars, and now it's time for the rest. You have to build wood so that every truck, every ship, every plane, can switch into energy. The first steps will be unacceptable and not open to everyone. There the State must step in, work with the economy, and bridge the gap for a while. At the same time, companies who are infested have to pay accordingly. A good carbon charge and a green relic is the speed of energy exchange. In turn, carbon expenditures should be used to support energy exchanges and to meet homes that are badly at their expense. You see, it is not enough simply to say that it is activated, activated, activated, as some put it. The government isn't just supposed to secure the supply, they have to do it, and we're supposed to do it our sustainable way, but the green energy also needs to be truly new. Energy exchange brings not only greener and better society but we can become independent of the world when it comes to energy. Energy-separated nations are now at the top of the European energy sector following, including Russia's invasion of Ukraine We are fortunate that national energy sources heat and describe Icelandic homes, not imported gas. The European Union is going to speed up its energy exchanges in terms of climate and energy independence. Of course, we should be exemplary in this, as well as in other ways, using national energy to drive our community forward and all transport to and from the country. When it comes to the greatest threat of our time, we just have to make a lot of demands. We have to stay on our toes, that's the point, because the consequences are getting worse, in line with our inactivity. Of course, Iceland is in an ideal position to be of service. We are a prosperous society that has vast resources and resources. We have a lot to offer. Here is a great deal of knowledge and knowledge that we can apply for our benefit. We also have important experiences that we can share. Let's take advantage of this, my dear senator's world, and take great steps now.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u136	Madam President. Here's our time well spent. We are discussing the results of the assessment of energy positions and challenges. What I have to stress in this discussion is the importance of nature protection being guided by all decisions made on energy. We know of our own trials and how decisions have been dealt with irreparable actions in Iceland, which, like my partner, have been taken. paritaprevir Orri Páll Jóhannsson, mentioned in his talk, even left his entire communities in wounds so that there is no healing. It is not just ancient history, as some seem to think. Even today, this is the situation of society's inhabitants, which is full of yet another horrors, to the unmannered Icelandic nature, one of our precious resources. Another problem is made up of the vast majority of Eastern nations with the proposed activation of the Valley of Goatdal in the Valley of Eden. How can this be happening, Madam President? I'm asking the highest. Ministers whether we as a community have learned nothing, whether we are really going to continue to destroy unquenchable Icelandic nature and what has been the worst of our terrible journeys in the East. Yes, and this in order to cope with energy shortages, while about 80% of the electricity produced here goes to a major industry. Social reconciliation may include fixing the transport systems, making better use of the assets that have already been taken and disrupting the land, making plans, and following the legal procedures of how we want to manage our energy, whether by water or wind, making it play together, so that we do not have to go so violently to Icelandic nature, as well as to the public. When these goals are achieved, the excess energy produced in domestic energy exchange is so fundamental. The exchange of energy must be righteous. Energy exchange in different sectors of society needs to be guaranteed, but it is always independent of the population or its economic situation. Remember, the demand for energy is not meant to be the guide. The energy demand will never be satisfied. We can activate each wise one, we can do windmills to sea and land, but while the decision is that big business and corporations have priority, there will always be a lack of energy for the good of the people. For the last time, I would like to report that I had recently been in the highest tower of the Christian City Hall in Copenhagen, where the prime committee visited the dance committee. Although the view was magnificent, we could have no doubt that the windmills, which crushed their monotoned ring along a circle, were slightly indented by the eyes. I asked my colleagues if it wasn't a bit cultural and worth looking to the neighbors, such as in so many countries, and filling up the Coral fun just with windmills and even sea farms and even allowing unstealed continents of Iceland to remain in peace. It was not surprising, though, that no one was impressed with this, and it is worth remembering before such plans are crushed into the throat of the inhabitants of the country. We can do this well, Madam President, and I would like to encourage the highest. Minister on to good works. I have been happy with his work since his office. We can make this right, we can do this for the good of the people and the Icelandic nature, but we must stand up and do it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u137	Madam President. I want to start by thanking you for this discussion and reporting here and thank you very much. Minister for this report, which I believe was extremely useful in finding formality. Especially is it appropriate to commend the pace and pace of the work. Exceptionally, reporting takes as short a time as above and is being done at the same time as in this case. Some have come up in this discussion and have tried to emphasize specifically that this is a state report, not a government policy, and at the same time that it is, of course, precisely, that I have a measure of concern with the reasonable films drawn up there that not everyone in a rhythm in the government group is going to achieve the goals so clearly that we need to achieve the increased production of green energy. I want to, because there's a really good time I have here this time, to sound the most. To that end, a minister now makes it his main objective, and I think it is, in fact, but I'm going to make the most of it. A minister to get ahead of it is turning toward the frame plan for the sector that operates in the energy growth of the country around -- of course, it is very different, both large energy producers and then this large number of smaller sources of energy that do not fall under a framework plan, while the larger members with tasks that fall under a frame plan have been inexploited for quite a long time. As I have said in previous talks, there is a very special situation that now a plan for the material structure is being developed for a fourth time. It's my ex-fiancée. Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, on behalf of the Outfit Party, Heirt Olafsdótttir, then environmental minister, on behalf of Ólafsdóttir's future, and I don't think she was discussed at that council but submitted, then came in. Minister of last election period, Ingi In Guðbrandsson, and then now the highest. Environment, energy, and climate minister, the God-given Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, who submit a financial framework. I think it'll be a lot of damage if we go through this council, which is now reduced to one end, taking into account the preceding two weeks' intermission, if we end up finishing this spring council without the fact that the Third Framework has been brought to the ground, as it were. I just want to make it look great. A minister to overweight achieve this matter and through so that he can get on with the fourth box. Because if it fails now, I think the first time is the best time to throw in the towel and say this experiment, which, in many ways, is so good and reasonable, to create this tool that would produce different views and achieve balance and dances in society in terms of energy efficiency, I'm afraid that it would be completely ruined. I'd like to warn you that there will be a way here at the council Hall, that there will be a great increase in the waiting party, to the task of both protection and innovation. I think we're moving back in that way, and it's going to be very hard for us to get on with the necessary means. I wanted to use the few minutes I had here at the end to make the most of it. A minister in these areas and rejoice that this report has been prepared, for it is produced with great professionalism and rapid, well - known agents and is quick to put themselves into things, so this is a tremendous basis for building on top. But what scares me is the tone that comes even. ... froma partner of the highest. Minister, I think it's the kind of thing to do that is to draw your feet in terms of strengthening support for further production of green energy in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u138	A respectable president. Yes, it is important that we take this matter up in this room. The energy issues are a vast group of paintings that affect all the smells of modern society. As mentioned earlier, the Green Book reports the situation and challenges of energy. Just as it is important to identify the situation for the country's future prospects for further economic growth as well as to implement the national government's targets on climate. According to the Green Book, investments in energy projects so far have not followed the goals of climate change. The report now shows that by the energy exchange, energy needs to be added to the growth of employment. Already, a number of projects supporting the work of the country all over the country have been rejected on the grounds that no energy is available. It stands as a ground structure for cleaning and has been limited in recent years according to demand. It is important to keep it in place here that the U.S. Congress has given the highest court case. The environmental, energy and climate minister who will, given that something is going to happen in this council, is developing a significant movement on the seminary for the first time in a long time. It's, for example. The frame that's being discussed in the night. The Environment and Transport Committee, and hopefully will be back here in the hall soon, but the box has not been able to change since 2013, as it has been shown today. There is also the matter of enlargement of activation, which is scheduled today, which, of course, must be in the interest of nature protection and is a good thing. Then said the highest. Minister earlier in the week for the adjustment of the framework of the support system subsidies of house - to - house heating costs to precisely improve energy efficiency. The need to set energy priorities is often expressed, but there is no solution to the problem. They see every man. I don't speak against setting priorities. It is only natural that the country's home should be able to supply safe electricity. However, I do not feel that it alone can solve our energy exchange challenges, and that does not answer the opportunities here. Energy exchanges outside the private vehicle are going too slow, and there is a great deal of effort, research, and development. But we also need to be ready for the energy when it is needed. We need, for example. To ensure that this land will be produced by hydrogen if the energy exchange solution becomes increasingly hydrogen use. Similarly, we are under obligation to respond to the comments made in the report in a quick and safe manner, the comments aimed at the development of complex regulations and time - consuming licences. The cry comes from all parts of the country, and it will be answered. In this excellent report it is said that it is important to create as much social reconciliation as possible about the electrical power system and the community's energy needs. So, indeed, I can be a follower but to a degree. It is now that energy issues are climate issues. We cannot accept delays because of necessary action in behalf of climate and the crisis. I need to encourage the highest. Secretary of the climate to impress these matters. First, it was very helpful and necessary to go to work to identify our energy challenge and to present what the real situation is. The book of Green Book is the very contents of the discussion that was missing. It puts us in the same place, all in the same place, without claims that don't hold our mind. What this debate shows us again and again is how powerful the leadership of the Independence Party is in environmental and climate matters, and we do it just fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u139	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a report on the state and challenges of energy with reference to the goals and emphasis of the government on climate. We Icelanders often consider energy for granted, which we will always have access to without effort or sacrifice. The number of people who know that they do not have access to the supply of daily life is reduced and they can, for example, be used. not had electrical equipment connected 24 hours a day. There are also fewer and fewer people who know that it is not natural laws that there is always hot water in the taps. In fact, during the last few weeks and months, society has had a kind of kick in the bottom of energy or a warning light has blinked that it is in lack of energy for the development of employment and energy exchanges. These warnings include: Published by the lack of energy to the telecommunication of the telecommunication industry and fish industry, but these have also been reflected in the challenges that many European countries now face in energy issues following the actions of Pútín in Ukraine, the unique settlements and habitats of the country below to meet the challenges of access to energy and delivery security. Seducation of energy is an important factor in independence and self - control, the basis of food security, the development of employment life, and these are the large issues on the agenda of the world's political and future well-being, which include changes in energy supply and energy consumption to climate - related energy sources needed to restore climate change. The good news from this report, however, is that we are at the point of seeing warning signs, allowing time and space to act. In the Treaty, the importance of responding and the report we address here is an important tool for enforcing the policy of the government. The full use of natural resources is accompanied by challenges and often difficult decisions. Achieving and using energy or building up wood requires land use and resource use. A respectable president. Icelandic society cannot expect other nations to sacrifice their natural resources for us. It is our duty to contribute to the world's energy sources, to provide ourselves with sustainable energy, but, of course, we need to do so with the slightest possible negative environmental impact and all waste. Therefore, the emphasis in the Government Treaty on creating an agreement on the use of resources is a key factor in response to challenges. It says exactly that we stress the struggle with climate change by contraction in emissions, energy exchange and green investment while the emphasis will be on the balance of economic, social and environmental factors, i.e. Self-sustaining. More energy needs to be gained, energy transport and delivery are needed. We have to watch the big movie, but we must not forget smaller settlements and scattered territories and opportunities for energy and transport to them. That's exactly the point I want to stop and not forget the importance of promoting the electrical system, including the spread system outside the main transport system. It takes e.g. The ring-links should also be performed. It belongs, for example. On the outside of the Grinch and the northeast corner, and although this is not part of the main transport system and its structure programmes, it should not be forgotten. Also, there are no ways to rule out sustainable energy sources and many of the data mentioned in this report, the importance of motivation to reduce the demand for electricity, and the motivation to use heat pumps and wood production. Indeed, it is very exciting to be in the community with energy, improved efficiency, and integration of different projects. I'd like to go over a few things that I brought up in my discussions about other matters here last night because I've got a little more information now. When energy supply had to be reduced in recent winter, waste was used to swallow telecommunications in Nes shops, where the need for oil combustion was reduced. It has a company that works wood bulbs or sludges of waste, which is then burned in a special oven that creates minimal environmental heat. In Europe, such heat centers are becoming more common, and both waste and gauze can be used or other forest products can be produced to produce the pearls. Both in the River Valley and at Hallorm's place are so much the same centers as those of high technology have been made in such sexual centers in a very short time. A respectable president. These are tasks that certainly give rise to the aims of the cycle economy and sustainable and green energy use. But we also need to keep looking for hot water in cool areas, using biodiesel, methadone, methadone, and solar energy, etc., as many have come into this discussion. There are also a number of factors in the tubes for electricity, and I find the most efficient way to mention the preparation of a green energy park designed to produce hydrogens, as well as the additive effect of other activities in the region, such as energy exchange in sea transport and agriculture, recycling of food for house warming and the use of oxygen in fish farms. The report includes such things as brilliant solutions and innovation companies, which have a direct objective of making better use of energy or using industrial rocks and many other exciting things that are happening. Finally, I'd like to say, all citizens of the country must have the opportunity to be participants in the energy exchange, and this will only be done through the use of diverse means of energy recovery by attaching the constant targets of electricity to the overall future. I feel that the discussion has been very important, and I want to thank her for it. I think the results of it are that we need to continue to encourage cooperation with the solutions of the challenges that are drawn up in the report, and cooperation can lead to solutions to integrated climate targets and energy targets.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u140	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity and thank you for a very good and objective discussion. I think it's safe to say that. This report is well accepted by members of the Parliament, and it is a good tool, as I mentioned, to handle these major projects. I got a request from what? paritaprevir Orri, son of Páll Jóhannsson, to see if setting priorities would not be in the home. As noted, over the past year, I set up an electrical security team to examine that issue accurately, and that is in accordance with what happened. paritaprevir It's just that Þórunn, Sveinbjarnardóttir Bearddotttir, was referring to, to be answered. I think most people are on the point that it's important that we go to work fast. There's a hurry on this big matter. One thing that humans have mentioned is a simple rule. paritaprevir In Berglind of Ósk speech of the government opposition, howeverGuðmundsdóttir it has been referred to as a heat - pumps bill. However, the activation enlargement bill is not yet observed. I thought it was something special. paritaprevir Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir's Þorgerður spoke of little doing here because the only thing that stands in the way of progress is the tone of voice of government opposition. It's a real part of the restoration. It is sad, however, to hear humans speak like skunks. A senator did and said that we should take the EU as a role model in energy. Oh, my God, if that were the way. We're here talking about a union that's in such trouble, and the world's in trouble because it's on the Russians. They have 30% of renewable energy, but we have 85% and I'm not going to go deeper into it. Then came a why. paritaprevir Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, had great confusion and went so far as to call out why. Senator Left Green. I thought that was it. A senator's intention was to point out that I was like the former leaders of the Independence Party, which were out of the heat - treatment system and the electricization to deal with humans as well as with the driving force. A senator who wanted to hold on to oil and coal and gas. But it wasn't. Or at least then. A senator would point out that I was like David Cameron. A senator met as prime minister and was setting out to sea cables. Why did David Cameron want a cable? Yes, it was because of the climate. But it wasn't. Then there was a why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and it's not been his day yet, so I'm sure. However, it was not the time to chase after all the misdeeds presented there. But I have to say, a respectable president, that being suspicious of such things as that. One member of the United States made reports and tried to downplay their duties, feeling that it was not appropriate to do something deeper in the year. I don't think anyone ever said anything like that. When a senator was demeaning their duties, he did so. In fact, that is so. A senator here in each speech after another great rage and hate, and it would be good if it could be activated in the interests of energy exchange. This would make the project much easier. But the main thing is, a respectable president, like what. paritaprevir Diljá Mist Einarsdóttir said that this is a matter we're supposed to discuss here because it's a priority. We have a very high climate goal, and everyone has to lie down on one thing to get it. That's why I'm not here to be proud of being solving that case, because no one does it alone. That's why we're going to work with our jobs and our community all, not just what. I hope the members of Congress will keep everyone, because this is a national campaign if we are going to reach the goals we have set for ourselves. Someone has said they're way too lofty. [[The president calls.]] Think of those who walked ahead of us as heating - repaired countries, what a grand task it was when they were not as well equipped as they are today! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u141	Madam President. First, I must make a note that the meeting has been called in while a meeting was still being held in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I thought there was an agreement to interrupt a meeting during that meeting, to see the unexpected meeting, to be finished, is customary here not to have a meeting during the hearing of the committee. So I make a comment about this, but I think that will continue to review the context of this major issue, which is the world's concern for refugees. I had mentioned things like the fact that this growing number of refugees and other refugees who have taken place in the past few years has not occurred because of poverty or increased conflicts, of course, with certain exceptions, such as men know, but with other changes in the world, including transport and communication technology. I also pointed out that all research has shown that the number of people who seek another, leave their own lands, will not decrease as the prosperity of these countries increases, developing countries, but will increase. It grows considerably, especially until the annual income is about $7,500 but it continues to increase thereafter, actually not quite as fast. Then I was beginning to review the size of the world, so to speak, Madam President, and that's what I'm doing for a discussion that happened here that we don't necessarily have to set limits, we don't have to set priorities. There I traced the population growth in many countries. I'm not going back to what I already had, but this adds to the fact that many large countries and especially China now play a role in many developing countries, and that in many cases, economic growth increases. Often it is about resource use and is more likely to increase this number than the other. Then there is the natural growth of people I mentioned earlier. This brings us to the link between cities, to form in Europe, which has carried the heat and weight of this. There are cities like London, Munich, Germany, and Stockholm. They will be cities of absolute magnitude compared to the largest city in Africa after not so many years. After some 30 years, actually less than that, Lagos will be formed in Nigeria and Kinshasa in East Coongo will become what is called megacitys, not big cities, but megacities with 30 to 40 million inhabitants in each city. They will be much bigger than to form Paris and London, but not as numerous as Dhaka in Bangladesh, which will be even bigger. Then you must wonder, Mrs. President, if these things are not right to be put in context, if London will not be within so many years just a fraction of one city in a developing world, if it is reasonable to form in that city, in London, there will be no limit to the number of people there to look for better biographies, for the relatively few London residents will predict the future at least enjoy a better life span than 40 million in Lagos. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. Now, I'm just about to get back on my tour after I got knocked off with an unexpected meeting and ask you to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u142	Madam President. I think it is true, for those who are now being observed, to mention here briefly whatever it is that I believe it is necessary to be brought to the work of the Committee between 2 and 3. In this matter. It has been observed, in clear answers to the highest. Minister, that the bill is intended for equal service to refugees, whether they come to the country by their own means, by government or by family unity. The answer is from the highest level. Minister to the bill agreed to the bill, the individuals who come here on grounds other than the hat of the armitarian system, which are said by the state to cooperate with the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, will enjoy the same rights as the guidelines of the refugee Commission on receiving and helping with the refugee groups published on May 10, 2013. In this regard, the emphasis is especially on Article 15. Which frames this in, but chapter 3 of its entire chapter deals with the rights of the greeting people who are enjoying the arrival of this country. This effect is entirely different from the impact that is tried to evaluate the costs of the bill that we believe is so important that it will be produced and, in fact, completely unacceptable that it is offered to members of the council to take sides on a matter as important as it is below, without the costs being available. It should not in itself be necessary to make a big difference in people's viewpoint on the matter, but it is so that we cannot as members of the body make decisions about important matters that have a major impact on individuals and the interests of the state, both in plus - minus, in the long term. It is not acceptable for us to make such a decision consciously with our eyes and to overlook a factor that is easy to grasp. What I'm referring to here is that of the expense food, as it happens in the bill, up to 40.8 billion. K. This year, only turns to the estimated work expenses of the Métro plant and purchases a desk and chairs under these fine workers. I'm speaking here, and it's not difficult to calculate, that the cost arms are being made up of the number of people who will enjoy increased rights on the basis of a uniform service based on those who have received protection and rights within the time frame of the 15th paragraph. Refugee Commission guidelines frames and annual costs calculated, e.g. Based on the average number of the last three years, the same number of people will be given protection every year, and the proportion of people who come by other routes will be comparable to that of the past few years. It's not a complicated arithmetic. This is a very simple account example, so you can see that before the case comes for a final pass on the third round, this information will be available. It is absurd to conclude that this case will be agreed here at the council on the basis of the current cost assessment. It would even be worse to handle government money, but you often feel that the treatment of money is on the other side of the street at another administrative level. This is what I would like to say at the beginning of the discussion after the rest of her life for those new ones who come to the TV or who come back into the room. I'll tell you what. Senators welcome those who have just arrived to the hall and are watching with spiritistics. It is a pleasure to witness. It is essential that this is being held in place and kept in mind whatever it is we want to call out, and it is necessary to call out before this bill is available for the final payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u143	Madam President. I was still putting things in perspective, discussing the huge population growth that is predictable in many parts of the West and mentioning them as a reminder of the importance of priorities and primarily trying to help the people who really need help. There have been ideas here since then. Pirata's members are supposed to be open, and whoever wants to come to Iceland should be able to move here, as it would be. Pizza anyway is never any particular appeal to coming here. First, the name of the country was Iceland. One down. A senator referred to it as a great obstacle. Second of all, it would be so far away and not very desirable here. But, of course, this is not the case, on the contrary, as we see it, this losser will develop, where the demand for asylum in Iceland has become relatively much higher than to form in Denmark and Norway, which, however, are part of or near European continents rather than Iceland. A total of 350,000 people may quickly become troubled if they do not cover the border and set their priorities. If we want to do good, we need to set priorities in that we can help those who are most in need and who are doing so well. I was going over the development of the population to put this into context and to explain why such careless statements such as those people will, anyway, be dangerous. However, if the United Nations and the World City Institute, known as Global Cities Institute, are known to be in foreign lands, much more of the present - day Icelanders will experience that there are more people living in one city in Nigeria, Lagos, than in all Germany. This is going to happen from 2060. Then there will be more residents in one city in Nigeria than in the whole country, Germany. At about the same time, the total number of Nigerians will be higher than all existing EU countries combined. I'm going to repeat this, Madam President: At the same time, the number of people in this one country in Africa will be higher than the population of all the present European Union. One country, a developing country in Africa, with more people than the population of the European Union. And will anyone say that there are no limits to where some who want to seek a better life could come to Iceland or to other Europeans? I'm sorry, Madam President, but it's just not realistic. It would be good if it were realistic and opportunities could be given to all, people from countries that are worse off than in Iceland, although at times some of these people believe that they can hardly be worse than here. But we know that's nonsense. Of course, it would be nice if the whole world could move to Iceland and Iceland would stay as it is. But that is not the case. That's not realistic, Madam President. Then I say again: One developing country in Africa will have more people, no more than 40 years, less than 40 years, 38 years, but total total population of the European Union. And this was at the time when Britain was part of the European Union. We need to approach this matter based on facts and how best to respond to them in order to do the most good. But again, Madam President, I have to be just about to get started with the context of things when the time is up. Therefore I beg you to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u144	Madam President. I would like to combine my discussion with the proper effect of international protection under the rules for foreigners, No. 540/2017, taking into account how the approach is in the bill presented in relation to this anticipated reception with the uniform rights of all groups. By permission of the President, it says in 31 st. Implementation regulations, No. 540/2017 on the proper effects of international protection: ▪ Every person who comes to the country on the invitation of the Icelandic government. 43. g. the law of foreigners, and the one that we call in the everyday speech of vagrantists - the same as they and those who have been given a living permit on the basis of 73th and 74rd respectively. The same law shall be offered to provide education and counselling on the rights and duties and main information about Icelandic society, including information on employment opportunities, housing, Icelandic education and general education. These individuals should be available to assist in their association with the local community they intend to settle into. The reason why I mention this is that it seems here to me when it is created that the goals of the bill's text work out to draw up, but then it's designed in the available bill that other rights are included there, which are, as I've come in before, specifically stated in Article 15. The direction of the refugee committee on receiving and helping with the groups of refugees. It makes a big difference if we look at the ways in which these things are outlined, in the laws concerning foreigners, and in other relevant rights. What I have so far cannot be understood is in what way this bill's expense assessment is drawn up, which, in fact, says that the bill has no impact on the costs of any part of the system except from the three employees who are going to add to a multi-human site. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. The objectives specified in the bill text itself, as the main item of this verse, are, with permission of the president: ◯... A multicultural facility offers professional counseling and counselling in connection with the reception of individuals with protection. Then, in addition to hostilities and services based on available information and on specific factors, such as the possibility of education, access to necessary health services, employment opportunities, and transportation, it is a place for the press to keep a wide variety of public knowledgeable. These are all the same factors that are outlined in the article that I read from the Regulation on foreigners, which has been in force since 2017, so it is not as if this channel is not available. This overemphasis on the approval of this bill in the way it is presented here makes you suspect that it's believed that there's something coming up in the market, in addition to what is outlined in the bill's text. In the talk of the Supreme Court. Minister, I have to admit that I have to look up whether it was the current minister of the seminary or the speaker of the case at the previous council, he spoke in a way that it was already a test project carried out in a few places and that the plan was to evaluate how these experimental projects had been carried out. Of course, it would be interesting to have an overview of how these experimental projects have taken place since this talk was given. But this, of course, does not say that it is easy to achieve the goals specified in the main material of the report in any other way than this vast expansion of the rights of the four groups listed in letters a, b, c, and e in 2.g. The bill. The D team I left in this list are individuals whom the Icelandic government has invited to settle down here in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization. A respectable president. I'm in the middle of this subject and I need a president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u145	Madam President. I have been here giving examples of population growth in developing countries, in comparison to the Western countries, to stress that this big and important matter that the refugee stream will only grow, and they call for our response on the basis of our use of the funds we have and the opportunities we can give in the most reasonable way. Especially did I take an example of Nigeria, Madam President. There are many other countries. I chose primarily one country because it is the land where most people have come to Europe in recent years in search of a better life or refuge. In these countries, including Nigeria, there is a tremendous structure and I believe, as I could in yesterday's speech, that many Westerners have some prejudice against developing countries and imagine that the situation there is somehow much less developed than there is, to form in cities like Lagos mentioned. In Nigeria there are over 90% of mobile phones, and the land is rich in resources. They have oil and gas resources, like our Uncles North and possibly Icelanders, although not allowed. But when the population of this country grows as much as any of Norway's people every year, which is the case in Nigeria, then there is not as much change as in Norway, apart from the fact that the produce is not always in common funds. The population growth is so intense and, at the same time, the structure is very high. Lagos is building a new section of the city, Eko Atlantic City he is called, and interested people can look at pictures of this part of the city and plans there on my website of the demurdavid.is. This is an enormous part of the city with skyscrapers, perhaps the best of Dubai. The population in this new neighborhood, this new part of the city, is expected to be between 250,400,000, comparable to all in Iceland, but the number of people in this new neighborhood is equivalent to the growing population in Lagos in only 65.9 months. The number of people who live in the city has grown to an estimated total of all prospective inhabitants of this new area. If we separate them from Nigeria only for a different comparison, many Icelanders may not know the city of Blantyre - I don't know if it's right, Madam President - but by the turn of the century, it is predicted that the population of that city will be 57 million, far more than in any European city, now or then, than this city, Blantyre, is the second largest city in Malawi. Malawi no doubt knows many of Iceland's people. There we have been developing, but our country's capital city, Lilongwe, grows even larger. Blantyre will be 57 million people, but her capital city, Lilongwe, will be even bigger. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. It still happens to me to be right to get on foot, get on the road, put things in context, and then time is up. Therefore I beg you to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u146	Madam President. There are things I came into last night which I only want to frame back for those who are observing now in the day. I think that part of the argument that the matter is taken on this particular week between intermissions is the situation in Ukraine, a large number of refugees from which these weeks come. There is no doubt about the importance of welcoming those who escape conflict in their homeland, and I hear only that, in every sense, what is more successful has been so far. In this context, I have to make comments that the situation that exists, the flow of refugees that comes from these weeks, is used as evidence that this particular matter has to be rushed through which the long - term adjustments of those who are being protected here, with the idea that the members of the group will be allowed to move here for a long time. Happily, most of those who now escape Ukraine plan to return as soon as possible, although none of us know how long that calamity will last. But the problem they face is a completely different nature than the long - term structure of people's affairs in their search for protection here in Iceland. So I think we have to get close to what is going to be the Ukraine and the refugee stream from there as a completely specific matter, completely special, and not mix it with this puzzle in a global conference law on immigrants'case. It's totally different, the goal is to ensure the long - term adaptation of those who attend here and here are being protected, but the goal of providing real emergency assistance to the large number of people who come here today from Ukraine. I mentioned here in my first speech that there is likely somewhere in the campaign for Congress to do a procedure that was sent to a government conference last spring and completed there in September 2021. When I searched the Internet, I noticed that this council council order had been distributed on April 1. but it has not yet been recommended. So I'm surprised if it makes any sense, as seems to be the planned minister, to break up these matters. It beats me so fast that these are the opposite order of things, i.e. To finish this case before the Senate conclusion proposal that frames the larger picture, let alone the perks of it. In view of this, I believe that it is wise to keep this matter before the coming intermissions of the council and give it to a committee, whether it was a financial committee or a driving committee. A global and educational committee, an opportunity to analyze the figures here called for information. As it is now, this is being done with considerable handbacking. I'm going to, because my time is getting shorter in this public speaking program, to implement the provided regulations that were distributed here on April 1. in my next talk. A respectable president. I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u147	Madam President. I have been reviewing the major changes that have taken place in the world over the past few decades and will take place in the predictable future. In a speech earlier, I pointed out that a city few in Malawi, Blantyre, would be a city of 57 million people at the end of this century, and its capital city, Lilongwe would be even bigger. At the same time, it is clear that the population of people who want to look for a better standard of living will continue to grow rapidly, year after year, decade after decade. This requires our priorities, on the one hand, to help these countries, developing countries, to build themselves, to do what we can to protect human rights and also to increase prosperity. Still, it will not diminish, at least for the next few decades, from the crowds who will look for something else. On the contrary, as I traced here, it will increase. So within one lifetime, the world will change very much, and the chemicals will be very large and will require that the reaction be measured by content and facts, not by superficial human beings, which, unfortunately, represent all too much politics today. In any case, the exact rate of evolution makes it clear that it will have a very significant impact on the environment, on security, on the economy, and on a number of other things. The balance that has existed will affect many people. Other factors are inevitable. The danger, of course, is that it leads to conflict within or between countries. Let us realize that a war between countries, such as I've mentioned and other countries, with such enormous numbers of people, I don't talk about with modern weapons, could mean more horror than you want to imagine. But whether it is prevented or not, it is at least It's clear that transport between parts of the world is just going to increase, and we need to take it into account. Thus, there has been concern that even now, despite what might be called a relatively small number, but relatively small, compared with what is coming, it has put a very great strain on building European governments and creating turmoil within their countries. That is all there is to it, and the European Union's problems are increasing, so I plan to spend a lot of time in this discussion in tracking them. However, this predictable trend serves as a reminder of the importance of human becoming a part of Europe, in European politics. And what do I mean by that? Yes, what I'm always hammering around here is allowing people to discuss the facts and content and tailor solutions to reality because we need them, we've needed them, and we'll still need them more than we do in the future. That is why it worries you to see that the Icelandic government promotes a bill that seems unthinkable, to say the least. And despite the fact that it is coming back after several experiments, people have not yet had so much as to calculate the financial impact of it. Someone may feel inappropriate over a head to calculate the financial impact of matters that are involved in helping people. Unfortunately, Madam President, it is necessary for us to make the most of our resources in order to help as many people as possible and to help those who really need help. But there is no place in this government bill. Madam President. I always think time goes faster and faster, but as a result, I ask you to register again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u148	Madam President. I was left out of a printed copy of a proposal for a political resolution on the role of immigrants in the affairs of 2,202,2025, which was distributed here at the General Assembly of 1st April. has not been established. I want to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Conference Office for their brilliant response to getting me this document. This is a Senate resolution based on the policy set up in a report that I mentioned earlier, which was from 2019 and is precisely referred to in the bill discussed here. I have to reiterate what I said in my last speech that the order of the parts is a little strange to me. I would have thought that this council resolution proposal would be approved before the bill under discussion and that all part of it must be based on a general view of the case. This document is 35 pages, and I want to grab off on page. 33, in a chapter called About Refugees. It says in section 5.1, on a coordinated service to refugees and those who have been protected internationally by a president's permission: ▪ A growing number of individuals and families are forced to flee their homelands because of persecution and war. At the same time, more people want international protection in Iceland. Until recently, much of the number of people who received international protection in Iceland came through the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, under government command. In the past, refugees who have made their own way to the country were a small group but have gone on increasing in the last five years. 87% of those who were protected in Iceland in 2019 were individuals who came on their own. Some differences have been made in the services of these two groups, but the basic difference is that the state's budget pays the employee expenses of rural society because of the first year but not because of its own means, and rural society provides rent rooms when it comes to capitalist persons, while others have to find housing for themselves. They have been working to balance the service with all refugees and are now starting a series of experiences to 12 months of a consistent reception of refugees from interested rural communities. The project will be evaluated and the changes introduced that are needed. This is what the chapter says about refugees. This, of course, shows the fundamental changes that are going to be accomplished in the duties of the State to those who come here for protection. Nothing can be misunderstood if you try to tip your toe around it in the text of the bill itself, but this is just drawn up here in a very simple and clear way in this synopsis proposal. As it says again, by permission of the President: While there have been several differences in service to these two groups, the basic difference is that the state's budget pays the employee expenses of its members because of the services they perform during the first year rather than because of those who come on its own, and due to local communities providing rented rooms in terms of capitalist people, while others need to find housing for themselves. This may sound innocent, but it is a major change. If we envision, just for the sake of the discussion and look to a more recent number, there are about 500 people each year who come to a country on their own, which will not be under the premise of the United Nations Refugee Agency, then there are 500 individuals who receive the right to 12 months of assistance in a housing market, and such facilities will not be shaken. It's right in front of us. It seems that these fundamental changes are being made to the relief systems of refugees with a largely additional obligation to the public. They try to do it with some secretrix. [[The president calls.]] I'll get into this better in the next talk. The time is so short now. I'm asking a respectable president to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u149	Madam President. I have recently tried to put this subject into context, and I intend to complete the part of the talks by quoting from the cover page of the series "Murmunddavid.is, by permission of the president. " It says, in an article on these issues: ▪ People will not stop taking advantage of the opportunity they feel would offer to improve their own and their families' rates. [...] People's interests are better than their own, and they're going to keep going. This development, however, does not help real refugees. They are many, and they need much help. The lack of policy and initiative of the European Union and the EU combined with big-scale incentives will not help people in the long run. In the years and decades that follow, a large number of refugees will need to be helped and will be able to handle a huge number of challenges associated with the changing world. Most of today's activities will not disappear if people do not talk about them. They will only grow and become more difficult to deal with the later challenges they face. To begin with, a course is needed. If politicians, officials, media, scholars, and others who have the responsibility to discuss solutions, look to the future, and shape policy, they would not have the largest solution of their day (except with empty freckles), they are leaving the discussion and solutions to the informers. If that happens, it is unlikely that the world will continue to recover. I don't know if members of a dance team of officers have been tracking this website, demurdavid.is, but at least they have at least one. In fact, it must be acknowledged that they have been discussing these matters for a few years and have become leading, these Danish cognitions, discussed in various ways in Europe's seminary. We saw the latest situation when the British decided to take a course that was first wondered about Danish officers and began to study, arriving at a reception center in the African nation of Rwanda. The course of a dance crew of this class is vast. It is thought-out, taking care of the whole thing, other than the policy of many political groups, including the groups of Iceland's government in this area. So I think there's a reason to go over the course of this company's dancers, and now I think I will. During the past few years or about 90%, the number of takeoffs has fallen substantially in Denmark. Denmark's quality applications have decreased by 90% since 2015. It is because of a new approach to the local government to this category, not that we should stop helping people, but that we should direct them in the right direction and make them more safe and reasonable. However, in the 2020 Covid year, 585 additional asylums in Iceland were served, while everything was more and less closed for a pandemic. That was relatively 90 times as in Denmark. I have previously noted that by the beginning of the epidemic, there have been six times as many takers in Iceland as in Denmark and Norway, but after the outbreak of the epidemic, this clump has continued to increase and, in view of the supplied applications in this Covid year, 2020, there were a proportion of over nine times as many in Iceland as in Denmark. This is the result of the messages sent by the Icelandic government and the messages sent by the Danish government. [[The president calls.]] But, Madam President, this was just the entrance to a dance course such that I have to ask you to put me back on the rosary so I can get to the main subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u150	Madam President. It's not really acceptable, the situation we are discussing on this matter, that all the representatives of the administrative committees involved in this case jumped to safety. I realized that there was only one member of the board of directors who had participated in this discussion. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, and she may have participated in the discussion because of it. A senator could not help but be the manager of the Committee's opinion of the greater part of the committee. Since then, no one has been seen in this 2nd. In this light, I opened a previous discussion on this matter, and there I spoke up three members of the administrative body. It was Ingi In Guðbrandsson. Minister who gave the order. That was a good time. paritaprevir The Birgir son of Þórarinsson, who is hardly present today, is with the good deputy Erna, the daughter of Bjarnadóttir, here at the council for him. Then it is mentioned as "woe. " paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, who is the spokesman for the case. It's now the whole army that's come here to try to explain what this is all about. And when you find in many ways a better explanation for the impact of the case in a non-communicational arrangement distributed at the Council of April 1, rather than in the text of the bill itself, some members of the Parliament have to be traced through the misunderstanding. Clearly, it is trying to get as light as possible from providing information. I'm sure there are some members of the government who have their own TV set up in their offices, but I don't think there's a lot of money at work. When it becomes clear that the bill's expense assessment is all nonsense, senators refuse to be seen in this discussion. The cost estimate takes only on a complete secondary point in the bigger picture, a complete secondary event. Perhaps members of the board of directors intend to stick their heads in the sand, hoping that the problem will disappear by means of that approach, it will teach the children to whom it has been; it has been a tendency among some government officials recently not to be caught, although the reasons may, of course, be different. But it is absolutely unorthodox that the members of the majority party, I would especially like to tell members of the Independence Party, who generally claim to be watchmen of tax money, and to be careful not to come here and have a word with us in this discussion and criticize how this matter is presented and try to argue that the person here is mistaken. I think it's like, of course, if that were the situation, someone would be here a long time ago to explain that it's all just a bunch of crap we're doing here. But when you read the text of the proposal for action, which lies before it has been spoken, you just see the goal here. It's crazy that we have something that would have to be a threefold cost assessment: one thing that is going to cover the chairs and desks and three employees who are going to hire a multicultural site. This is done: 40.8 million a year plus small personal expenses at first. But then, the two major factors that make any difference are left between parts, one of the costs of moving these large groups, which in the Senate decrees to be 87% candidates for the last five years, 87%, these are almost all, from the regular work of the current law to enjoy the rights of the same basis as the kookies that come here through cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization. - Welcome to the hall and welcome to the council. Senator. [[Take it up: Interesting discussion.]] I know. I'm glad you're here to join her. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Now my time is up, and I have to ask to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u151	Madam President. I had proclaimed that I was going to start a review of a dance course by the officers of the trustees, but I think it's very useful to the Icelandic government now when we seek solutions to help as many as possible of those most in need of help. When I listened to a talk, why? paritaprevir However, in the case of the government's political approach, the government, Bergþór Ólason's son, only to this group, did I begin. Of course, it is surprising that we are here to discuss this matter in 2 Timothy 3: 1. Environment, a matter that involves the fundamental policy change of the Icelandic government, moving away from the course that the North countries are moving toward and going in the opposite direction. We will discuss this at the same time as independence officials do not trust to place their own foreign bill on a program, a case that first appeared in the days of Minister of Justice, Sigríður On. Andersen, but has now been diluted considerably according to my understanding. It'll be interesting to hear the discussion if it ever goes on. However, members of the Independence Party do not rely on putting their own case on the program, take this matter of the forward Party, and the left green green, I think it's safe to say, but it's theirs. Not only are they giving much of the advance party to the mayor but they are also leaving them programs here at the council. This may be a little illuminating for the state of the government these days, the position of the Independence Party towards the rest of the categories. It seems that independence is primarily a delight to be included. Then we heard earlier today that ministers are talking and are alert to their own plans, but we do them without informing the council about it. This may be one of the issues that some ministers have discussed among themselves and warned, but they have not had books and do nothing about it until it is too late. But a better way to replace the history of the policy of dancers in the affairs of the trustees. First a little improvement, Madam President, on the contour. The former government in Denmark had had what was called a strong policy for this class and for the same. Involved legislation that I considered to be a violation of human rights - not really, it didn't feel possible. In the Middle East, the Danish government, advertised the hospices who came to Denmark, would have to deliver most of their possessions if they were above certain criteria, jewelry, money, and what else. Of course, it is reasonable to conclude that no one ever stood to take possessions from people. Why, then, were they doing this? Yes, it was to channel the current, not to Denmark. But to the response of even economists who have developed a very complete policy based on the tribe's heritage, on the political heritage of socipheric codium for 40 years, as I may be going over here later today when I cross the tide and history in a more precise way. This is a policy of great work, a policy that is planned. There is good reason for the Icelandic government to enter this policy, so I feel it is inevitable, in the context of a discussion on this matter, other than a brief review of this policy. I'll then perhaps later, if there's any time, take a closer look at the details. What I've done is that I've written this course in Icelandic, translated it into English. It's Icelandic, and I wouldn't understand what I was saying if I was going to try to read it in Danish, except to some extent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u152	That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u153	Madam President. I was right about starting reading, but that's how it is. I'm waiting for the highest. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u154	Madam President. All I want to do is continue to criticize the members of the board for not participating in the discussion, but it may, of course, be part of the package agreed by the government parties. During the last two conventions, the Specialist Party was to receive this case as part of its own package, but it did not work out. Now this has somehow become part of a package of the left movement ◯ green supply without any material change in the matter between council members. I'm just trying to figure out what the real holding of the case is, except in case it's just the system that would somehow be driving this case. Based on the comments described here from Perone Protection, et cetera. - little by comment, very thought-in and firm, which appeared at the beginning of the year 2000, nothing has been done with them over two years and two forwards later - you ask: "Who is the one that drives this thing? Nobody wants to defend it, nobody, except those who actually can't help but show up. Three members of the board have met in this discussion together, in 1st and 2rd. It's the minister, and he's having trouble not showing up. He gave one speech. Hv. paritaprevir Jódís Skúladóttir, head of the committee's opinion, has held two speeches and a sledge. Birgir Þórarinsson's people gave one talk in their previous round and answered, which did not exactly describe the amount of peace of mind over the subject and effect of the bill, to be spoken of in a mild way. Who's driving this thing? V.E.G. The current minister just got this in his arms. Nothing has been done about it since the highest. A few months ago, a minister took his new office. Is this some perfect system thing so heavily prepared to complete, but the system, which requires the developer to perform his own formality in terms of shape, intends to get away with some virtualism in relation to the cost estimate? I'm kind of going to have to encourage you, special members of the Independence Party, who are screened in your offices, to come over and review this with us here. The same can be said of the senators of the House of Booths. No candidate has spoken in this matter, either with 1st. Or at 2nd. This is the regiment that recommended this matter, the Minister, the last and last council, but the introduction in the matter seems to be that the Congress of the forward Party appears to be totally out of the mind. No one has ever said that. How can this be? Four speeches have been made together in 1 and 2rd. the matter discussed here. Three of the four talks have been delivered by representatives of the left movement ◯ green supply, one of the minister who recommended the case, and two of the more prominent members of the committee. One speech comes from the independent senator Birgi, the son of Thorin. We're talking about one speech combined in a case that is changing what turns to the welcome of the trustees in the Icelandic system, one speech combined from the forward - district members, and an independent party. If you were in opposition, if possible, you would ask one of the officers of these two categories if the person had any explanation for this. This is not lack of interest, it is much more a flight away from the situation. People don't have the guts to deal with the fact that something has been approved by a group of fools, and first out of a government that is wanted by everyone, doesn't have to get involved in explaining in late stages because it doesn't work out the way they're supposed to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u155	Madam President. I was about to start a review of a dance course of officers in these matters that are totally contrary to what the government is suggesting here. I have to admit, I'm just really excited to get into this tour because it's a good thing. Here are some solutions. Nevertheless, I would like to be criticized for this course, for it is beneficial to receive criticism. If the council members of the Central Party are in the audience, or if they hear us somewhere in this house or in nearby houses, I encourage them to show up here and point out the weak points in the Danish policy, as it is helpful to do so. Then we will have a discussion and may be able to do things more fully. But what I'm going to do is go over the main policy, a sort of a summary of policy as a whole. What I've done is translate this into Icelandic. Actually, it's not quite a translation, because I've only softened it, so to speak. It's not as pointed or as hard a course as the quirks in Danish light, I'll soften it and adapt it to Icelandic conditions. Or not adapt to Icelandic situations, just cut out a little of words and replace the word Denmark with Iceland, so you might see more harmony with the situation here. So to speak a direct translation, just a slightly milder version. Once I've been through this entrance, I've come to some specific points of the policy and it's a direct translation. That's where I'm just going to go over it exactly like it's showing up at the Danish taps. But first this introduction, with President's permission: ◯ We have to decide for ourselves how many immigrants we accept. We can't now. There must be a climax to a number of refugees and to bring about a fairer, humanitarian, and pleasure - seeking system. There shouldn't be a search for an overnight sanitarium in Iceland. We will, however, continue to welcome intimidation. Iceland is a small country that has been able to build a better welfare community than any other country. Now I remind a respectable president that this is a Danish text, except that I have put Iceland instead of Denmark. In Iceland there is a emphasis on equality, but at the same time each one does his share. Such mutual trust is essential to the cohesion and sense of security that has characterized the land. - There was a lot of talk here earlier today, the importance of political trust. Even if foreigners are welcome to Iceland, it is crucial that they become part of the community. This will happen only if they have the will to do so for themselves. When people move to the country without adjusting to their community, they reduce their sense of cohesion. Today, import and shelter not only creates problems for Iceland but also contributes to violent and life - threatening injustices in which dismayed human halls profit greatly from the misfortunes of others. In the past three years, more than 10,000 people, including many children, have drowned in the Mediterranean Sea trying to reach Europe. In the process, there are many more who suffer violence and abuse. Women are forced into prostitution, families in their homeland are oppressed, and people are sold into slavery. At the same time, the Western countries have neglected refugees who are in great need. The environment has not been cared for as it should. During the past four years, Europe has spent considerable more money in the processing of hospice applications for European countries, although a large part of them turns out to be people who are not entitled to a refuge in Europe. Madam President. I see that I can't even cover the opening of this talk, but I will continue to follow, asking you to register me again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u156	Madam President. I participated in the discussions here as the head of the committee opinion, recommended yesterday, and gave some warnings about the bill. First, I'd like a few minutes - and I'd say that in answer to me by working personality information. I'm really interested in this empty collection of character information on people in this country, that there is no way to do anything except by e-mail or social security number, unless both are. If I may, with the permission of the president, only read from the paper with the bill, it says here: It is important that the publication of the Multicultural Network for Information and Media is clearly stated so that the Agency can perform its legal functions, both in the assistance of refugees but also in order to provide counsel and instruction to local communities. As an example of such information, basic information is available on an individual, including on education, family living, previous employment and health information relevant to the needs of the service. To ensure that the Agency can meet the needs of the individual services, the Agency also needs to be able to work with sensitive personal information and personal information that may be considered of a sensitive nature, is this not the same thing, Mrs. President? - Even. information on the reasons why individuals are protected, about trauma, ethnic background, and health. I resisted it with trauma. It's far from me, Madam President, that I'm seeing something to keep in the flash. What I'm simply saying is, isn't this something that is common to all people who come here in business like this? Is it not more likely that this applies to all or all of the people who are looking for international protection or are responsible for this bill, that they need treatment of these traumatic events? That leads me to the next thing. Yes, it is beautiful to discern the need for service. Then I thought that in recent years there have been many settlements around the country that have taken in refugees and done well, Madam President. But in view of this kind of service offered in the country, how could these rural communities be able to do this? Is it really the thought of this that people who come here to live, including On the basis of this bill, will it simply pile up around the capital area? Is this in the spirit of distributing the stress or contributing to the diversity of where these people settle down? I feel that something doesn't work out here, and I think it's important to just pay attention. Once again, a warning against the impenetrable collection of personal information, I'm not talking about sensitive personal data. In addition: Will these things be in the end? I don't know. I could naturally say that the others and these health problems, if I was going to live in another country, that there were no medical records then to confirm. There's one thing. I'm not going to say anything against anyone, I'm just pointing this out. I can't come up here any other way than thank you. The councilmen of Ólason and Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson, son of Gunnul, evoking such a fountain of wisdom upon us, though I have been with them for a while and have learned many things. Perhaps if one of them would want to deepen my knowledge further: Is it the picture they paint in their discussion of this issue that is becoming part of some page of the entire sale brochure of refugees, such as the Mediterranean? I just want to get it better. Madam President. Yesterday, I also spoke up about the cost of the bill. With the permission of a president, I would like to reiterate my concern that this is not expected. I think it's important that cases involving the high Council get careful cost analysis. Although I'm a rookie at the council, and not with long experience, I've been watching the Senate for a long time, watching the subject, giving reviews, and all of this. It must have seemed to be missing sometimes. I feel that this is the case, that there is reason to believe that cost will be greater than the bill assumes. Madam President. I'm used to short wording. I see that I have enough time left for this talk, but I'll be able to come back if I feel the need to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u157	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Erna Bjarnadóttir's daughter for an excellent speech, and although the opposite was not formal, there was a speculation. A senator is concerned with whether the bill, if it accepts its status, is likely to increase the attendance of people who are forced to exploit Iceland in particular as their destination in the indiscretions of what such people are doing. If we look at the terms of the bill mentioned here, it is actually described in the non-computed synopsis proposal, which was distributed here at the Council of April 1, 2000. is absolutely obvious that what is in this context called the maulfector, the attraction, is increasing. It will increase with this bill approved. As stated in the synopsis proposal, which has not yet been measured, comparing the situation of those who come here on the basis of the cry - inspiring system and then all those who come on their own roads in one way or another, by permission of the president: While there have been several differences in service to these two groups, the basic difference is that the state's budget pays the employee expenses of its members because of the services they perform during the first year rather than because of those who come on its own, and due to local communities providing rented rooms in terms of capitalist people, while others need to find housing for themselves. Just this point that is written here and I define--it's just a text I read from the council concluded by the same minister and put forth the case we're discussing closely related material, and, of course, ridiculous to be discussing this order in this order of the council--is evidently meant to increase the pressure on the proliferation of applications here and especially for those who force people to make money money, as shown in yesterday's discussion; an example such as this. paritaprevir The Sigmundur Davíð son of Gunnlaugsson, who took from Finland, did not understand anything about the rapid increase of tens of thousands of applications. I remember that it was between 40,000 and 60,000 applications, which were more than normal. The Finns could not figure out what caused it, but it became clear that some small change had been made in the system that the refugee system worked inside which had caused the failure of people to be forced by money fraud, to run a flow that had previously gone to Belgium, if I remember correctly, to Finland, and to take advantage of the gap that had been formed by this small change that no one thought was about, to agree with the bill, that had any decisive effect. This would make me feel much more specific about such an effect, what I listed here from the synonym, which will probably be recommended as soon as this case is forced through. The answer to the question or speculations at the right time. paritaprevir Erna Bjarnadóttir rolled up here is, unfortunately, yes. I think the bill as it is, is going to increase this haulkattor as it is called, the attraction. I realize that there is a chance, considering that there is hardly any member of the board, with members of Congress at least Some who, swallowing the vomit, agree with this and hoping that they will get the better out of a discussion on this subject. But in any case, I want members of the administration party, especially the Independence Party and the High Priests, to be taken into the position to accept this with their open eyes, conscious of the actual cost of these events. [[The president calls.]] While it may be difficult to evaluate the secondary effects, moving groups of service groups into groups is easy to reach that cost. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. President of putting me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u158	Madam President. I had started going over the entrance to the dance company policy in the affairs of the trustees, their solution to the big subject I've gone over here in previous talks. What I did was to translate this introduction into Icelandic, Congress, and then install the word Iceland in which Denmark is spoken in the text, thus making it more accessible in Icelandic political talk. I can't quite remember where I was reading. I think it's the easiest thing to start at the beginning, but let's start right now, so hopefully I'll get through the entrance of the brief period of time assigned to me in this speech. Under the heading The main policy says: We have to decide for ourselves how many immigrants we accept. We can't now. There must be a climax to a number of refugees and to bring about a fairer, humanitarian, and pleasure - seeking system. There shouldn't be any way to find a quick home in Iceland. We will, however, continue to welcome intimidation. Iceland is a small country that has built a better welfare community than any other country. In Iceland there is a emphasis on equality, but at the same time each one does his share. Such mutual trust is essential to the cohesion and sense of security that has characterized the land. Although foreigners are welcome to Iceland, it is crucial that they become part of the community. This will happen only if they have the will to do so for themselves. When people move to the country without adjusting to their community, they reduce their sense of cohesion. Today, import and shelter not only creates problems for Iceland but also contributes to violent and life - threatening injustices in which dismayed human halls profit greatly from the misfortunes of others. In the past three years, more than 10,000 people, including children, have drowned in the Mediterranean Sea trying to reach Europe. In the process, there are many more who suffer violence and abuse. Women are forced into prostitution, families in their homeland are oppressed, and people are enslaved. At the same time, the Western countries have neglected refugees who are in great need. The environment has not been cared for as it should. In the past four years, Europe has spent significantly more money in the processing of hospice applications for European countries, although much of them turns out to be people who are not entitled to a refuge in Europe. With the present system, we are neglecting our obligation to fellow humans. - This is a key point in this statement of co-counsels, Madam President. - With our present system, we are neglecting our obligation to other people. We have a comprehensive program, both for Iceland's and for the rest of the world, a plan that will meet total international emissions, a program that can become a role model to other European countries, especially because it is based on the right of each country to decide how many immigrants will respond. Each country is expected to accept only the number of refugees that can adapt to each individual community. As a community, we've believed too long that if only those who come here learn the language and get a job they'll share our values, too. Happily, many do. Sadly, though, there are also many who favor ideologies that oppose our democracy and our social values. The plan includes a way out of the current situation, a condition in which each operation in one country leads to increased maintenance in neighboring countries and countries striving to be the least attractive place for refugees to find safety. We are willing to work with other countries to improve systems. The management of trust attendance should be carried out only in safe countries outside Europe and influx within Europe to take into account the UN's strategy for hostilities. [[The president calls.]] That was the entrance, Madam President. [[The president calls.]] Next time, I'm going to kill some of the principles of policy myself and ask you to register me again on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u159	Madam President. I took a little watch in connection with a talk. paritaprevir Erna Bjarnadóttir, but in my last speech, I was trying to figure out what was happening to this system, which seems to be the least possible connection between any member of the board and the minister of all people. In this context, I think we need to try to figure out the overall picture and how the government groups work together or not, as well as their policy and position. The situation in Ukraine as a result of Russian invasion has surfaced the situation that has been sustained for a long time in the affairs of the trustees and the reading of the system in this country and, indeed, throughout Europe. A financial minister, as a review, responded to the inquiry of the Middle Party's chairman. paritaprevir Sigmundur's crew, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, recently since it would be unacceptable that there were still several hundred people in Iceland who had already received material treatment for their materialistic application for protection that would have led to a negative response. People who were not entitled to protection in Iceland, this few hundred people, refused to leave the country and could not be deported by police because they refused to take a sample of Covid-19 that at that time was the prerequisite for sending the person to the European Union, where he had already received international protection. I have not yet seen if this Covid-19 rule is still relevant, but the secretary of finance informed there that just keeping this number of people up under these circumstances cost over a billion dollars a year, more than 1,000 million because of candidates for international protection that had been rejected and was not entitled to international protection on the land. But if we ever look at what the government has done in this, this way to see how sound and image are being combined in these different categories, then the Justice Minister has now proclaimed a third class to change the order so that those who already have international protection in another European state will not be protected in Iceland, should return to the state where they have the protection. It has not yet been recommended, it is on the program now, and surely it must be surprising that this case of the Independence Party, which has been recommended several times, is subject to the fate of not being discussed while this system project appears to be in its top priority. Whether it is the Minister of the Future Party or Ministers of the Left Motion of Green, it should always be presented first, even though the Hebrew series of parts told you that it was reasonable to propose a body of Congress that was distributed here April 1st, on the Management Plan for Foreign Affairs of the European Union for the 2022 females, to be first in line. The highest language has not yet been measured. The Court's office of Justice and the Governing Body will likely explain the late discussion, since the matter has been planned for a few days but the highest. The Minister of Justice is not allowed to discuss this. While the members of the Independence Party proclaim a third campaign to change the foreigners to make the system more efficient and to meet obvious challenges, such as the one described above, the minister of the left movement offers a non-supervising green offer and puts up a bill that is designed to increase the number of applications for international protection in this country. That's what we're talking about today and yesterday. The different ways in which the administrations of the administrations are here at the council suggests that the Independence Party had one or another just given up, decided to call it good. The lack of confidence is complete. It is not even an attempt to bring up your own matters here at the council, matters that could possibly be of value to the point of turning toward a largely temporary refugee population from Ukraine. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I wish to be put back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u160	Madam President. Now it has been reported that there has been an agreement on how this case will continue to be resolved, i.e. that there are committees and specific points to consider. That, of course, is a positive one. But the trouble with this is that I will not have time to cross a dance course in the affairs of the trustees in the matter as thoroughly as I had thought of and more could possibly fall between a ship and a dock in view of the need to limit speech time. But I'm going to try to take advantage of the time I still have in place to review this Danish course very briefly. I'd been through the entrance, but I'm going to mention a few main points of policy and maybe we can talk about it on the third. The point. Part of this policy is to establish a reception station outside Europe. There, the Danish government, the current government, had already spoken to governments in several countries. One of the countries is Rwandan, who reported a few days ago that the British government made a deal with Rwanda regarding a welcome station in that country for those who flee France to seek refuge in Britain. Remarkably interesting to watch for any Danish government involved, but they had encouraged other European countries to follow their course and to join in. setting up such reception stations. This policy also shows that no matter how many non - Western foreigners can settle in Denmark - with even less western western sources, they are likely to be referring to countries outside the European Economic Area and other countries that have special agreements with Denmark to stay there. There is also a fairly detailed plan to control the number of refugees who turn to Denmark. There are strict requirements for family unity. For this reason, there are various reasons I had planned to trace them, but I don't have time in the light of a new agreement. There is a plan to send more inmates home and set up a special police team for that purpose. Denmark will eliminate countries that do not receive people, i.e. People who are sent to their homes, development aids. There will be an increase in border control and the Schngeren meetings will be revised as each state controls its own borders. This is naturally a very fundamental factor in all, border surveillance, and it's kind of a shame that I don't have time to cover it thoroughly, because there are many things I had planned to say in a discussion about it. But this is true of them, as they put it, while the EU is not standing on the outer border - think Danish kids should write it into policy. But of course it's true, we've seen it in the past few years. Yes, there will be rules for immigrants to do their part before they get the right thing - another big thing that could have been discussed here for a long time if the time had come. The Danish Cats also require that refugees with temporary residence contribute to the community and still return to their homes when circumstances in their country allow. Although it is a temporary residence, it is still necessary to contribute to the community. I've just mentioned a few points from this vast policy, which is now more pages. I had been looking forward to this all over and discussing each item separately. But you can't always have everything the way you want, and there's an agreement here on how this case will be won.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u161	Madam President. It'll probably be my last talk to the 2nd. This and I just want to celebrate the fact that the matter has been brought into harmony with the council that there is now a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. where there will be an analysis of specific details and facts that I have felt were very lacking in the data of this case, a paper with the bill, and what has been reported from the highest level. Ministers, both in advance and in answer, and in fact with the counsellers who brought the matter into the previous councils. We in the Middle East have requested that the committee be involved in the cost estimate of a joint host of refugees on a committee between 2 and 3. so that the matter will be discussed here after the end of a break due to rural elections after this analysis work has taken place. Whether it comes to a country on its own, by the government or by family unity, it is requested that the cost be evaluated. In particular, this will be considered as a result of the evaluation of individuals who are assigned to a, b, c, and e in Article 2. Council of Social and Employment Affairs on Change of Foreign Affairs Act, No. 16/2012, which is at the Council Hall of 38, 271th, issue - the legal rights outlined in III. section of the European Commission's guidelines for receiving and assisting groups of refugees, published on May 10, 2013, with special emphasis on Article 15. The guidelines that ensure greater rights than those guaranteed by the judicial Regulation for foreigners, No. 540/2017 for the groups listed above, as above. We at the Middle East request a cost estimate based on the number of people who will enjoy increased rights on the basis of a uniform service, on the basis of those who have already received protection and rights within the age of 15. The direction of the refugee committee frames and the annual costs compared to the average number of the last three years will be given the same number of protection every year as in the three years, taking into account the ratio between eaters and those who follow other routes during that period. At the same time, you will request information on the average total cost for each unrepeated application. So we wish that the matter will go to a committee between discussions after the vote is concluded tomorrow. I have to state to my point that I think this is a pretty good solution to the case because my main criticism has been able to establish that we members of the Parliament are advised to vote on this matter without sufficient information about the cost to which it might lead. I think it's a great improvement, and it's a model for all members of Congress to agree with this procedure, and I hope this will enable us at the time of the 3rd. The matter of discussing it from fuller facts than the members of Congress were offered here in the report and the text of the bill itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u162	Madam President. This will be my last discussion of this case here in 2nd. In view of the agreement that was made and achieved. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason introduced here earlier. In this discussion, I have endeavored to draw out the scope of the relevant subject and its nature and to reflect on the solutions that work with regard to the actual facts. It is similar with so many of the larger political issues that they come in way too much from foam and superficial human beings, rather than from facts that can sometimes be harder to possess. Indeed, there are many facts in this series of subjects that are difficult to deal with. It is to make sense, as I have traced here in a few speeches, that the magnitude of this subject will only increase in years to come. Although it is generally more peaceful in the world than was most in the 20th century, of course, with the exception we know, the flow of refugees has increased greatly, and despite the fact that world prosperity is far greater than it has ever been in previous centuries, it will also contribute to the increased flow of refugees. Thus, it is not that at times it is claimed that poverty is increasing that causes more energy. No, there's more prosperity and more communication and transportation, which fosters increased flow. Then, Madam President, I went to a few talks over population development and read up statistics that I assume many were interested, at least to me, when I was looking at this. But all of this is one thing to remind us that this is a lawsuit requiring a set of priorities that we can help those who need the help most and that most of them are people because it is unrealistic to approach these things out of the frescoes and direction that you have heard thrown away in the discussion now and in the past, that they should simply receive all those who want to move to Western countries, Iceland or other countries, in search of a better option. This is not realistic, and we must realize that, at least governments in other parts of the North, especially Denmark, have come to realize this, and the Danish socialists have proposed a policy contrary to what Iceland's government suggests by this bill we've been discussing here. How important it is, then, that we use the time now given by the committee and then by Leviticus! In order to discuss the real content of the matter and the importance of making changes. Going in the opposite direction with the rest of the North countries today will continue to add to the imbalance we already see, with nine times as many in Iceland as in 2020, as in Denmark, tens of nine times as many. This has become the difference, but it is the result of the direction the Icelandic government has presented, the message it has sent from itself, and, of course, also the result of the message that has come from the Danish government. So if they're still going to add to that by going in the opposite direction with Dani, we may not be able to handle it. This has become especially urgent right now that we will need and will accept a large number of refugees from Ukraine but like the highest. The Minister of Justice pointed out that soon after the beginning of the war, the system has been blocked. The problems of the retreat system here in Iceland have blocked the system, and this has made it more difficult for us to cope with this new and massive emergency situation, a state far more closely with which the United Nations covenant for the withdrawal of refugees was designed to cope than with the modern - day movement of travelers around the world. [[The president calls.]] Madam President. I know time's up. I would have liked to say other things, but for now I'm saying good things. I'll see you in the 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u163	Madam President. I say here on behalf of what? General Education Committee for Committee to Residents on bill to legalize artists' Prize legislation, No. 57/2009. The bill suggests a temporary increase in the number of artists'assigned jobs by the year 2022 from 1,600, as outlined in Article 5. The law, 1800... divided between stage artists and musicians. The committee discussed the matter and attended a guest meeting, and this is reported in a committee study, and the committee's opinion is open. The key elements of the bill depend on a temporary increase in the combined artistic team by 2022, as noted earlier. Then the distribution of part of the budget is bound to the requirement that young artists under 35 years of age benefit. These are support measures in the interests of the economy because of the negative effects of the pandemic crown virus. Hv. A global and educational committee suggests minor legal modifications that do not require any particular consideration. On the front, a respected platform. The General and Education Committee for the approval of the bill with the minor changes proposed in the pan-European region.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u164	Madam President. I'm just here for this brief speech to celebrate. Of course, this is not a big step, but it is an important step. They're talking about, like, cot. paritaprevir Lilja Sigurgeirsdóttir Sigrgeirsdóttir mentioned, an increase from 1,600 to 1,800 values, must only be said, before 2022. That's about a 15% increase. It is especially suggested that young people under the age of 35, who are many, perhaps not all, take their first steps on the art course. Of course, even if the values of a list are very little spoken of here in this hall, they are a mirror of the day, and they often contain important social criticism. These are the most important forms of employment, but most of all, who are now forgotten to mention, are very important in themselves. Happily, the time has long passed when all humans will be content with just food, clothing, and shelter. Of course, we also need nourishment for the soul and the art and culture, and our participation in them has become as important as breathing. The task ahead is to make it possible for all, children, adolescents, and adults to enjoy it without suffering economic hardship. Culture and art were among the worst cases of the code, and late last year a very interesting report showed that this was a dark way of evaporating the article, possibly lasting. This disfellowshipping seemed to be the worst injury to women, which, of course, is fatal. Of course, this is a serious thing because it was the government's primary project, and for the last two years, all classes agreed on in the Covid operation to put people and businesses through the scrap, this temporary scrap, as they said, until the plague went on. It is very important that jobs, especially culture and art, do not suffer lasting damage, that the branches do not suffer lasting damage. Of course, it is especially important for those who work in the articles, but it is also very important to our community because they are so valuable to us. Although the case we are discussing today is under the pretext of protesting, it is my opinion that we are going to be even more handsome in strengthening these articles and that we need to do it permanently, not as temporary resources. Our society is sailing into a most exciting yet exciting society scene. In this future development, it is often said that one of the key elements and key attributes that we must possess and that most of us must possess are expected to pursue a balanced life in the future. Of course, art and culture are important. So I'm happy about this, but I hope that right now we're going to look around to increase the strength of culture and art and make it permanent.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u165	A respectable president. I agree with every word that came out of speech. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson and thank you for history from nightfall. paritaprevir Lilja Rannveig Sigurgeirsdóttir. This bill includes a temporary increase in the combined number of artists'jobs in the current year, from 1,600 months to 1,800 months' wages that are divided between stage artists and musicians. When the bill first came in from the Ministry of Culture and Business, it was defective in that way so that there was a huge discrepancies between what was presented in the report and what is presented in the bill. According to the report, the bill was to give special support to young artists among musicians and stagers, with the permission of a president, the number of young artists who are often taking their first steps after study or starting their career. In fact, the bill text encouraged younger musicians to run 50 monthly wages in 2022, neither more nor fewer. However, there is evidence that, already this year, the 50 monthly allowances have been assigned to this age group. This was done in January. It does not take much research to reveal it, it is only possible to look up the social security number of those who received distribution. In this way the bill's terms for at least Fifty months of total employment wage should already be met by young musicians. As a result, the extra months of life for musicians intended for this bill are the means by which musicians may go to musicians completely independent of their age. That's it. This is clearly incompatible with declarations that with the extra effort, young musicians are being especially supported. The unchanged bill could, in effect, have led the remaining 150 months to the 35 - year - old and older. V.E.G. When she spoke for it a few weeks ago, the minister of culture and commerce was very pleased with the question raised here at the council Hall. But I'm glad that the General and Education Committee has solved this and suggested a change that leaves no doubt that this is a minimum of a month, not a fixed month's number. It is important to increase the number of artists'jobs. Actually, I would like to increase the number of them permanently, but not just temporarily, but it's still very basic that we in the United States support. As for the musicians, I'd like to point out that this bill, whether we refer to the original Minister's bill or the bill with the proposed changes to the General and Education Committee, is not to be specifically supported by young musicians, as it is claimed. The minimum of 50 jobs a month does not guarantee that, for 50 labor months have already been granted to musicians under 35 years of age this year. This bill is also taking a different route than it was, for example. presented on a board of directors sleep with a pore and pug on January 25. It showed, by permission of the President: In addition to the recent distribution of funds to musicians in 2022, 150 months' wages are guaranteed. For this reason, the distribution of 50 monthly amounts to the requirement for young musicians under 35 years of age to benefit from them. Thus, it was announced that 50 monthly wages of the additional intervention would be for young musicians, but with the proposed changes, it is only 50 months' total monthly wage, which actually does not change anything this year. Will it change someone next year? No, because this bill does not involve any lasting change in this regard. It's only about 2022. So I don't know exactly what it is, that requirement for young people, maybe it's just something symbolic or some kind of advertising, anyway, that requirement won't really change anything. Yet, there is another point in a report. This deviation from the government's plans presented in January of a management sleep is not ambiguous or underlined in the report, and that doesn't agree with the views of careful legalization, I must say. Another thing I'd like to consider is the development of this additional distribution. I miss a little bit about the fact that in this bill, there is no proper formula for distribution committees on how to obtain new applications from the one already paid for the main intervention in January. There are questions such as whether the additional support will be directly applied to those who have not received a salary this year or have those who have already received a job salary in 2022 exactly the same claim for future secondary activities as those who did not receive employment permit in January? If not, are you looking to see if candidates have already received distribution? Looks like it's on the bill. There's nothing on this. Does it not matter whether candidates are applying for pay to do the same job they were paid in January to work on or if they are applying for a new job? If they are applying for a new job, do the intervention committees need to evaluate the interaction of these two applications, work plans and costs and whether you can work both at the same time? I don't have an answer to this, but I'm just pointing out that this bill doesn't take any position on this one, but, so the intervention committees are actually leaving with this assignment in their arms without a clear formula to work out from the law on this. I'm not gonna have this any further. Most of all, I wanted to come up here to celebrate this and to express the tremendous support that artist work months have grown. But I'd also like to call attention to the government's mismanagement in this case. I don't think it's necessary. It's a good thing to increase your salary months, and you don't have to look at it with some kind of nonsense like when the bill was introduced. Otherwise, I strongly support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u166	A respectable president. Thank you for the ones here. Maybe I'd like to shed some light on it as a dog. paritaprevir Jóhann Páll Jóhannsson was wondering. Before I do, it's time to review that in the artist's wage, you will review a number of artists - this is a monthly wage - every five years. I participated in the work that took place in 2009, first in the time of the Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, then the minister of education, and later in the advanced minister of education of the time, the daughter of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. Ragnarsson led them to work, later to the assistant of Illugi Gunnarsson's son, Minister of Education, in 2013 in 2013,2017. By 2009, these laws, about many months, had not been revised since 1991. In fact, 18 years had passed, replaced by a five - year review. I'm going to make what artists sometimes have to do - I'm saying that I've never applied for an artist's prize myself, but many I know have, depending on it as a career. The writer of a book sometimes gets that book transferred to plays, films, or musicals, and is about some kind of innovation, where one can lead to another. I've said it before, and I'm going to repeat it to those who have not heard: Iceland has become the most known of anything but intellectuals since Snorri and Laxness, of Björks, Sigrroasum and Kareoum, and all that. If Iceland has done very well in something, it's in its mindwork in the spirit of duplicits that have spread our propaganda in many parts of the world. In February another 450 million were added to this group of subjects, some of which have been reported to be secondary to difficult times. This means that as soon as the council can allow a future discussion and a release, the composers get 150 million. So the musicians and stage artists who received disclosures of some 450 million dollars after two years of procreation have waited a long time. Because of the Council's rhythm, this has not been accomplished, but a minister promised this morning that it would soon be over the two - week break that lies ahead. I know that it has been a very difficult time for people in music and stage arts that have not been allowed to work, and now their field of work is merely cutting back. If we count this joyful number - 13 years after the total pay was increased from 1,200 to 1,600 - this is now $1,800 monthly. This means that there are 150 artists from all sectors, including designers, who can operate as artists who receive strength from the State. I'm convinced that these 150 people are worthy of their day's wages and monthly wages, and then there are the thousands of Icelandic artists who have nothing to disappear on, have no permanent ground, or safety. Most musicians depend on simply going to the highway and staying away from homes and families. They go and get their goods. They fetch their greetings. But it is to be glad that this is now, all those years later, temporary from 1,600 to 1800. So now 150 Icelanders have that salary, and then 150 million more are involved in the authors and probably 150 million more are being spread by the broom rules. I'm not going to reiterate this. I just wanted those who are listening and observing this to realize how few these are actually enjoying. Today, 150 people are working on their arts. For all the other artists, there are 555 months left behind. But this is good news in itself. I hope this five-year review period, in view of all reports of revision and increase of these wages, is revised as well as 1,800 may well be 2,000, a small increase may be observed in this group of 150 people. But I am grateful that this bill and these changes are not for the better. I thank the committee who has been doing this and who has come to agree that this will be accomplished. I hope the Senate will not delay the progress and payment of the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u167	A respectable president. I come up here to celebrate the fulfillment of this matter. I think it is only natural for us to be with this group of people who have suffered the worst in this epidemic that has happened to us, not just for a short time, but for many years. It is a group whose employment was removed and has not been able to earn any of the things they had done before, so it is just very positive. It is, of course, classified as the available resistance grants and has been present ever since the outbreak, acquitted and sacred service has been made available to support the groups in this epidemic. It is only a pleasure to see that these funds, which, of course, can be considered as to whether they are adequate or not, are about to begin now, if the council agrees with this, groups that need this. This has been a good review of how it works; it goes through a pay fund, goes to a music fund, goes to a music store, goes to a music export fund, audiograph fund, UNON, it's being carried out by innovation and export, it's about to be putting money in a music center. All of this matters. Then you will be looking at the world list and putting money on the set list. It is a prerogative for those who will enjoy this system of things. I'd like to mention only a review that came from the U.S. l.A. Alliance of April 5, where this plan is celebrated. But it also points out that this has been discussed since the fall, and when this can be realized, May will have arrived. Then these funds will probably be placed in proper places and then assigned. So it's all appearances that this resource will take a year to become a reality, i.e. from its discussion in the autumn until its fulfillment. You feel that it is not possible to cope more quickly with the problems we faced, that we have a group that had to wait for it to work for a whole year. I think it's way too long. I myself know private and personal individuals who have nearly gone bankrupt in this situation because they fell between their ships and their docks and did not have the sustenance they had, not because they did not try to win, but because their work was taken away. Of course, as a community, we have the responsibility to stand with such groups when they are in such a position that they have no control over. Of course, we are happy that this is happening, and I too want to celebrate it. O.r., the earmarks are being used to strengthen young people. I hope this will be future, that we're going to break this thing down or connect it like that. Young people. It is often said to young people: Why don't you just come and do this for free because it's such an advertisement? Such is often the position of young people on this market list - they are being used without charge. However, at least one of these groups is being met by the earmarks that will flow directly to them. I've also talked about that, even though we have such resources to support and support a particular group, we're not there yet. I have been working on the labour market, after I entered the council, from New Year's Eve. In the last of the budgets, these measures were actually put down, but they are being reinvented one by one. Since the situation had not yet been completed, Covid has been very serious and has been so despite the fact that the sun has now begun to shine and people can take care of themselves. But after that period, there are just a lot of people who can't stand up. I've felt that things were going late and bad, and I've also felt as if we couldn't control all the groups. There are a lot of people who are associated with art, although they are not defined as mere artists. Many have been badly affected, and they have not been able to access the options we have been taking. We need to keep our ears open, and we need to listen, and we need to monitor those who have not been released and try to meet them in some way. But in other respects, I'm just glad that this is becoming reality, one of the many things those groups really needed. I hope, as they have said before, this will be permanent, not preliminary, and hopefully we can just continue to improve. A world without lists is a poor world, and it is only in our nature to create and create, whether it is art, singing, dancing, or whatever. We need this, our art nourishes us, and we would be like a tree if the art was not used.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u168	President. The production of artists to Icelandic culture is invaluable. Art, art, music, art, music, music, poetry, dancing, and other articles that could be listed for a long time are important in our culture, and especially in the following pandemic. It is very important to be supportive of artists, not just because of the effects of a pandemic, but because of a longer - term feature of support to artists. The number of artists needs to be increased and really supported by the artists of the country. It's about time we stopped paying artistic wages like they're drunk. Investment in art is not only an investment in priceless cultural resources but also an investment that gives money into the Kingdom box. The artist's working environment lacks any sense of leadership and security. The Icelandic people are exceptionally rich in talented, educated artists who have to fight to work at what they drink and have educated themselves in spite of many possible investments in the creation of these individuals. It's fine that, at last, artists will be able to compensate for the loss of money and equipment caused by the crown virus epidemic. But it may be necessary to think further and look at more ambitious ways to multiply the creations taking place here on the land. So lucky are the people of the land to have the privilege of having a number of amazingly talented artists who make the lives of others in one way or another more meaningful in their lives. Being together, being beautiful, and feeling are a few words that describe what the artists give to the rest of us. I just want to be happy that this bill is on and I'm rooting for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u169	A respectable president. It may be right to point out, because it was discussed about the sophisticators here, that this bill is not about musicians and no bill from a cultural and business minister who has been introduced into the council. So it is not that if we want to call it a filibuster, it is some sort of language code that stands in the way. [[Up front.]] - That's not the bill we're talking about. [[Up front.]] - Yeah, yeah, it's in the budget and stuff. This is the only bill that's come from the highest level. Minister on these subjects. Actually, this could have happened a lot earlier, and we should keep in mind that it is the administrative object that follows the program right here in this hall. Otherwise, in my second speech, I wanted to point to an interesting context. Often, when it comes to artists'wages, it is such that society becomes a big part of it. At least it's slippery, and it's somehow big news, that this one or the other gets an artist's salary, and the media make an estimate of the amount, etc. In recent years, it seems to me that there have been a total of 600 to700 million who have been joined by this group. That's a bit familiar. We've been talking a lot about sales at Iceland Bank and a fee that several sales advisers got for several hours working one night in March or February, whenever that was, for calling the other and this one in their company. This has certainly brought attention to the community. That is exactly the same amount - 700 million, which these fine sales advisers, who are now studying at the F.S.A., received for their share - and dozens or hundreds of artists now, thanks to this excellent bill. I like to keep the context of things to the proper place. This money is well spent. Let us continue and do even better next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2022-04-28.u170	Madam President. I come up here to thank the members of the Parliament for the comments that have been made on this bill because this is a very important matter. This is important for young people, this is important for Icelandic culture, and this is very important for those who have had problems with a pandemic of crown virus. The comments that have been made here are very numerous and will continue to be used. I'll take them to me and get them on. I want to thank you for making those comments. Icelandic art is important. So this is an enormously important case.
