ParlaMint-DK_20220128100006	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 77 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the criminalisation of gross abuse of the dependency relationship between religious leaders and people from the congregation). Eva Flyvholm (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 78 (Proposal for a parliamentary decision to recall the Danish military contributions to the Operation Barkhane in Mali and the Sahel region). Carl Valentin (SF) and Signe Munk (SF): Request no. F 30 (What will the government wear off in view of the fact that the Climate Council has made a number of concrete recommendations on how to promote a more climate-friendly diet with less meat, and at the same time has concluded that a change in Danes diet towards the new dietary councils could bring significant benefits to the climate?). The titles of the cases notified will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk. above). On 26 January 2022, the Epidemic Committee issued: Report on the repeal of the Order on the Categorisation of Covid-19 as a Society Critical Disease. 9). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220128100110	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 1 February 2022. First of all, to justify the question, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the questions, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128100133	Thank you. In December 2021, the new Citizenship Survey from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration shows that the greatest support for religious specialisms, for example: The possibility of praying during working hours is found among Muslims who have been raised in Denmark. Muslims born in Denmark or who have come here as children want religious speciality more than Muslims who have come to Denmark after the age of 12. 51 per cent. of those polled from the MENAPT countries, who are 30 years of age or older, believe that it is not right for their daughter to have sex before marriage. The same applies to 2%. by the personal group from Denmark and 17 per cent. by other persons from non-western countries. MENAPT countries are countries in the Middle East and North Africa as well as Afghanistan, Pakistan and Turkey, and it is a group of countries that quite precisely pinpoint the problems of immigration, because these are the countries from which many immigrants have arrived and because the citizens of those countries are almost all Muslims. Other figures from the survey show 56 per cent. agrees that public employees should be allowed to pray during working hours. 59 per cent. agrees that public institutions must accept different religious rules in relation to food schemes, for example. in nursing homes, day care centres and school cafeteria. 41% agrees that the unemployed should not be able to reject job offers on the basis of their own religious beliefs without having consequences for them. It is hardly surprising that women from the mentioned MEAPT countries, who have been raised in Denmark in particular, are those who want religious speciality in the public sector. The study clearly shows that there are major problems with immigration, especially from Muslim countries. The year 2021 has offered many other cases where immigrants from the MENAPT countries stand out. I look forward to a good debate on the problems and challenges arising from immigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128100343	Thank you for justifying the request. I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128100358	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for calling an important debate. I can start by agreeing with much of what has already been said from the platform. It is our values that bind us together as a society and define who we are as human beings and as a society. That is why the debate is also crucial to have here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and the challenges, as has already been described, are many and too many. Over the past 40 years, there has been a marked change in the composition of the population in Denmark. When I was a child in the 1980s, there were about 50,000 citizens in Denmark with a non-western background. Today there are over half a million. It is thus one in ten citizens of our society. Let me start by saying that many foreigners and also many descendants are doing well in our society. They make a positive contribution in many different ways and at many different levels. Many have embraced the Danish values, live them and believe them and work hard at jobs and in education, but this does not apply to everyone, and the challenges are too many. The prerequisite for successful integration is first and foremost that we do not accept more in Denmark than we can integrate. In this context, let me say that the task of integration is not primarily our task. Integrating is, of course, primarily a task for those who come from outside by taking Denmark to heart and starting to bear Denmark. The effort must be able to keep up with the number that comes here and too many have come here. That is, of course, one of the main explanations for the great challenges of integration. As a society, we must of course help people on the run, but first and foremost we must take care of Denmark. The two things do not have to be opposed to each other, but the current asylum system is not working. Every year thousands of migrants risk their lives on the road to Europe. Since 2014, more than 22,000 refugees and migrants have drowned or disappeared in the Mediterranean Sea. This is a humanitarian disaster. It's children who are women, and it's men, and it happens right in front of us. Among the migrants who then actually come all the way to Europe and apply for asylum, about half of them are denied asylum. These are people who are not entitled to our protection because they do not have a need for protection. That is why they must, of course, be sent home to the country from which they come. We spend a lot of resources on too much resources and we could spend that money on other things that are more important, both at home and, by the way, to help out in the world. That is why it is still important that we work for a fairer and more humane asylum system. When you are in Denmark, there is no freedom of choice in terms of values. Value relativism is, in my view, dangerous to every society. You have to be part of society. You have to want to be part of society and community. I know that I talk a lot about having a job and why it is important in itself, and I repeat it today. Having a job, getting up in the morning, earning one's own money and saving up for one's own old age is the most important thing, and it is, moreover, the most direct way to have the conditions for integration. If you cannot get a job right away, you should, in our view, be of use to your performance. Too many women, primarily with a non-Western background, are at home today and are not an active part of our society. It is not good for them, it is not good for their economy, it is not good for their children, and it is not good for cohesion. That is why we have a desire to replace passive support with a clear working logic. I see it is difficult to get support for the proposal here in the Folketing. I hope that things will change at some point, because it is not least in the current situation that we really, really, really stupid that we have women with a non-Western background who do not go to work and that we, for example, should go to work. In the area of the elderly, there is a shortage of labour. So we should solve two problems at the same time. In addition to being part of the labour market, as I said, the Danish values must be taken into account. There is no free choice in terms of values in Denmark. We must fully and completely agree with the rules of democracy. There must be complete and complete agreement on gender equality. These are some of the most basic values. Today, unfortunately, there are people who refrain from taking part in the public debate because they fear threats, violence or even terror, and that is not without reason. For in recent years we have seen that there are violent individuals and groups in Danish society who do not respect the freedom of expression of other people. This is unacceptable and all self-censorship is dangerous in a society. Everyone in Denmark must be free to express themselves, and it does not matter what the subject is: Muslim drawings, holocaust, lgbt+ questions or other. Not least teachers in Denmark must be able to feel safe, regardless of what they teach, and therefore, as you know, we have invited to negotiations on freedom of expression and self-censorship. Gender equality, between men and women, is one of the most important Danish values. In a number of immigrant environments and religious environments, too many girls and women are fighting for the freedom and rights that the rest of us today take for granted the right to live the life you want, the right to a life without violence and without social control, the right to choose for themselves who to marry and when to have sex, and the freedom to earn your own money and work. This is a lot of girls and women in Denmark who don't have that freedom and those rights, today in the year 2022. That is quite crazy in itself. This is where we, as a society, have to become involved. No one's gonna fight that freedom fight alone. We're gonna fight it together. We must state clearly when religious or cultural peculiarities are used to restrict the freedom or rights of girls and women. And the girls and women who are struggling today with freedom and social control must not stand alone. That is why we have proposed that we should now tackle the forgotten women's struggle. I am glad that Holbæk's mayor has agreed to lead this work. The commission we set up must investigate and point out how we can help girls and women better so that everyone is allowed to decide in their own lives. In the light of any recommendations that may come, of course, we want first of all to strengthen our efforts against honour-related social control, so that as a society we clearly and clearly stand firm on our values and not only stand firm, but also enforce them. When integration fails and it has failed for many places in our society, we run the risk of insecurity taking root, and it has done so in a number of places. Today there are areas in Denmark where groups dominate public spaces and create insecurity by their mere presence. That is unacceptable. The government has therefore focused on a number of initiatives aimed at bringing more security into our everyday lives. That is not all we have been able to get a majority for, unfortunately. And then it's the insecurity that gets to win. Similarly, we are also prepared to use every means available to combat the violent and ruthless crime that we have witnessed in recent months with shootings in the metropolitan area. Values are the most important thing in a society. They must not be bent; I do not recognise any form of value relativism, and I will always be ready as the Prime Minister of the country to take an open fight with the forces that do not want Denmark or our society. This requires that we speak openly and honestly about the challenges. We have not always been good at this in Denmark, but we have improved at that. And now that we speak openly and honestly about the challenges, it is also important that we do not generalise. Because when we discuss immigration policy and when we discuss foreign policy and Danish values, it is often with a tough generalisation both as a starting point and as a conclusion. Just as important it is to distance ourselves from those who do not want Denmark, just as important it is to support and back them up that will our society. I think that the Corona crisis has shown us a great deal, and it has been a mirror in our society from the fact that in some places in the immigrant environment we have had problems in enforcing restrictions and getting support for it, that on the other hand it would have been difficult to get through this crisis if it were not for all those with different foreign backgrounds who have vaccinated and grafted and otherwise supported that we have come through the crisis. In this way, every problem will often have two sides. When we do things, we must be honest with each other and say that too many people have come here in too short a time for integration to be successful. And the major problems we see in parts of Denmark today, with too much crime, too much social control, too much religious fanaticism and too much turning against Denmark are not only a problem for the people who live in those areas and are directly affected by it; it is a problem for our entire society and therefore also a responsibility for our entire society. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101314	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. It is now possible for the rapporteurs to make one brief comment, and a number of rapporteurs have asked for this. First, it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101325	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer and for your self-knowledge. After all, the self-awareness I have experienced sometimes when I have raised this debate, and it's a good thing that the Prime Minister is doing, certainly, because it's better late than never, as long as it's not too late. I just have a few questions, especially when it comes to wanting Denmark. It has become such a modern comment to say, but I fully agree with it. I do not need the Prime Minister to follow up on what is happening around the municipalities. I know, of course, that the party members around the municipalities, the Prime Minister and many other parties, unfortunately, do not have the same attitude in relation to scarves in public spaces, in relation to bathrooms, in relation to swimming, men and women etc. When are we going to get this far so that we can say from here that it is enough, so we are living up to what the Prime Minister has just said? You have to take Denmark into account, but you do not do so when there is positive discrimination. Then there is one other thing that I think is very interesting, and it is the women that are all talking about, and it is all about this social control and so on, and one is cheering, and I think we should do this with good reason, about the fact that very many immigrant women receive high education. But it stops when they get married. I assume the Prime Minister has seen it. The family's gonna tie up, and the jobs are gonna stop. So far, so good, but not good enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101445	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101447	Now I was actually visiting one of the municipalities in the country yesterday, Herlev Municipality, and visiting a large care centre to discuss the policy of the elderly, and then you are always through such different elements. And the first visit I have is on the second floor of the care center, and there is a group of older citizens in our society, and we have a good conversation, and then there are three employees, one with original Danish roots, and then there is a sister couple who have come from outside and who have been sosusus through really, very many years and cared for their work and are incredibly likable at this care center, and that just tells us how many nuances there are in the discussion. Sex-separated swimming lessons to just get to grips with it are not positive discrimination in my eyes, but it is, of course, to be subjected to a wrong view of girls and boys and men and women, and I think it is one of the best things in Danish society that boys and girls have gymnastics together. Of course we do, of course we swim together, because if you do not want to, what is it really an expression of? Then it is an expression of the sexualisation of our children, and I will not, under any circumstances, be involved in that. So gender-separated swimming education is not positive discrimination, but it is to recognise a view of boys and girls and men and women, which I am fundamentally opposed to and which does not have at home in Denmark in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101607	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101610	Thanks to the Prime Minister for this debate we also think very, very important, and I think Mette Frederiksen is really, really good at focusing on the problems, but not at solving them. Mette Frederiksen himself said that one in five... it is the Prime Minister). I'm sorry, Prime Minister. I'll start again. Thank you, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has put a great deal of emphasis on this problem and among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I can supplement this with fresh figures from the Foreign Minister that more than one in five from Somalia and Iraq, who have been granted permanent residence, subsequently commit crime. However, when I ask the Foreign Minister whether we can now have some new negotiations on the rules of permanent residence, because there are so many people with a non-western background who commit crime after and before they have been permanently resident, I am told that the rules of permanent residence are as good as they are. Does the Prime Minister really believe that it is okay to say that we have these problems of crime and non-western backgrounds, but that at the same time we will not call for negotiations to tighten up the rules of permanent residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101720	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101722	After all, we have had negotiations on citizenship during this parliamentary term and during this government and I think that a good agreement has been reached, and we have been criticised for this. But I think it is right to do so, and my basic view is that if you commit serious crime and are foreign, you should not be able to stay in Denmark as a starting point. That is my basic position. Then, in various ways, we are also subject to international obligations that this government respects, and to the government that Mr. Marcus Knuth wants to be a part of, will also respect the same international rules of play. I am not in any doubt about that, and then, within the rules of the game, we have to go as far as we possibly can. However, I believe that we have a common interest in people coming from outside, who do not comply with the rules of the game and commit serious crime, of course as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101811	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101815	Thank you, Prime Minister. Speaking of work that the Prime Minister is very concerned about, we know that these women with a scarf are actually over-represented in terms of higher education, but that studies show that they have to send 60%. More applications to get a job. We know that if you have a foreign-sounding name, you must send additional applications to be considered at all. So that means that what I think is missing from the Prime Minister's speech is also to say: okay, there may be some cultural and some religious obstacles to it, but so there are also structural issues in our society. What will the government and the Prime Minister do to ensure that these women are able to get a job afterwards? Now it has been agreed that an anti-racist action plan will be drawn up, which we in the Free Greens are incredibly happy about. We have if anyone has fought for this plan and then an obvious question to ask: will there be any action on this in the anti-racist action plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101930	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128101932	I mean, the work on it must take its course; I shall not stand here and define that from the platform. I think it is true that there are people with a foreign background who are experiencing different forms of discrimination. I think that is right, and I have also heard examples of the fact that if you change the name, you can suddenly be considered for a job interview. A lot of things can be right at the same time. I also meet people with an immigrant background who say: I have not actually experienced any kind of racism in Danish society myself. I also experience people who say: I have experienced something. So, I think there are many different experiences, and the crucial thing is that where there are structural problems, we must, of course, resolve them. I also think it is important to say that in the labour market that we have right now, where there is a great shortage of labour, it is my impression that the way to get to work has probably not been easier, easier for many, many years, than it is right now. So this is also the time we need to bring in those who are outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102041	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102045	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for a good speech, which we will have the opportunity to discuss a little more here during the day. I would like to continue a little where the Prime Minister left off, namely the lack of labour. We are also in a situation where some people have done exactly what the Prime Minister is saying: you have taken an education. They have embraced the Danish values. They really want to be here and contribute to the Danish labour market, but because they come from Syria, they have been deprived of their residence permits and are now being sent back to Assad's regime. Isn't it a little bit double or a little bit opposite that one says on the one hand that we lack labour and that we want all the labour we can get, and that on the other hand one says to the people who take the Danish values to heart: We remove your residence permit, and then you go back to the dictator from whom you are on the run? I wish it were just something I was making up, but we have seen many examples of Syrian fellow citizens who are in Denmark right now who would like to contribute, but who cannot get a residence permit because our rules are too tight.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102151	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102152	Of course, I have also seen the examples, and I also have to point out calmly that some of the problems we have in Denmark today are of course due to many decades of failed immigration policy, where a refugee almost per year. automatic has become a foreigner, per. It has become one that has become one in Denmark, and the employment rate has not followed. After all, it is not the case that all the refugees who have come from Syria, for example, are at work today. That is not the case. Nor is it the case for the many people who have come here from Somalia that they have all come to work, although some have been here for many years. That is not the case. There is, in fact, exactly one of them. for these two nationalities a very, very low link with the labour market, especially for women. We should not conduct labour market policy and business arrangements for presence in Denmark while pursuing refugee policy. In my view, one must have protection as a refugee, preferably in the vicinity, if one has a need for protection. If you do not have a need for protection, you are no longer a refugee, and that is actually why we have arrangements in Denmark where, even if you have been a refugee at some point, you can be here on an occupational scheme if you can meet those criteria, because then you will become a labour force instead of the basis you might originally have, and I think that is important to stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102309	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102312	Thank you. I thought it was a good speech. I think most people in this room share the values outlined by the Prime Minister. But where I get a little bit of a vote, there's gonna be such a one and us element in the speech. We can, for example. the rights of women. The other day, I was injured in writing a chronicle in the newspaper Denmark saying that, of course, the free abortion as described in the remark made by the UN Human Rights Committee, note 36 to Article 6, that women whose lives and health are at risk, of course, have a basic human right to have an abortion. I had the juices read and written in many e-mails about what kind of vision I had of the state of things. And now I can't know if people are Muslims, but it wasn't Muslims who wrote it to me that wasn't my impression. So these values are something that we must address to all of us. That's one thing. Then there's the labour market. After all, Prime Minister, we would have liked to have had the duty to work into the agreement we made this weekend, but the government will only allow that duty to apply to a particular group, namely those with foreign origin. The government could have just said it goes for everyone, of course, so we don't have to do that. We don't have to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102443	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102444	Well, we're not gonna get them and us. I mean, they and us never help. But we have to realise that we are one of the countries in the world with the highest rates of employment and employment, both for men and women. The vast majority with original Danish background go to work. It also looks really good when we look at refugees and immigrants now it is, of course, mainly immigrants with a Western background. However, when we start looking down into the group with a non-Western background, there are differences in the group, but especially from a group of countries, which, incidentally, has already been addressed by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the link with the labour market is simply too low, and it is at a cross and a cross of high and low economics. So this is not just a labour market challenge. It is also because there are some men who do not want their women to go to work, and that is not acceptable in Denmark at least if we are to finance their stay. You may choose not to be part of the labour market, but it should not be financed by others who go to work. That is a very, very basic value. So may I not say in relation to them and us at all: violence against women is one of the most abominable; violence against children is even worse. But when you visit a crisis centre in Denmark today, you have no doubt that there are some problems that are also related to culture, for some of those who have come here, because too many women in shelters today have a non-western background.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102603	The next brief remark is from Mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102607	The Prime Minister mentions a little in a side note that it is important that we do something about the asylum system we have today, because the business model of traffickers and so on. has actually been supported by the system that exists today. The cornerstone of the government's desire to change this is to create a reception centre in a third country, and we have talked about this in many rounds down here in the Chamber. Therefore, my question is really just to hear how things are going, and whether the Prime Minister is still confident about the fact that there will be sausage of that skin to put it plainly, that it will turn into something and not just remain such a talk about something that we would like to do, but which remains theory for all eternity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102650	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102651	I do not believe that this will remain the theory forever, because anyone who dares to enter into a debate on the current refugee system will have to recognise that it is not sustainable. It is clear that for some countries and for some governments and for some politicians it is harder to come to that realization than I think it has been in Denmark. So, no, I don't think it's gonna happen at some point. We haven't said at any time that this is easy. And the road there is bumpy. We're gonna continue our work, but we're gonna land there eventually. I think there are many in Europe who may both believe, but most of all hope that the great influx that we saw in 2015 was something that can be isolated until 2015. I don't think that's the case. The demographic changes on the African continent, for example, where the number of Africans doubles up to 2050 without sound economic growth, will, of course, result in enormous pressure on European borders. We still have a Middle East on fire and, most recently, around Belarus and Lukashenko, we have seen how migration is now being used as part of the hybrid attacks against Europe. So there will remain many more people who want to come to Europe than Europe can handle if our society is to be united. That is why I believe that we will have to land on that asylum system, but when, I dare not say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102818	The next brief remark is from Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102822	Thank you. I think the Prime Minister made a very nuanced speech, and I am delighted because I think that is what this debate needs. The debate on foreigners needs more nuances and needs that we do not divide ourselves into tighter and more relaxed if we are to have a good and nuanced debate. So I think this is a good starting point for the discussion we are going to have now. I also think that something that needs a little more nuances is the debate on the citizens who are being sent to Syria at the moment. I agree with what the Prime Minister said just now about the principle of temporaryity: I also think that we should give priority to those who have a need for protection. But the reality for these citizens is that the legislation has been changed so that there must be no lasting peace or anything that looks like such very stable conditions in order to send people there. This means that we are now in a situation where we are sending people to an unstable dictatorship, despite the fact that we cannot assure them that there will be stability or peace in the foreseeable future. Couldn't the Prime Minister consider looking at that legislation again so that there was better opportunity for people like this. The people we see being sent to Syria now can have the opportunity to stay here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102936	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128102937	I am of the fundamental conviction that people who have a need for protection must be protected. I do not believe that we should maintain the current asylum system, which is basically corrupt and the paradise of traffickers, in fact a construction that is inhumane. Today's refugee system is not humane. It's really broken down. But if you have a need for protection, it is one of the most fundamental human rights that you enjoy that protection. We then believe that this should be done primarily in the neighbourhood, preferably supplemented by a quota system in the context of the United Nations, for example, where we have control over the situation. That is why, of course, my answer is that if you no longer have a need for protection, I think the right thing to do is to go back. It is not only for the sake of Denmark and the refugee system; it is also for the sake of the country that you come from, because I assume that everyone has a desire to help in the country that you come from, that is, your own homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128103046	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128103049	Thank you for that, and thank you from here too for a fine speech, at least in words, and we hope, of course, that much of it will turn into action. I fully agree that this debate must, of course, be nuanced. Sometimes it can be a little difficult when we only have 2 minutes to ask a question, so let me go right to it. The Prime Minister has previously signed up in what to say, the choir of politicians who say that the number matters, i.e. that the number of people with a background in the MENAPT countries means something to how easy or difficult it is to integrate into our societies for the people who come here. If we continue to have an asylum system in Denmark where it is possible to obtain spontaneous asylum, then we will continue to bring more people here when we continue to give residence to people who also commit serious crimes, for example. It is important that we continue to provide public support to foreigners who do not support themselves, despite the fact that they are staying in a foreign country, and that this means that more people come here and those who are here and who have not adapted to our society will be allowed to stay. I know the Prime Minister as a politician who is not afraid to put the long light on. Then the Prime Minister could say something about how the Prime Minister views population development in our society. Does the Prime Minister have a picture of when to turn this around, that is, when to break the basket and how?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128103209	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128103210	First of all, I would like to say that we have a very low influx to Danish society right now. I do not conceive, nor do I want to claim that this is only a consequence of the policy pursued. It goes without saying that two years of pandemics have put a quite marked damper on how many people have set themselves in motion, at least against Europe. With regard to internally displaced persons worldwide, this is a different picture. So we have a low influx, and that's good. We have, as we go along, not all parties, but a number of parties have been significantly tightened up the rules, including in terms of family reunification, what has also been right to do, also to protect girls and women. Because I have met many girls and women with a foreign background resident in Denmark, where the family has then used the old family reunification rules to actually maintain them in oppression. So we have made a lot of decisions along the way, and I think we should keep doing that. I believe that we need to regulate the number severely so that we have a society that is linked. And my basic position, as I said before, is that, in fact, I do not believe that if you commit serious crime, you should be able to stay in Denmark, but I do not denounce our international obligations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128103321	Thank you, Prime Minister. There will then be no further brief comments to the Prime Minister at this stage, and I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, also to reply to the question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128103339	Thank you. I am not one of those who think that we are talking too much about value policy on the contrary, I would say. Immigration to Denmark has brought with it culture and religion, which collide with the values and equality that are essential to our society; which has become So, of course, we are talking about value policy. Many immigrants adapt without problems to our societies, but there is a minority that is stubbornly holding onto some very old-fashioned ideas that originate from their home countries. That is why it is important that we stand firm. We should not take a step back in misguided tolerance, on the contrary: I think it is important that we take a step forward. I would also like to say that I am aware that some of the things we sometimes discuss may hurt; that, as a Muslim, you may feel that it is all a matter of handshake, prayer room and Mohammed drawings, and that it may even be offensive. That is why I would also like to emphasise that I am well aware that the vast majority of immigrants in Denmark are doing well and are a huge force for our society, both economically and culturally, and nobody wants the debate on value to hurt certain sections of the population. Now it's just that freedom hurts sometimes. A society in which no one is violated is not a free society. We have our law to protect people, not to protect feelings and ideas. Perhaps one might also wish that the debates we have could always be held in a proper and fair and academic way, quietly and quietly, but that is not how a free public debate works. And we cannot sweep away questions about Christmas trees in housing associations, imams in Vollsmose and prayer calls in Gellerup; all that we cannot just sweep away as tabloid journalism and symbolism policy, on the contrary. On the contrary, I believe that this kind of discussion is an opportunity to take a step forward, because a democracy has a duty, I think, to both explain and defend itself. And this is particularly true in the institutions of the welfare state, where many of the cultural clashes we are talking about are taking place, because this is where we meet, fortunately, across cultural backgrounds, and it is therefore also here that there is an arena where the value struggle can be dealt with in concrete terms. At the best of our common institutions, they are thus helping to shape us and to form us, and they are creating cohesion and helping to make us democrats and thus to make society democratic. In a swimming pool it is not only about learning to swim; it is also about equality. In fact, I understand that sometimes, as a public servant, one can refrain from taking the conflict in order to maintain a good mood. I guess I myself, as a parent at parenting meetings, have experienced such things. Perhaps all too often one has experienced being left alone with the task of the clash of cultures, and perhaps one has also feared the consequences, but that is no good. Whether it is teaching that offends religious feelings, or the woman who is not allowed to meet at the job center without her husband, or parents who want the male lifeguards out of the swimming pool for girl swimming, the employees should know that society is behind them when they stand firm. More money has been allocated specifically for the upgrading of job centre staff and for the further training of teachers in this area. We have banned religious marriages of minors, we have tightened the penalties for maintaining people in marriage against their will, and more is on the way to helping children who are subjected to abuse and children who end up on reeducational journeys. But I also believe that we must recognise that we can legislate from here to Christmas Eve; if the civil servants and their managements are unable to stand firm in everyday life, we will lose anyway. I myself think that I am meeting more and more people who have practical experience and very reflected considerations in relation to how the values of democracy are expressed in concrete terms at their workplace and when the values are challenged by desires for religious or cultural speciality. I do not consider those educators, job consultants and schoolteachers to be either tighter or more relaxed in a classical foreign policy discussion. I actually just think that they are professional professionals who are deeply focused on helping young people, and they would never accept that religious dark men dictate the arrangement of the welfare state. So I'm really optimistic. I think it's been a little tricky sometimes. And behind the leaders of our public institutions there must also be a municipal council that backs up, otherwise it is difficult for them to stand firm in the middle of the storm, and here too I think we could sometimes get a little better. And behind the municipal councils there must also be a government and a parliament united in the desire to defend democratic values, so that we do not fly with a dagger in the backs of those people who defend our values in some very difficult and complicated cultural clashes that can take place in a kindergarten, at a school, at a job center or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128103936	Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for their reply. A brief comment of one minute's duration is also available here. A number of rapporteurs have asked for this, and first Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128103947	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech, and thank you for your commitment, which I really believe is there. But I was kind of thinking about something during the whole speech. The minister repeatedly came back to how things are going on out of town, and there I did not get a reply from the Prime Minister. It is good enough that we support them, because when there is someone, a coach, or whatever it is called, a swim coach in a swimming pool, and there is still gender-separated swimming instruction, he just has to stand firm. Around the schools, they just have to stand firm, and we have to back them up. But we are not, because we are not doing it from in here, and I still believe that we need to take some steps in here. The Minister knows very well that in his own party too there is enormous opposition to interfering. There are a great many municipal politicians who think that swimming is fine. It is still considered acceptable for school teachers to wear a scarf in teaching, etc. etc. It doesn't batt with just the words, and that's what I'm so sorry about, so that in here we don't stand by what we stand and say wholeheartedly and say that we're just not gonna put up with it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104100	It is true that the Social Democratic Party is a party in favour of municipal self-government, and we believe that the municipal councils have a responsibility to ensure that our common institutions also defend democratic values. I think that on several occasions, as rapporteur for foreigners and as Minister in the Parliamentary Chamber, I have seen that every time there is a specific local case, it will quickly become a political debate in here where we are going to regulate the amount of meatballs in the day institutions. I would rather back the municipal authorities who take this responsibility and ensure that we have a proper, democratic culture in our public institutions and that we do not give way to religious specialities locally. Currently, in my own municipality, there is a case in which two teachers have refused to give their hands to an internship counsellor at a school that is practically in my own backyard. And that's where I see the school said you can't be here. I think that is very good, so there is a local management at the school that has said that. Now there is an equal treatment board which has said that they must be compensated, but there I can see that there is a municipal council that says: then we go to court. I think this shows that we, both my own party and other parties, have the will to stand up for our values locally. Those people deserve support from in here, and they certainly have it from me and from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104212	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104214	Thank you. Just before I asked the Prime Minister whether we should not call for negotiations to tighten up the rules of permanent residence, but I did not get an answer to that, despite the fact that the Prime Minister used the opening speech a year and a half ago to call for a fight against crime in non-western environments. I used the figure just now that more than one in five from Somalia and Iraq commit crime after they have been permanently resident, and last night I received a new figure, which I hardly believed in, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that is that of those who commit crime before they have a permanent residence is over 99%. of them non-EU citizens. This is crazy! So does the Minister for Foreign Affairs seriously believe that the current rules for permanent residence are good enough, or is it about time, as we believe, for the Conservative People's Party to tighten up the rules significantly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104303	Denmark has some rather strict rules for permanent residence, and permanent residence is also the prerequisite for obtaining citizenship, and there we are bound by certain conditions for how long it will take to be able to apply for Danish citizenship. We have no ambition to open negotiations on permanent residence. I would also like to say that, whether you are permanently resident or not, it does not change the fact that if you commit crime, we believe that it should also be able to lead to expulsion as far as possible. And there is not quite the legislation yet, and that is why the government will also be putting forward a legislative proposal to tighten up the expulsion clause, and that will also apply to people who have been granted a permanent residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104351	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104355	Thank you, Minister. The minister talks about social control, so did the Prime Minister. It must be combated, but as long as the patriarchate remains, there will be social control not only in Muslim environments but in all environments. As long as we have a male-dominated society, there will be social control. A woman gets killed by her partner or partner. We have 12 women's killings a year. It's not just Muslim women. They are also ethnic Danish women. 38,000 women are subjected to violence each year. It's not just Muslim women. They are also ethnic Danish women. So the patriarchal cat survives and as long as it lasts, we want negative social control, then we want female violence, then there will be feminicide. I miss the fact that both the Prime Minister and the Minister focus on the ethnic Danish women who are being exposed. Don't they need help? Isn't that part of the effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104508	We do not believe that equality is the goal, even for ethnic Danish women, but we must be careful what happens every time we try to focus on a problem, in this case girls and women from immigrant communities. You're always asked, what about the boys? And what about the girls? And what about the old ones? And what about the disabled? In this way, problems will never be solved, and those who are the real losers are the many young women with an immigrant background who are subjected to severe social control. If you take the young women at Danish shelters, the majority of them have immigrant backgrounds. That's totally, totally wrong. Once the government has set up the commission to work on this issue and submit recommendations to the government and parliament in a year's time, we have said that it is specific to addressing the challenges of immigrant environments. It is not to neglect other issues. It's because there's a need to focus on this. I have nothing against the metoo and earmarked maternity leave for men and everything else, but there is a forgotten women's struggle, and we have to take a little more interest in that. Someone asked me yesterday, why do you care so much about scarves? There are also some girls who are not allowed to wear croptops. I just want to say that if you go to a shelter, it is not women who have not had to wear croptops when they are small; it is girls who have had an obligation to wear a scarf. So we're gonna have to dare this. We must dare to come forward and if we are really concerned about that, and I know that the rapporteur is equal opportunities, including in the immigrant environments, then we must dare to point out the problem, otherwise they will lose.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104634	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104637	Thank you. I really wanted to ask you something else, but as a follow-up to Mr. Sikandar Siddique's claim is that immigrants and descendants amount to 23 per cent. by the perpetrators when we speak partner killings in Denmark. And they're only 9%. of the population. So it's a massive over-representation. Then it may be that in numbers they do not take up much, but they are greatly over-represented. I would like to ask about population development, which I also tried with the Prime Minister. Because it is true that fewer people are coming here in these years, but the trend is in the wrong direction. And that may sound a bit harsh, but the dilemma is that when the people who come here, especially from the MEAPT countries, do not take our values into account, and when they marry people who have the same values as themselves and thus isolate themselves from society and live in parallel societies, then it becomes a problem. I asked the Prime Minister when the Prime Minister, or perhaps the government, thought this development should be reversed. Do you even think that it should be reversed, or do you think that in 50-100 years' time Denmark will naturally be more Islamic than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104741	We will not live in an Islamic state in 50 or 100 years; that will not happen. But the Danish population, that is, the demography, is changing and migration has come to stay. Thousands of people come to Denmark every year, and thousands of Danes travel out. We cannot build walls and shield ourselves against the world in this way, but what we can ensure is that the amount of migration that comes here, and in particular the nature of it, is to an extent where integration so abundantly can keep up with • and I say so abundantly because we have an integration debt that needs to be paid off. So we need for a long time to get relatively little migration to Denmark from the countries around the Middle East, because that is where the major integration challenges are. And we can see that we are actually in the process. When we look at the statistics today for education, particularly among young women, for employment, especially among men, and also for values, we are actually moving in the right direction, and I bet that the main reason for this is that we have the influx under control. Then there are some specific problems where I do not think we can be satisfied, and this is particularly about women's employment, and then it is still about young women's rights in Danish society too, and then it is about crime among young men. There are some defined areas in which we cannot in any way be satisfied, as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104858	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Kathrine Olly, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128104902	Thank you so much. I want to ask you something that may sound a little boring, and then we're back in the municipalities, because I've got an idea. We can of course see in the municipalities that, due to the low influx of spontaneous asylum seekers we are currently receiving, the members of the communists have been moved much more to other areas, that there has been a reduction and that it has been minimal and that the integration efforts in the different municipalities are thus also very much of a very different quality. Some municipalities are better dressed and better equipped to receive than others. Could it be imagined that we were trying to talk about how to create a quota system in the municipalities, when we still have these keys, where we say that some municipalities like to report that they leave for a few years or three, and that the task then shifts to other municipalities, so that you can actually do that with the idea that you can qualify the integration effort municipally? There, at least in the Radical Left, we think that it could be a very exciting approach to try to qualify the integration effort, including for some funds that we have already allocated. So it's just about how we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105016	Every summer a letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is sent to all municipalities about how many refugees and family members are expected to receive next year, so they are able to prepare their integration efforts. The letters I have been sending in the last three years have been some letters with some very small numbers. For the vast majority of municipalities, the number of refugees and family members is one-digit, and this also means that an average municipality such as Holstebro or Næstved or Gladsaxe knows that it is relatively manageable. It may be two general homes, a couple of individual school classes and then a single job consultant down at the job center to help Dad and Mom to work. Then they have actually solved their integration task with the new arrivals for that year, which means that the municipality has a surplus to start taking an interest in those who have been there for a long time. At the same time, we also say that if there are any municipalities that would like to have more, then they must finally join. For then there are certainly some municipalities that would like to have fewer, and there is hardly anyone who writes that they would like more. This time there was actually Bornholm and an extra municipality who said so and then they are moved around. One last thing I want to say is that I also believe that integration is not so successful in practice because of all these projects that are ongoing, but that it succeeds because our common institutions are able to receive them. A primary school with a limited number of children can succeed, and that is not because there is some project consultant sitting down on the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105133	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105137	When I was a kid, my dad and my mom got divorced, and my dad moved up in what you would call a ghetto area like that. So I got a relatively large circle of acquaintances there, and there you see little of each, not least violence. And what comes of such a thing? It comes from the fact that it is people who are moving on the edge of society who are being looked down on them, they are being addressed, not so nicely, and so many of them have great economic challenges. There was a time when I thought that I heard the Social Democratic Party being a party that recognised that the economy is very much part of the problem for the people on the edge of society and that it does not necessarily relate to culture. It is possible that there are some cultural challenges, but there are indeed also some economic challenges, among others. We know that we have the poverty benefits that we have in Denmark. Will the government look at the poverty benefits during the negotiations here after the Commission's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105255	The government is going to discuss benefits with the Folketing, and it is true that there is a Commission on Service which has made some recommendations. Where those negotiations end, I dare not predict, and I may refer to the Minister for Employment. I would also like to say, when we are here, that my parents also divorced when I was a child, and my father also moved into an area that was called a ghetto area, and I bet that if you go up in that area in Aarhus today and visit it, regardless of whether the benefits have been high or low, there is still a lot of violence in those risings. It is not to ignore the fact that the economy plays a role, of course, I would like to fully acknowledge that, but I think we must also recognise that immigration culture plays a greater role in our society if we are to understand the social problems that exist than it did in the 1950s and 1930s. An additional component has been introduced, which is important to understand in order to tackle social problems, which is why I am, in fact, fundamentally sceptical about thinking that these children are necessarily better off simply raising benefits, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105400	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105403	Thank you. I have one question in relation to the fight against negative social control, or what Mrs Line Barfod, when she was the legal rapporteur, was called honorary violence. It was in the '00s, and now it is called something else, namely 'negative social control'. I think that for many years we have been trying to get rid of this by depriving women of rights, especially young women, so that we can say what we can say, just as under the guise of helping these women now, but we would also like to have a strict immigration policy, so that in fact we have been very concerned about how to deprive people of their residence permits. And this has in fact made women worse, both the young women who have been sent on reeducation trips, but also the women who are in Denmark and who are dependent on their husband's residence permit and therefore do not leave him because they lose their residence basis, even though he is physically violent, psychologically violent, sexually violent, and so we can continue to do so. So I just have to ask the Minister if this is an expression of the fact that we are now going to a place where we are actually giving these women some rights and trying to take it a little away from the fact that you want to have a strict immigration policy, but that we are sticking to it that we are actually trying to help these women instead of just depriving them of their rights in trying to help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105521	The short answer is yes. We are not in the process of taking a rematch on whether Denmark should pursue a tight or a lax foreign policy. Denmark is going to pursue a strict immigration policy, and the pillars of foreign policy are firmly established. But I actually acknowledge that sometimes I think with the heart of the right place we have made some changes to the Aliens Act that have ended up being de facto counterproductive in our efforts to help. A specific place is that we have written into the law that your child loses the residence permit if you send it on a re-educational journey. It was to be used as a scare example so that the parents did not send the children on a reeducational trip, and some have stayed anyway, and now they are actually a place where they can end up with the residence permit having lapsed. And I don't think that's ever been the intention of a single member of parliament. So there are some places we need to look at, and one of the places is the cancellation of residence permits on reeducation trips, and I also hope that we in the Folketing can agree very broadly to focus on the problem, which is the reeducation journeys, and that we are not in a situation where the girls or women end up being punished.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105625	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments. And we shall now proceed to the debate, and hence to the general rules for short remarks. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128105655	Thank you. I would actually like to start by signing that, when I have raised this debate for the last many years on behalf of the Danish People's Party, it has actually been well received; I have to say that. It is a debate that has taken many hours, and it has always been on Fridays. So it is actually very positive that so many of us are involved in this debate, because it is of course justified. And I can promise that it will be an ever-recurring event and that it is one of the first questions that will be reported when we start the parliamentary year. Since we had the last debate on the government's value policy, focusing on the challenges of immigration, in January last year, it has offered many new examples. Value struggle is important. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said in an interview in Jyllands-Posten exactly 1 year ago, the fight against value and the fight against Islamism is about the very survival of the welfare state. I would add on my own account that this is indeed a matter for Denmark's survival. The minister said: "An extreme version of Islam has not only destabilised large parts of the Middle East. It has also strangled integration in Denmark and will continue to do so if you do not take life grip with the phenomenon. It is good that the understanding of value struggle has spread into government offices, but value struggle is not just words; it is also actions. And although the government maintains most of the strict immigration policy that the blue bloc led by the Danish People's Party in particular has implemented, we also see relaxations on the part of the Social Democratic Government. Let me just mention some: refugees are allowed to stay in Denmark if they are in employment. Leisure center Lindholm has been dropped, so rejected asylum seekers, criminals expelled foreigners and people on tolerated stays still at Kærshovedgård in Jutland; the government's proposal with Langeland did not work, and the answer still flakes in the wind. Where do we put them when we don't want to and can send them home? The government has opened up quota refugees. The residence requirement for entitlement to benefit has been removed. Yes, there is also a value struggle in the municipalities. We have already mentioned this in this debate. The municipal election campaign in the autumn also revealed differences in a wide range of areas. In Copenhagen, gender-separated swimming was a theme because in Hillerødgade swimming hall there are gender-separated children's teams, and this means that the child's father must not be present. The director of the Capital Swim Club could indicate that 10-15 of the teams are broken down by gender. The Social Democrat Lars Aslan Rasmussen got that up in the red field, and he wrote on Facebook: "TALIBANMARK IN SVØMMEHALLEN·. The Danish People's Party proposed in the citizens' representation to abolish the gender-separated swimming, but only the Left and Conservatives voted in favour. The Social Democrats, together with the left, voted down the proposal. In B.T. 95% replied. of 24,671 readers no to gender-separated swimming in September 2021. In 2017, Aarhus Municipality first introduced a ban on gender-separated swimming, so it can be done. In order to stay in the municipal world, there were in Vapnagaard, which is a residential area in Helsingør Municipality with many immigrants and hence many problems, during the election campaign held gender-separated information meetings on the upcoming election: one evening for men, one evening for women and with interpretation to Turkish and Arabic. And I can again refer to the citizenship study by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, which shows that Muslim women in particular will be allowed to pray during working hours and want religious eating rules to apply in food schemes, i.e... halal meat rather than pork meat, and that they should be able to reject offers of jobs on their own religious grounds, without having consequences for them. The value struggle takes place at all levels, not least at local level. And I really am calling for an action plan from the government that deals specifically with many of these issues. Action plans can be worked out by the government. Last Tuesday, the government launched an action plan against anti-Semitism. The background was extensive vandalism against Jewish burial sites in several places in Denmark. It is quite awful, totally unacceptable and a mess that we as a society should not put up with, of course, not. The Minister for Justice and the Minister for Children and Education is therefore proposing an action plan which focuses on this by mandatory teaching in the holocaust at school and in the training of police officers and more research into it. That all sounds all right, but my experience also says that anti-Semitism is not only found on the extreme right. Everyday chicane against Jews is much more widespread and is practised in many cases by many resident Muslims who see red when they see a star of David. Many Jews in Denmark have therefore stopped wearing Jewish marks. And many of the Jews I have talked to over the years often point to harassment by Muslims as the major problem rather than harassment by people on the extreme right. Whether religion or the conflict between Israel and the Muslim world in the Middle East is the real cause, I do not know. I am just mentioning it as a few examples. I would like to conclude this rapporteur's speech by presenting on behalf of the Danish People's Party and New Citizens' Party the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that immigration to Denmark through refugees and family reunification from countries in the Middle East, North Africa, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Turkey has caused great problems for decades. Parliament calls for society to stand firm on the Danish values and not give in to Muslims' demands for special consideration and have a fight with the negative social control and parallel societies that are widely used in Muslim environments. Parliament calls on the government to focus on the value struggle and to present an action plan by the end of 2022 with concrete solutions addressing many of the problems associated with Muslim immigration. • V 30).
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110352	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there is a brief comment first from Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110358	Thank you for the floor, President. For the last two years, we have fought with the covid-19, and the Prime Minister called for nuances in the debate. There we have seen that minority women have really been on the front line in health care and in the testing centres, and there we in the Green Group believe that a thank you will be in place. Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has drawn a picture of integration and so on, so I just want to hear from the nuances whether Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard acknowledges that minority women have been at the forefront and acted as heroes in this covid-19 situation? Can Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard relate to that aspect alone? Now, we've heard of everything else... all the negative stuff... but will Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard acknowledge that the minority women have been our heroes here with a lot of others... and taken the lead over the covid-19?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110504	Well, I'd like to acknowledge everyone who does a good job. Why, on earth, should minority women be recognized only? When you've lived in Denmark, should you suddenly be highlighted as absolutely fantastic because you've just done this? Well, we shouldn't find any nuances, sir. Sikandar Siddique? That is what is not being done here. I'd call it nonsense, to put it bluntly. I just said in a question, I think it was for the Prime Minister, or it was for the Minister of Integration. It was for the Prime Minister that you are cheering over, and I think it is a good thing that a lot of young Muslim women get a long-term education. Okay, I'm happy about that, too. But then it happens that the story is not finished that many do not use it because they are still being corrected by their Muslim families and are being told that they must not. Well, that's part of it, too. Then it may well be that there have been some minority women on the front line, many of them unfortunately wearing a scarf, and I think we have heard that too many times, and I regret that, that is to say, we are not taking the step fully and tested. Well, fine, but it could be that there was just as much need for around restaurants and all sorts of places that can't get staff and where you don't get that much pay and where you're probably asked to take off the scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110621	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110622	One could also have just answered: Yes, I acknowledge their efforts. Well, question No. 2 is about Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard talking about this gender-separated swimming: What does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard think about gender-separated scout clubs, gender-separated sport, for example. The Green Girl Scouts, a Christian Scout Association, which is also gender-separated? What is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110657-2	Well, now I've been a Blue Tit once a hundred years ago, not, so I guess it wasn't for religious reasons. At least I don't remember it that way. And I'm absolutely sure I know that, and Mr. Sikandar Siddique also says that when there are parent meetings, the fathers also show up, even though they are girls. Well, I just have to repeat my answer from the last one: it is purely Sikandar Siddique's case. I think it's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110725	The next brief remark is to Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110727	Thank you. The Prime Minister said earlier that it is in particular the responsibility of the newcomer to ensure integration, and I basically agree with that. I mean, I cannot ensure that people who come here are well integrated, but I can help create a good framework for it. And some of what we can do to create a good framework for integration is, of course, among other things. to combat some of the racism that is still absent in our society, unfortunately. And that is why I just want to hear Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard: Now we have decided to map out racism in Denmark, and we have also decided to draw up an action plan against racism, so what does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard think about it basically?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110810	I think racism is abhorrent, of course. And I hope that this includes everything in Danish society, i.e. for example. also, when Muslims harass Jews at Nørrebro and elsewhere I hope so too. I also hope that the reverse racism will be included, i.e. that a great many Danes with a common ethnic background feel very harassed by Muslim boy gangs too. I also hope that it comes down to the fact that it is incredibly difficult for many teachers to get a complete check on the classes because there are too many Muslim boys who do not comply with the rules of the game as there are. So I'm excited to see what you're getting at. I hope that this is the whole package and then we will take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110850	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110851	Thank you. Now it came to something a little different here at the end, but I really think that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard was positive at the beginning. If you are comfortable with mapping the extent of racism in Denmark and also drawing up an action plan against it, why is it that the Danish People's Party has not been more active in pushing the government to get this action plan against racism, which we support parties have had to put a lot of energy into getting the government to take the initiative on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110918	But I have at all times and I would like to repeat it from the Speaker's Office of the Danish Parliament that Denmark should be a racist country. I simply cannot accept that. And I have to say that I am actually inclined to believe that what you come up with will be wasted words and money on Balle-Lars. But you can deal with many things here in the Folketing. So now the red majority has decided on this, and I can tell you that I am excited about what you come up with, of course I am. But I simply cannot accept that the Danes are a racist people. That there are some fools around, yes, there are, but there are in many contexts, also at other levels.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128110959	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111001	But we are all racists, somewhere, we are all wearing a strap of skin, and if we do not have that recognition, it is difficult to combat racism. Well, I think the most important thing is that you have the realization that there is something in all of us of different degrees. I mean, we're like people. But I didn't want to talk about it. When I hear Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and in general the Danish People's Party talk about decades of barn in Danish immigration policy, I wonder a little, because in my optics, no one has, in the last 20 years, had such an influence on foreign policy in Denmark as the Danish People's Party. Has the Danish People's Party been allowed to stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111059	No, I don't think you can say that. After all, this debate alone says that we have come a long way. I've been in the debates. Mr. Jens Rohde has also been a good political rapporteur in the Left since his time, and he himself has been involved in the debates that were not so, what to say, unprejudiced as they are today. That's a good place to look forward to. We can also welcome a large number of measures, but we have certainly not achieved the objective, not at all. And I must say that I used it often, and I would like to do it again: if not the Danish People's Party had been there, then we would have had Swedish conditions. Unfortunately, we are a little on the way, I think, because in the outlying neighbourhoods around, in Copenhagen city life and city life elsewhere such as. Odense, Aarhus etc. We see this gang crime, which, unfortunately, is a little scary to say the least. But let me get back to the racism thing. I would like to distance myself from that. I would say that we all probably have prejudices in different contexts. There have been many prejudices against me, and I cannot say that I am free of prejudice. Because I don't think anyone can. There's always something that triggers you in relation to prejudice. I don't want to buy that with racism. Everything's relative. We can go back to the identity debate and so on, and indeed, there are probably many who will feel that there is a lot of racism right there. I don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111218	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111219	Well, there's a place where I think I'm roughly in line with Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, in this whole identity discussion, which I think somewhere is a little special, spectacular for now to use a nice word. But what I am going to do is call it racism or prejudice, or what I know is that you cannot fight what you deny exists. And that's just the realization I'd like to get to. I usually discuss cultural pessimism with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, and there we usually take a proper trip to the Danish Parliament and spend an hour on it when we can, and when we are allowed to do so, and if you read the German culture pessimists, it is all about learning literature that you have to recognise the things that prevent you from being able to fight evil. And that is why I would point out that we must start with ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111319-2	I think you must always, certainly, in every context. But I'm just so terribly sorry if it gets close to the fact that Danes are racists, and I clearly recognise that there are some really, really ugly cases, but does it justify a whole action plan in relation to it? And so I'm just gonna have to say, even though we agree, and I'm glad to say that in relation to the whole identity debate, it's totally ridiculous, because what you haven't removed from things, you have to say, a blackbird, because it's just black, and now I'm making fun of it, but that's almost where we are. And then you could say that it's racist, I guess someone's gonna say that, and then I'm just gonna say, "Well, come on, don't you?"
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111401	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111403	Thank you. I think it is a little bit funny to hear Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard say that all this identity policy is a little ridiculous when, for more than ten years, I think it is, you have called this debate, which is so much about identity and identity policy. I think that's a little funny. But I would like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard something that is rather a la det, as Mr. Jens Rohde asked. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is one of those who has had the greatest influence on integration policy in the last 20 years. Of course we can be sorry about this in the Enhedslisten; I do not think it is a secret that our parties disagree, but that is the way it is, and therefore I hope that it gives rise to some reflection in the Danish People's Party that some of the major integration problems we face today have been created by the policy that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has led.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111457	I can't quite get that hanging together, at all; I have to say that. And yes, we have, fortunately, had a great deal of influence, but to say that the major integration problems are due to the Danish People's Party is probably a prejudice that wants something, and I must totally reject that. Now the number was mentioned before. I do not remember who mentioned it; I think it was Mrs Pernille Vermund who mentioned the number. I have been preaching from the mid-eighties that the number actually meant something, because it is precisely not possible to integrate those who want to. There's no capacity for it at all. It is not a matter of simply hiring more people, but it is also the other way, absolutely, and most definitely the other way: that you want the Danish society, that you take Denmark to heart with what is such a rather squandered expression. I almost don't want to use it because it's just too much and used too many times, but that's the way it is. Integrates those who want to integrate and do a great deal of work themselves, and then there must also be the resources for it, certainly, but that again has something to do with the number, and that is what has ruined it for a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111607	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111607-2	I wish, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, that these were just my prejudices about the Danish People's Party. I would like to give some examples of some policy that the Danish People's Party has implemented, which I think has created so much the problems of integration and the problems of negative social control that we face today. That is, for example, the case. This is the question of taking residence permits from young people who were sent on a re-educational journey, which, of course, has meant that they were caught where they were on a re-educational journey. This is the policy that means that women who have come to Denmark and who have been brought together to Denmark cannot obtain their own residence permit and therefore stay with their violent husband. I think this should give rise to some reflection by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the rest of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111653	I do not agree with that. I think that when these cases arise and there are many, many more than those mentioned by Mrs Lund, we have to take action in some way from here. We will not accept it and then we will look differently at how we proceed in this. So you can't just send your child on a reeducational journey without any consequences. Well, what are you gonna do other than what we've done? I can't see that. It's just to mention one of the cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111722	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111725	That is just a comment to Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde's reflections on German cultural pessimists and the analogy he tried to link to Danish politics, because I think that when he reads his Spengler, Mann and Botho Strauss, he should consider what role they had theirs in contemporary times and in their posterity, because they are just like the Danish People's Party, first people whom he has recognised the quality of long after their business. And if so, sir... Jens Rohde had understood the golden grain, as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said in the 1980s and in the 1990s, it could have been that with his business in up to several parties he had led to the improvement of the country rather than the deterioration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111756	I'll be happy to leave the platform for just two minutes, so sir. Jens Rohde can come up here. Yeah, it's a good discussion. Maybe somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111807	Sir. Jens Rohde's gonna have a seat on the platform a little later. Here and now we thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. In this way we can go further in the rapporteur's line, and it has become the turn of the Social Democrat Party by Mr Gundelach. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128111826	In the integration debate there are rarely stories that give rise to great optimism and encouragement, but last week I read a column in Berlingske that gave rise to lots of hope. The cluster is about the thousands of poders who have played a key role in the test strategy, which has made it possible to keep Denmark more open than most other countries, and who have made it possible to keep the infection in check, at least until Omikron entered the stage. Most of us have been grafted innumerable times in the nose and throat, and at the test site where I have most often been grafted, most times it has been young people with roots somewhere in the Great Middle East who have accepted with kindness, care and care. Unintentionally, the test centres as a side benefit may end up being one of Denmark's most successful integration projects, without being a project. These young people have managed on ordinary terms: no special treatment, no case workers, no wage subsidies, no project makers, just them, their employers and so a lot of people who had to be tested. They sought a job, they got it, they fit it, and the future lies at their feet. Soon the restrictions will be over, and here we are with thousands of young people who have shown their worth. It is young people with a profile that has historically been over-represented in some of the wrong statistics, but it is young people who have shown that they do not belong in that over-representation. It is worth rejoicing. According to Berlingske, the business community has, among other things: Coop and Salling, already spotted this good labor that's about to become available. And now there is a co-responsibility of employers, whether they are public or private. When these thousands of young people knock on your door, you can safely give them a chance, because they have proven that they intend to seize it and live up to the trust that you have shown them. It may be in municipalities that lack nursing staff, as sosu students, as apprentices of craft masters and industrial companies, who lack an apprentice who can get up in the morning and want to take hold or which way young people's interests are now drawing them. The important thing is that these young people have shown that they want the community, they want to fend for themselves, not by making quick money and standing next to the majority population; no, they have shown that they want to contribute to Denmark, they are on board. Although one might think that in the integration debate we should not talk about them and about us, when we talk about them and about us, they have nevertheless shown that they belong to us. When a young person has nothing to lose, the risk of getting lost is greater, and therefore work, education, an apprenticeship, an income and some who depend on one are important contributions to putting a youth life on track. A large majority of the population, and this is fortunately reflected here in the Danish Parliament too, is in favour of a firm, responsible and strict immigration policy; a policy that takes care of the Denmark in which most of us have grown up and loved, a Denmark that we do not want fundamentally changed by immigration, and a Denmark where everything is therefore not constantly under negotiation either. Not everyone, but too many people who really do not want to live in the West have found it convenient to come here since 1983. This involves discussion of the role of Islam in society, discussion of cultural clashes, about equality, about special considerations, discussion of rejection of special considerations, discussion of freedoms, about violence, about negative social control, discussion of concepts of honour, discussion of counterculture, discussion of democratic understanding or lack of understanding. In addition to these discussions, incredible amounts of legislation have been needed to protect our country and our freedom. People are welcome in Denmark, and I meet lots of foreigners who thrive here and enjoy the freedom, democracy, opportunities, prospects for themselves and their children. They have come because they could see that Denmark is a good country. However, those who have come here and have since had a desire to draw Denmark in a direction similar to their country of origin should think about why they came at the time. They came because Denmark is a country with opportunities • peaceful, safe and prosperous • unlike the countries they came from. And this is where the reflection should start. One should ask oneself: is Denmark a good country because there is something special in drinking water that was not in my country, or is Denmark a good country because of democracy, culture, values and ideas. When you arrive at the obvious, you should consider whether you should not immediately check in a little more wholeheartedly in relation to the custom and use of the country; e.g. let your daughter go without a scarf, if that's what she wants; leave your son open about homosexuality; inform the authorities if you know that a child is being subjected to violence; contact PET if you hear about someone trying to radicalise and spread hatred; consider being vaccinated against covid-19; and accept that both men and women are on the labour market. I look forward to the further debate and, on behalf of the Socialist Group, will read out a proposal for adoption. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that many foreigners contribute to Danish society and live a life in accordance with Danish values. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that several decades of large non-Western immigration have challenged our welfare societies and lead to cultural and value clash. The Danish Parliament notes that Danish values are under pressure from extreme Islamist forces and that there is a need for society to stand firm on Danish values. The Folketing also notes that there are particular challenges in relation to girls and women's ability to live a life of freedom and self-determination in certain minority environments. The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the government is setting up a Commission for Women and Girls' Rights and is working to increase control of immigration so that integration can keep pace. • • • • • • • • • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112342	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112350	Thank you for that, President. What I was particularly concerned about in the previous rapporteurs were the observations made by Mr Gundelach. Jens Rohde did not talk about German pessimists, but about whether a violent behavior is culturally or socially detected. That is where I think it is essential to hear what the Social Democrat rapporteur thinks in this regard. There is no doubt that in the Muslim groups around Denmark there is a violent over-representation when it comes to violence, but it is also not uninteresting to find out why it is so. In my optics, it is the depraved view of both women and minority groups that emanates from Islam, and which one can also see manifest itself by the fact that the majority of the world's violent communities are Muslim. This is the main reason why we see this very, very large over-representation of violence among Muslims. I would just like to see the rapporteur's view of this, i.e. that it is Islam as a culture that breeds a violent culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112454	There is no doubt that Islam as a culture plays a major role in this. When you see these international rankings of which countries in the world are the most violent against, among other things. Women and homosexuals and others are those who, in a dull sense, top the list, Islamic countries. The best survey I think is done by this is by social scientist Ruud Koopmans, who wrote the book "Islam's Dead House." There he compares societies which are in many ways the same, but where what is the difference is religion. He's looking at what it is that's bouncing out here. He compares, for example. northern Nigeria with southern Nigeria, where one part is Christianly dominated and the other is Muslimly dominated, he compares Christian Lebanese in Australia with Muslim Lebanese in Australia, and he compares Mauritius and the Maldives, and what goes again for these communities, which are all similar in the comparisons he makes, except one factor, namely religion, is that it goes badly in the places that are Islamic dominated, in terms of employment, violence, education and other factors. So, in my opinion, it is impossible to avoid the fact that this cultural part obviously plays a role. It does not exclude that one can be well integrated and everything else, even if one is a Muslim; that is not what I am saying. But it is impossible to escape the fact that it plays a role.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112614	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112615	I am very pleased to have a confirmation of that. Then I would like to hear why the Social Democratic Party will not allow it to be included in Denmark's policy at all. Why not take the consequences and let it be more difficult to get to Denmark by e.g. family reunifications from Muslim countries and much easier to get out? So, if we agree that it is religion and culture that determines and governs whether a society is developing in a direction of freedom or in a violent direction, why not also organise the policy accordingly and simply say that we must have an ambition to reduce the number of Muslims in Denmark so as to create a more peaceful coexistence among those who can find out?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112652	Because when you talk about social conditions, you have to distinguish between groups and individuals. And there are lots of individuals who are Muslims and who are doing excellent in Denmark and who do not pose a problem in these contexts when it comes to violence, as was the starting point for the question for example. What is the problem here are the groups when we cross-reference them. Individuals may be exceptions. And we have already made very strict rules on family reunification, for example, as is now the case, sir. Morten Messerschmidt asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112721	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112722	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to start by recognising the rapporteur's first part of the speech. As the Prime Minister said, I think nuances are important. I thought it was good to hear and I think that a lot of people sitting out there watching will feel that it is nice that a Socialist rapporteur recognises that there are a great many minorities who have stood on the front line in relation to the covid-19. So I would like to acknowledge that. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something. This debate is very quickly becoming such a thing with foreigners, minority dancers and non-western immigrants, and many times it can be really hard to find out what it is that you are talking about, for example. The rapporteur says that many foreigners are doing a good job. I do not remember the exact wording, but something about being a contributing part of Danish society. When you say foreigner, it also covers the children, for example. was born here and doesn't have a Danish passport? Well, what does that concept cover? In fact, I could rephrase the question and ask whether the Social Democratic Party considers children born and raised in Denmark who do not have a Danish passport because their parents, for example, have a Danish passport. comes from the Middle East, as Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112839	First of all, thank you for those nice words. Then I would say that if I and my family decided to emigrate to India, I would have no expectation that we would be Indian citizens or referred to as Indians in a very few years, and I would not be offended at all by still being referred to as the Dane. Well, I wouldn't put anything normative in that at all. I am not sure that I have understood the question precisely, but I think the most logical thing to do when it comes to whether people are one or the other nationality is to look at what citizenship they have, and then say that if you have Danish citizenship, you are Dane, if you have Indian citizenship, you are Indian, and if you have Chinese citizenship, you are Chinese. There is nothing negative in it on my part; I just think it's easiest that we handle it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112930	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128112931	Okay, it's great to get a clarification on that. This means that if you do not have Danish citizenship, you are what you call foreigner and descendant. And otherwise you are Danish if you have a Danish citizenship. The reason I ask is that one study shows that one in ten children born in Denmark are born without citizenship. And I know that the Greens and the Social Democrats disagree on whether to have it automatically when you are born, but I would like to hear the thoughts of the Social Democrats. If that development continues, then at some point in 10 or 20 years we will have a lot of people in our society who cannot participate in democracy and cannot vote etc. We do not agree that they should have it, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's thoughts about what will happen and what kind of society we will become when there are suddenly very, very many people who are outside democracy and are some sort of spectator of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113022	I think that families have a responsibility to decide what nationality is the natural thing for them. If you have a family life in Denmark and put children in the world here and it matters to you that the future lies in Denmark, and you have a Danish identity, then it would be natural for the adult members of that family to become Danish citizens, and then their children would also naturally be. But, on the other hand, I also understand that if you do, for example, if you do. is here to work at Novo for a few years and comes from India, so don't think it's natural that one should be a Danish citizen for that reason • just as I wouldn't think it was natural that my child, if we moved to India now and had another child, should be an Indian citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113101	Thank you. Time's up. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Spencer. Alex Ahrendtsen from DF. Here you go with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113110	Thank you. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Integration actually made excellent speeches with good, sensible considerations, so I do not really want to comment on that. Instead, however, I would like to talk a little about the limit, that is, the limit that we have in Denmark, for obtaining labour outside the European Union. I have noted that New Citizens would like to pick up labour from among others. countries such as India and Indonesia, which together have about 500 million Muslim citizens. Does the rapporteur agree with New Citizens that it is a good idea to do this? After all, the government, in line with the bourgeois bloc, has proposed lowering the threshold. I would like an answer to that from the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113203	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113204	I guess I'm gonna have to go back a little bit to some of what I said before. In fact, I sincerely believe that when you talk about social issues, you have to distinguish between groups and individuals, and although there may be some cultural challenges with a community group, it is not the same as that all individuals belonging to that group pose a challenge. This is far from being the case. If we live up to the criteria we have on different occupational schemes, whether it is a positive list or a business scheme or one of the other research schemes, then I believe that these rules should be the same for everyone, because we should not start to discriminate on the basis of some identity that we are trying to identify. We need to look at how people act, what competences they have, what they will contribute, whether they live up to the rules and then say that we all treat the same. Otherwise, we cannot expect them to respect it when we say that we are a democracy characterised by equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113304	Thank you. Alex Ahrendtsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113306	But Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the problem of immigration is mainly due to the cultural and religious aspects, including the citizens who come with a Muslim background. Can the rapporteur not see that it is somewhat contradictory that, on the one hand, we are well aware of this because of all the problems we have experienced over the past 40 years, but, on the other hand, will allow labour migration from those countries with that baggage and the problems that follow? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113340	Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113341	First of all, there is nothing new about allowing immigration, because it has been possible, even at all the times when the Danish People's Party has had the crucial mandates in the Assembly Hall. The amount mechanism has been an opportunity for people from all over the world for years and so is it now. I think that the crucial thing here is that these are people who come here and work and have a residence basis on that basis, meeting some pretty tight requirements for it. The day they then do not live up to it anymore, and after all it is a major element of the integration problem that people are not at work, they will have to go back home, because then they will not have a stay in Denmark anymore if they have come to the payment system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113413	Thank you. The next one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Spencer. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113416	Thank you. I was really sorry to hear that the Social Democratic Party will not agree to look at the rules of permanent residence, despite the fact that the Prime Minister repeatedly says that we must strike down criminal foreigners who are staying in Denmark. Then I think: what does the Social Democrats really want? I could last night in B.T. read the story of two North African men, one of whom has been sentenced to expulsion from Denmark five times, but they keep coming back and committing crime. Will the Social Democrats then try to come to our attention and say that we can at least look at those rules? Will you look at tightening up the rules for people who are repeatedly expelled from Denmark but who are coming back anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113454	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113456	It is not my fault to stand here and call for any negotiations with Mr. Marcus Knuth or anyone else. But I would like to say that I think some nuances are missing when trying to draw such a picture that the rules for permanent residence should be particularly relaxed at the moment. These are rules that we have jointly adopted before the last parliamentary elections; the rules on permanent residence are part of the paradigm shift. At the same time, and this was also mentioned earlier by the government, the government is currently working on a legislative proposal to increase the scope for expulsion. Initiatives have also already been taken which make it possible to withdraw citizenship, which is a bit on the same street if you commit serious crime in Denmark to the detriment of vital interests. So I actually think there's a lot going on. I also think that this is part of the picture, and I think that is something that sometimes disappears in the debate, that there are actually quite a lot of expulsions in the courts every year. On average, I think it is about 1 500 cases if we go back in the next few years, when we have actually managed to expel people who have committed serious crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113559	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113601	But the reality is that, unfortunately, you have to commit very, very serious crime in order to be convicted out of Denmark. There is the fact that we would like there to be a consequence for the very many who commit crime before they get a permanent stay or after a permanent stay. Then the rapporteur really stands here in great earnest and says that the rules for permanent residence are in order when it is the case that more than one in five Somalis during the period, as I remember, has been permanently resident from 2010 to 2015 after committing crime? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113630	Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113631	What I'm saying is that we've adopted these rules together. They are very tight and difficult to live up to. It is actually the type of stories that flood the press, i.e. that normal and well-functioning people find it difficult to live up to the rules. There are some balances to be found in this. Then I just think it's part of history that these rules have been adopted before the elections. Nothing's changed in them. At that time Conservatives were satisfied with them; now Conservatives are quite another place. However, I do not think we have had such a thorough account of where exactly commas should be moved in the rules that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113707	Thank you. Here you go to Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113711	Thank you. In Denmark we have a restaurant industry that screams for labour. We have a tourism industry that screams for labour. We have an agriculture that has a really hard time getting labour from Denmark. Common to the industries is that it is for a relatively low salary and it is hard work. Then the rapporteur stands here and uses the first of his rapporteur's speech to bless all the immigrants who have been inoculated here in the coronatide for an hour's salary of DKK 200-250. Does the rapporteur not think that it is not really our job as politicians, but that it is their job not to be delicate and to go out and occupy all the jobs that are? Because I do not believe that anyone, either in agriculture or in tourism, would deny them a cleaning job or a job in the stable if they applied just because they had a foreign name. Is this not about us actually sending a strong call to them to pull on their clothes now that they become unemployed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113821	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113822	Well, employment is far too low among large groups of people from the Middle East, and this applies to both women and men. But it is women in particular and from some in particular and that is why we have had this proposal, which we have now talked about a few times today, about a 37-hour duty. And I hope that some of the parties in the Folketing will support us in the effort to get some more of these women, who are being kept out of the labour market, to work. If you take a number of countries in the Middle East, it is seven out of ten women with backgrounds who are on public support and are on public support for years, according to the latest figures from Statistics Denmark. There I hope that there will be a majority in the Folketing that will help us make an effort aimed at these women so that they get out and get started, get their feet under their own table, get the opportunity to have some greater integrity around their finances, also if they are in a marriage, where it is a man who has determined how their daily lives should be and so their children see that here both mother and father go to work. It's good for these women, it's good for society, and it's good for those companies that lack manpower, as Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker mentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113925	Is there another brief comment? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113928	Yeah. So when the rapporteur acknowledges that there is therefore a group of people here who are not in employment and who we would like to see on the labour market, how does this relate to the fact that the government, in conjunction with the bourgeois parties, would like to lower the threshold for the labour migration that exists? Should we not start by getting those people into work that we already have in the country before we start importing even more immigrants with the problems that come with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128113956	It is only because unemployment is at a very low level now that it is realistic to adjust the threshold. That is also why the agreement provides a framework whereby if unemployment starts to rise, it will be suspended again. That's what we're talking about. I think it is if we reach 3.75%. unemployment, or if there is a very large number of people who suddenly start to take advantage of this scheme. It can therefore be said that it is fenced in and thus protects the low-paid labour market, and I think this is very important. But that does not change the fact that it is of course also important to get those who are not in work now, including those groups of women that we have talked about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114037	Thank you. Here you go to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114039	Thank you. I should like to return to what I had also said in my rapporteur's speech about the Holocaust which is now to be introduced into schools. I think that is actually fine, because I think you should know your story, absolutely. But I just think it's very, very narrow to point out only the vandalism of neo-Nazis against Jewish burial sites. It has been the annual date of the crystal night many times, and it is disgusting. It must be awful, no matter who it is to go out to a cemetery and see vandalism against your family or who it is that has passed away. But I think that research, which the government is now going to undertake, must also include something else, for example. Muslims living in the country's view of the conflict between Israel and its neighbours, for it is, in fact, a very large everyday chakane. And then I just don't understand why you can't figure out how to take Kurt Vestergaard's drawings into this whole class. We have had a debate on this, but that has not been mentioned at all. I think that's part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114154	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114156	I agree that it is a good thing that we have now decided what we have about the holocaust in education. It is natural, and I really hope that in the course of their schooling most schoolchildren will hear about the crimes that occurred during the holocaust. After all, negotiations have been convened with the Minister for Justice on the second part, that is to say the part about the Mohammed drawings and the use of Muhammad drawings in teaching. There is no doubt that if you are going to make a progress on the Mohammed crisis or on some of the tensions that have been experienced, as I remember, you already have, for example, 11 September, i.e. the events of 11 September and the terrorist attack there, with some of the material used in the public school, it is quite natural to teach the Mohammed drawings and use them in such a course. And there has been our position, of course, that it should not be something that teachers should do if they are afraid of their personal safety, which, unfortunately, there may be grounds for doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114258	Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114259	It's gonna be tough now, isn't it? But I just want to wait with excitement for how it lands, because I think it's a perfectly natural thing to bring it in. The Muslim drawings affect not only Denmark, they affect the whole world, so they affect the whole world just like the holocaust, everything that happened there now I do not have to mention it, but nevertheless with embassies, with flag burns and the fear that was in Denmark, also in a later terrorist attack. I have to say that I really want to call for it to be included in education in one way or another. I think it's a duty.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114336	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114337	As far as I understand, this is part of the negotiations that are going to take place with the Minister for Justice on freedom of expression, censorship and other matters. And I will support at any time a teacher or teacher at another educational institution, as in a course of the Muhammad crisis, of course also shows the Mohammed drawings as evidence. Otherwise, it will also lead to the rather bizarre idea that future generations should be told that there is a crisis that has taken place, but that we must not show what it sprang from, and then they themselves must google to find the pictures as if it were a particular suspect. So I think that is a natural part of the negotiations that must now take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114417	Thank you. The last person to sign up immediately is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114421	Thank you. I would like to return to the discussion or debate about Islamic culture and the influence of Islamic culture, among others. I would like to say a few words about violence, integration into a society that is democratic and so on. Alex Ahrendtsen, who portrays it as if New Citizens would open up further migration from Muslim countries, including Indonesia, which is not correct. When we want to lower the threshold, it is precisely for countries with which we know we have good experience, and therefore not for the MENAPT countries, and there we differ slightly from the government. I fully agree that when we speak Islamic culture, they are groups, and that is in general. There may be individual individuals in Denmark too who are doing well and who are well integrated. There may also be people who come here, who are Christian or have other cultural backgrounds, but that does not change the fact that when you open up migration from the countries where there are these problems, then the risk that the individual is part of that picture will be greater. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114525	No, not if it is in relation to, for example, the use of business schemes. Then you'll be living up to some pretty tight criteria to get here, and that's one of the crucial things in this context. Some of the negative consequences we see of immigration are, among other things, that of immigration. It is precisely the opposite of what will happen if you live up to the conditions of an occupational scheme because otherwise you do not talk about it. So, no, I don't quite recognize that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114552	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114553	But does the rapporteur thus say that all Muslims in Denmark are well integrated into our labour market, or vice versa: that everyone who is on the labour market is not Muslim or can be Islamic in their mindset? In other words, the rapporteur says that all Muslims who are on the Danish labour market respect gender equality, freedom and democracy, etc.? No, they don't. So if we lower the threshold for the countries with which we have problems, there is a greater risk that we will also import a larger proportion of people who do not respect our values, who do not have the same view of gender equality, democracy, freedom, etc. as we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114635	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114635-2	No, I say that employment is a necessary criterion for integration, but it is not an adequate criterion. It is clear that it also matters what values you carry with you, and how you look at your fellow citizens and society. Otherwise you can find some grotesque examples where a very well integrated citizen, who so innocently becomes unemployed, suddenly had to count as unintegrated, and vice versa Mohamed Atta from the 11th September attack suddenly had to count as well integrated because he was working up to the attack. Therefore: No, of course it is not so black and white that you can just say employment or non-employment is equal to integration or non-integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114710	Then I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we welcome the rapporteur of the Left, who is Mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128114733	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again taking the initiative in this important debate. This is, of course, a welcome opportunity to discuss everything that we think is important, especially in the light of the challenges posed by immigration. And, as I said, this is not the first time we have been standing here, and it underlines that this is an issue which is so dear to all of us. There are still major problems with immigration, and there can be no doubt about that. There are far too many immigrants on passive support, despite the fact that we have record low unemployment at home. Figures show that 55%. of non-Western immigrants aged 16-64 were in employment in the third quarter of 2021. Although it does not sound like much, it is actually the highest employment that has been measured for 13 years. And one can then reflect on the fact that such a low number can be the most positive number we have had. On the other hand, the same study by the Labour Movement's Employment Council shows that the proportion of 15-64-year-olds of Danish origin shows an employment rate of 74 per cent. And a comparison of the two figures says a little about and makes clear to us that there is still a great difference. Too many immigrants are on passive support in this country. Unfortunately, this confirms that among immigrants, particularly from non-western countries, who have not taken our country to heart, there is also a large group which continues to live in parallel societies, where Danish can act as a foreign language and where the norm is that father and mother do not go to work. The failure of integration is expensive for Denmark, because non-western immigration costs Danish taxpayers more than 33 billion. kr. a year. It is money that could have been spent by the community much, much better. That is why we also expect the people who come here to contribute to the community instead of challenging the values we have built our society around. The Scandinavian welfare state model, which has such a high level of service and such a large redistribution of goods, requires extreme solidarity in the labour market. This requires a very high work rate, both in men and in women. In the Left, we are concerned about taking care of Denmark and the Danish values. That is why we must make demands on the people who come here. Foreigners who challenge and perhaps even often ignore Danish values do not work in our society, and that makes it difficult to have a society like exactly what we have in Scandinavia. There are countries where it means less if there is a lower level of service in the public sector, because then this group is not noticed in the same way. But here it is. When you come to Denmark, you have to take our values fully into account, and that is not a negotiating situation. Our democratic conversation is based on the free word, and it is not open to discussion. Women and men have the same value, and it is not for discussion either. The Constitution is above any other law you may feel subject to, and it is not open to discussion either. In several immigrant environments there is no equality between men and women at least not in a sense we would call Danish. Women are often subject to social control by men, and they must not make their own choices. They can't have boyfriends or make their own money. It's wrong, and it's definitely unanswered. Recently, the annual citizens' survey showed that more than half of people from the MENAPT countries wanted to control their girls' entry to girls' own sexuality. It was the parents' responsibility... not the girls themselves. It's also terriblely unanswered. The study also shows that one out of every three people from the MENAPT countries does not think it is okay for their daughter to have a girlfriend with a different religious conviction than their own. We still have problems with integration, and immigration challenges our values. The Left is a liberal party that upholds the individual's personal freedom, and therefore we will in no way tolerate the existence of people in Danish society who are controlled or threatened because they have a desire to make their own choice and live the life they want. This is totally unacceptable and does not correspond to Danish standards and values. We have a strict immigration policy which places demands on foreigners who come here and who are consistent with those who do not want to join the Community. We also have room for those who want the community and the Danish values, and of course we need some more of them. I have to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Left and Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament believes that far too many immigrants and foreigners from non-western countries in particular have not taken Danish values into account, compared with a major crime problem among non-western immigrants in particular. The Folketing considers it worrying that the government has once again increased the benefits to unemployed immigrants, which undermines the incentive to enter employment. The Folketing urges the government to make demands on people who come here, and expects the government to make an extra effort to combat social control of women and children who do not have the freedom to live the life that is in accordance with Danish values. The Folketing is convinced that a strict and consistent immigration policy must be pursued which does not compromise our Danish customs and values. • V 32).
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115342	Thank you for that and I will just have the text of adoption written on behalf of the Left and Conservatives. There are a few brief comments, and the first one I would like to give the floor is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115356	Thank you. In the Radical Left we were over to visit DA the day before yesterday and there was the total 2-hour meeting on the system of amounts. They are frustrated that we cannot find each other here in the Chamber because, as they say, when you look at it from the outside, there is a large majority in favour of lowering the amount system. Companies around Denmark do not care whether the engineer is a Muslim in his spare time or not. When you look at the figures, the people from the MENAPT countries who are here on the amount regime today account for 5 per cent. of the total group which is here in the system of amounts. I find it incredibly depressing that the Left is ready to put a major economic reform at risk for poor 5%. What is the rapporteur's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115450	But the rapporteur's comment is that we have put forward a proposal for an amendment to the system of amounts, which we think is the right policy. And if the Radical Left had lived up to what they have said before and backed up our policy, then we would have had a proposal adopted that would have been much more beneficial to Denmark, and I think it is strange to let its own shortcomings go beyond another party. The questioner should then go to his own party and have a good talk about why the second best policy is supported when there is another alternative out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115531	Here you go, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115532	In the agreement that is being made now, there are a handful of elements which are also the active policy of the Left. So we really think it is amazing that the Left cannot go along and eat the little camels that are in that agreement. Let that be it. I would therefore like to make an invitation: I know that the rapporteur is running in the same great circle as me. We should not go around visiting some of the production companies which have benefited from the system of amounts and which have been pushing for us to lower the limit for a very long time, because they really want more engineers and more engineers. They want to be able to deliver on the orders they get in. So could it not be nice to get into the pragmatic reality and then look at what the amount system really is doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115611	Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115612	We can easily do this together. I have visited more than 100 manufacturing companies in West Jutland recently, and they are asking us to help them provide foreign labour as well. It is a very great wish out there, and it is our policy to resolve that problem, and that is why we have also put forward a proposal that is much better than what the Radical Left chose to support. I hope you're getting smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115645	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115647	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the rapporteur. I would actually like to ask the same question that I put to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The left is, at least still, the opposition's largest party. That is why I think we need to sort out what we mean in foreign policy when we use the different terms and concepts. A man and a woman came to Denmark in the 1970s; they have lived here since the time they had children, and their children have also had children. The third generation was born in Denmark, but does not have Danish citizenship. Do you regard them in the Left as foreigners or as Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115732	If they do not have Danish citizenship, then they are foreigners living in Denmark. If their parents had acquired Danish citizenship and had had children in Denmark, the children would have been Danish citizens. They have an opportunity to become Danish citizens. There we have established objective criteria which can be applied on the basis of which they can be applied. But until then they are foreigners living in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115754	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115757	In the Free Greens, we believe that they are Danish because they were born here. The fact that some legislation is so cumbersome that you do not automatically acquire Danish citizenship does not make them foreigners. But the reason I ask the question is that 440,000 citizens living here in Denmark do not have the right to vote. They are spectators of democracy. And one in ten children born in Denmark are born without a Danish citizenship. Once again, I am well aware that we do not agree that they should automatically have citizenship, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on the question: will it not be a democratic problem when this group of 440,000 citizens grows and when one in ten children does not get it? So, in a moment we have 700,000, 800,000, 1,000,000 people who do not have Danish citizenship. Is that not a problem for democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115837	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115840	In principle, it is always a problem for a democratic society that you have a large group of citizens staying in a place where they cannot influence the political process it will always be. But you have to look at what the causes are. The reasons are, for example, that we have been a country where many people have sought shelter or have come to, and many of them have not wanted to become Danes, and therefore their children have not become Danes either. These things must be taken into account in such a calculation. Some of them aren't someone who has to be here permanently. It's someone who has to go back and rebuild the countries they come from. And it would be really strange if, because of their parents' temporary shelter here, they had turned their children into Danish citizens along the way if they really had to go back to Syria, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115923	Thank you. The next one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Spencer. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128115928	Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left quite rightly said that many companies do not care about the background of their employees. That is, of course, true. My question to the rapporteur of the Left is: is it not better for Danish society to have foreigners with a Western background and a background that allows itself to adapt to Danish society, given the enormous problems we have had with many citizens with a Muslim background? So would it not be better to completely drop the limit for which the Left is banners?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120011	Sir. Mads Birded, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120012	If you look at these figures for how you behave when you come to Denmark, we can see that those who come to Denmark to seek shelter are included in a completely different crime statistics than those who come to Denmark because there is a job that stands and waits for them. There are some groups of people that we find very difficult to integrate into Danish society, and therefore it is not the Left's wish that we should make business arrangements or anything else that makes it easier for those groups to come to Denmark. But we have to distinguish between these groups, and there is a very, very big difference between whether you come to Denmark for a job or whether you come up here because you are looking for a better life or on the run from something that burns at home. We have to stick to that distinction, because we can see from the statistics that those groups behave very differently. But Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen then has a point, because we cannot just open up other cultures that are very different from that in Denmark, and then let them into large numbers, even if they are not over-represented in crime statistics, because of course there is also something called cohesion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120119	Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120121	Coherence, that is absolutely right, and it also depends on cultural values, and the great schism of the last 30 years in the discussion has been how to weigh cultural values against capital values. That is quite crucial, which is why I would really like to hear how the Left sees that priority and that balance. What's more important? The Danish cultural values or the Danish capital values? You have to take a position on that. In the Danish People's Party it is quite clear that cultural values weigh heavier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120200	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120201	If I'm gonna follow sir... Alex Ahrendtsen's thought experiment and imagine that it was a choice, that it was one or the other, then of course the cultural values are the most important. If you lose your nation, your Danishness, you lose the whole foundation for what we are. But in the Left we believe that this is not one thing or the other, but something that is in balance and can be in good balance with each other. I am convinced that many of the people who also come from very different cultures get a lot out of getting to know Danish values. Of course, we should not challenge our cohesion with that policy so much that there is nothing to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120239	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund next.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120242	Thank you. Now we have discussed the limit of money in part of this debate on value and, most recently, the rapporteur from the Radical Left has been stamped into that part of the debate, and it is almost clear from the speeches made by the radical rapporteur, as if the system that we in the bourgeois parties have put forward would be worse for Danish industry than the regime that the government with the Red Support Parties has put forward and which has been endorsed. The fact is that, with our proposal, we are putting forward a system whereby Danish companies will have access to more foreign labour, on the one hand, and ensuring that the kind of foreigners with which we already have problems, on the other hand, we limit, and we do so by saying: this applies only to countries which have visa-free access to Europe under the Schengen Agreement and which are then also on the investment list presented by the VLAK government in 2018. So in this way we ensure that we both solve the problem in relation to our Danish companies, but also take care of Danish culture and our cohesion. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120350	I love these questions where I just have to nod consent from up here, and I will.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120401	When I ask about benefits, it is because this question goes to the government, and it is of course remarkable that we have a government that will lower the threshold for the MEAPT countries after both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and also the rapporteur have stood here and said that the number matters. I fully understand that if you have a job, then it is easier to integrate into our Danish society. This just does not mean that we have the same view of democracy and equality as we do. Nor does it mean that it is as easy to get rid of these people if they commit crime as, for example. a rape in Denmark, as it is when we talk about people coming from countries that want to take back their own fellow citizens. Can the rapporteur also confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120438	Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120439	At least I think it's very important when we talk about these things, and it was Mr. Rasmus Stoklund also mentioned earlier that we kind of split up these things. There are people we want to get here on business schemes, and then there are people we help because they seek shelter. These are two different groups, and we must deal with them with the challenges that each of them has to give us and the challenges that they have to face. And it is clear that the challenges of economic burden for Danish society, cohesion, crime and everything else are far over-represented for those who seek shelter in Denmark and come from the MEAPT countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120520	Thank you. The next person to ask for the floor is the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats. Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120523	Yes, sir. Mads Birded, we are some people who have noticed that the Left is gradually nodding a lot to what New Citizens say, so I guess it's just a picture of the state of things. I now consider myself to be a bourgeois-liberal, and we would, as a starting point, like to have a bourgeois-liberal prime minister after the next elections. We know that the Left is at least wooing that post, but then the big question comes from here. Now we have seen a Left that has left in the early election campaign the last time in 2019 to refuse to do anything at all with New Citizens' Party that was what the then President of the Left, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, said and now I notice time and time again that the Left is making musketeered with New Citizens' Party, and congratulations to New Citizens' Party. It is fantastic that you have as well a hold on the Left and Conservatives as you have, but you have so well a hold on them that it is a musketeered: you come together, you go together and they are completely impossible to negotiate with. That is why I should like to know whether we want to form a government on the mandates of the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120645	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120646	I'd like to answer that. I would also like to pretend that my opinion on that particular question was crucial, but it is not, and I have not answered that question either. This could be a good way to feed my own escalating megalomaniac, but I cannot answer it, nor do I have any knowledge of what the answer to that question is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120708	Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120710	Then I would hope that Mr. Mads Fuglede will pass the question on to his President, because bourgeois Denmark is entitled to receive an answer to that question. What kind of policy can we expect? Is it a government to be formed on the basis of two parties that want Denmark out of the European Community and do not think that international conventions should be respected? That's pretty important now that we're talking value policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120739	Now I have had many negotiations with New Citizens and appreciate the negotiations we have had and also appreciate the honesty that exists when we are deeply divided, and we often are on the international issue of EU-related issues. But in much of what we have discussed here today, we are so in agreement with New Citizens, so we have no problem standing shoulder to shoulder with them here, just as I can see that the Christian Democrats almost always vote with the Enhedslisten and the Free Greens when it comes to politics in this area, and there I do not think it is because the Christian Democrats have deposited their political soul on the very extreme left in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120825	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120829	At the risk of further talking into the greatness of the rapporteur's madness, I should just like to ask him. Mads Birded about something a little bit in the same direction, but a little more concrete. When Mrs Inger Løjberg was Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, she decided on behalf of the Left Government that Denmark should not take quota refugees. Then came a new majority, fortunately for that. We then decided jointly, the Social Democrats, the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, that Denmark should retake quota refugees. If the Left gets power, will Denmark still have to take quota refugees, or is that the end of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128120909	If the Left gets power, it is still our ambition that we get back into the quota refugee system. We think that this is much more fair and a much better way of distributing refugees than the other system, where it is the business model of human traffickers that you follow when you treat those who show up in Denmark. We always talk about it as if they show up on the border, but they rarely do; they show up in Denmark and seek asylum. And in order to get there, we have set out some criteria that we think are reasonable: the influx must be controlled and we must be much better at integrating them into our labour market, but also generally in our society. And one of the parameters we have looked at a lot is that the work rate among the women who come to Denmark is getting higher. It is no secret that at the end of the time when Inger Løjberg was Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, we felt that we were approaching a place where we thought it was certainly possible to get back into the quota system we would like to enter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121018	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121019	Does this also mean that, in addition to the United Nations quota refugee system, the Left will come to power, as I hope the Left will not do for many reasons, but let us now say that the Left will come to power and will work for a fairer distribution of refugees in Europe? Sir. Mads Fuglede knows just as well as I do that it is the countries that have the external borders of Europe that are lifting the greater part of the burden of the refugee crisis that we are in the middle of. In fact, in Denmark we do not take very many refugees, neither quota refugees nor spontaneous asylum seekers. So if the Left is open to the quota system, is it only for quota refugees, or is this also true within the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121103	Well, I think Mrs Rosa Lund knows the answer. That is the United Nations quota refugee system to which I replied. We have no desire for a European scale to be drawn up, and we also see it as political utopia to imagine that there should be agreement on this within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121121	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121124	Thank you. Well, I know Mr. Knox. Mads Birded as a man who really understands popularity, culture, coherence and all that is essential, especially in a country like Denmark which, unlike other countries, like Mr. Mads Birded knows well, is not an immigrant country. That's why it's interesting when Mr. Mads Fuglede's party offers relief from immigration policy, among other things. for some of the countries where there are many cultural wrestlings. These could be people from India, for example, whom I understand that Mr. Mads Fugledes party in a game together with New Citizens, Conservatives and LA wants to make it much easier for amounts to come to Denmark. I know, sir. Mads Birded is a wise man, and there it might be that he would take us into consideration the considerations he and his party have made about all the culturally determined problems that are, in India: oppression of women, violence against certain castes, violence against religious groups, etc. How will he prevent it, when at the same time he will lower the limit to what I think is equivalent to 30,000 kr. gross per month?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121226	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121227	When you look at the people coming in through the limit, they're actually across religious beliefs and other less criminals than the average dancer. So when we have to make an effort to deal with the challenges that come with the cultural clashes that have been caused by immigration from cultural circles that are different from ours, and especially when they have at the same time been between a Danish Christian culture and Muslim immigration, then it is just the wrong place to focus. It is not the 50 programmers from India who are challenging it is elsewhere that the problem is facing. It is also people who are here as long as there is a job for them as long as there is no basis for them to be here. When it lapses, their association with Denmark also disappears via the workplace they then leave again. So we have to distinguish between these two groups. It is very important that we do this and focus where there is a real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121336	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121338	Well, I think so, sir. Mads Birde is right if we talk about these famous heart surgeons and brain specialists, and now Mr. Mads Birded programmers. But when you're so far down the limit, we're talking $30,000. Before taxes, I guess that's not the group we're talking about anymore. And Mr. Mads Fugler didn't say that the further down, but comes, in monthly wages, the more will you also see people coming with a cultural baggage that doesn't belong to the top layer of society, but perhaps where violence against women could also be one's own spouse • is a completely common part of everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121416	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121417	I really have no fear that there would be such some kind of higher caste in India or anywhere else that has a better morale than others. I believe that what is important is that there are some people here who could benefit in Denmark as programmers, for example, or other skilled work and I am quite sure that we will experience, as we have experienced with others who have entered into the system of amounts, that there will be a minimum of challenges with them in this respect, that they may have time at all to commit something criminal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121455	The last inscribed to short remarks is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121459	I was right in the reading room next to it for a moment, and then I came in, and then I thought, 'That can't be right.' Actually, it was sir. Jens Rohde, who began, seems to me to return to something in the past when there were some parties on which one could not base one's votes. I thought we'd come a long way, I'd say. It surprises me, and it really does make me a bit of a shame and perhaps a tiny bit of anger or sadness. Because you can only see in this debate today that at least most of the parties praise the Danish People's Party for the efforts that have been made on this particular issue. I'd just like to get a confirmation from Mr. Kim. Mads Birded that it is unheard of that there are still parties in the heads of some politicians that are democratically elected, on which one does not want to base one's vote. Well, I'm deeply surprised that any members of parliament can get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121558	Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121559	I have had a great interest in Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's political life, and I think it is an incredibly important political career to learn more about. One thing I have been very aware of is that, for a long time, motions for resolutions were tabled by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard or by members of the party, with the wish that they should become legislative proposals at some point. They laughed at them, they were rude, and it wasn't something you could take seriously down here. But much of what was then tabled as a motion for a resolution is no longer tabled as a motion for a resolution, because now it is a common policy. All of a sudden, it's not something we wrinkle our noses at. That is why I think it is very important to stay too good to make such distinctions in Danish politics. They are artificial, and Denmark would have been a worse country if much of what Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard had worked for early on was not today generally integrated into Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121709	For that. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121710	Thank you. It wasn't to get praise, I said it, but thank you for that. It was just from a democratic point of view that I wanted to say that all parties are equally valid when they are elected to the Folketing, and I think it applies all around. Now I think it was particularly new citizens who were affected, but I also heard that we were used in the argument. It annoys me, sir. Jens Rohde isn't here. He's probably coming back. But thank you for the rose, that is not why I asked, but that is why it is being applauded anyway. It was actually just on the basis of the democratic basic principles, as Mr. Mads Birded is in complete agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121750	I fully agree with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121757	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. Then we'll skip it this time, and then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128121818	Thank you. We will take this question debate on foreign policy shortly after the Foreign Minister has given an interview to Berlingske, where he among other things. has established that he manages Denmark's foreign policy more with his brain than with his heart. I am very sympathetic to the fact that in the interview the Minister is trying to keep the balance in the many dilemmas with which the immigration policy is filled, but as my own pen is soon to read in the same newspaper, I believe that the contradiction between the brain and the heart of the minister is false. It is most likely that he believes that he is responsible for a so-called tight but not crazy foreign policy. The Minister's policy may be strict, but I really believe that he can see, even if he is honest himself, that it is not madness-free either. It can be seen when there are people who have contributed to society for 40 years, who cannot obtain citizenship because they received a quite lenient sentence for a foolishness at 20 years of age. It can be seen when we send Syrians back to an uncertain future in Syria or perhaps more realistic for a meaningless existence at the exit centre's intermediate position, because the asylum system has also broken down here. And it is seen when people who have had a Danish passport for years suddenly get it taken away, as we see in the so-called passages. It is the result of decades when Danish immigration policy has been reduced by a majority in the Folketing to a question of whether one is in favour of more or less foreigners. When everything is done in this way, it becomes impossible to decide on each case with a view to the necessary nuances. And let us be honest: it is a division that we are all guilty of. The right wing was guilty of it when they were about to separate Mint from his family. Even the backlands of the Left and of the Danish People's Party had to refrain from that crazyness. And the left is guilty of this when we say, on the one hand, that yes, the number is important, but on the other hand, sometimes leads to a policy as if the number does not matter. I sometimes dream that several parties discover how liberating it can be to give up that fake dichotomy and instead look at each case in the foreign debate without biased attitudes. I know that the debate is sometimes a little too inflamed for it to be realistic, but yet I hope that in the coming years we can bury the most crazy elements of Danish immigration policy; that we can activate in the heart when there is a young person who is terrified of being sent back to an unstable dictatorship and give him the protection he needs; that we can activate the brain when we look at the enormous challenges that the asylum system faces, and not just reject all attempts by the European Union to protect its own borders such as racism and isolationism, when we now know that it is primarily about having control over who comes into our countries. I have to admit, sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left nuanced the debate here on Danish immigration policy and European border controls in the media not so terribly long ago, I thought: that is really brave and strong, that is especially because it did not seem to be to please some voters, but just because he meant it. I must also say that I really would like to see the same courage from the Social Democrats and the Right a little more often. Why is it so rare for a Conservative or DF to look at a blatantly unfair personal case or a crazy tightening up and say: Friends, I know we must pursue a strict immigration policy, but what is simply too crazy is right, the left is right. Well, we're also nearing the end of my speech, and I'd better say that when I've had the focus that I've had in my speech here, it's because DF raises this query debate in every single collection, and I think we can have this debate until the sun burns out, if no more people in this thing take a personal break with the inner tighter or the inner relax and definitively say: No, I won't reduce as important a question as the choice between two poles. With those words, I have a text for adoption, I have to read it out, and it is from quite a few parties. It is self-evident from SF, but also from RV, EL, KD and ALT, and it reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an immigration policy must be pursued so that the integration task can be handled and no parallel societies arise. All citizens in Denmark must respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles as enshrined in law. The Folketing also notes that the government and the Folketing must work to establish communities that underpin democratic values as an alternative to the anti-democratic and extremist environments that try to undermine democracy. • V 34).
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122348	Thank you. We will just get the text of the adoption to the Legal Secretariat so that we can have it distributed (Carl Valentin It has happened). It's done. Thank you. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122359	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'd say it was a very refreshing speech. It was incredibly good to hear SF talk integration up and nuance the debate. Overall, I thought it was really, really good. There were some details that I did not agree with, but it was a good speech. It is not to create an awkward atmosphere now, but it is not very long ago that the Prime Minister stood on Parliament's platform while I was down there asking about an anti-racist action plan, and the Prime Minister said: I cannot stand action plans. We kept going, and we kept going, and now we get an anti-racist plan of action. Free Greens are happy about that. It has been a matter for us and we have fought hard to press the government and its support parties. My question is: if now or when we do not know how it is going to be prepared this anti-racist action plan, will the SF focus on the ethnicity criterion that is in the ghetto law, that is to say, in relation to looking at that part too, in relation to whether it is discriminatory, and whether there is anything racist about that part? Is that something we are considering when we are working on the anti-racist action plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122512	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122514	No, I really don't think that's what's going to be the focus here. What is, after all, the whole starting point for making this action plan is primarily about the survey we get from racism in Denmark. Then I think we should actually draw up the action plan on the basis of the conclusions reached in relation to how racism is widespread in Denmark. I believe that some of what becomes central will be to look at the excesses of minorities in public spaces and the violence that exists, hate crimes, etc. It can also be bullying in schools that are racistly motivated etc. I think there are many things to address in connection with this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122601	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122602	Free Greens and here I would like to address the Prime Minister and the Minister for Integration • will be happy to come to negotiations, and we will be happy to provide our input on how we can make a solid and comprehensive anti-racist action plan. In conclusion, I would like to ask the rapporteur from the SF: is it the SF's view that when you are born in Denmark you should automatically have Danish citizenship? I am not sure where the SF is in that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122630	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122632	If you are born and raised in Denmark and are here until you are 18 years old, yes, we believe that you should have Danish citizenship. Because if you've been in the country since you were born and throughout your childhood and youth, you're Danish. It would be quite absurd to have to start, as some people end up doing, putting up with the fact that it is actually another country that is your home country, despite the fact that you may not even speak the language there, and despite the fact that you feel like a Dane. So if you've been in Denmark since you were born until you're 18 years old, then you have to have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122707	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122709	Thank you. Well, that's right, and I think, sir. Carl Valentin looked a little tired when he mentioned that this debate actually comes every January. I promise you, if I have anything to say at all, it will come in the future. But I would like to hear about one thing that I have done to the other debates. Immigration is, of course, referred to as a very, very positive element from the socialist point of view; I do not agree with that. I do not think that immigration as such has contributed to anything positive in Danish society. And when I pressed Mr. Carl Valentin in an earlier debate, he mentioned among other things. hip-hop culture as a good element, and we laughed so little at that. It may be, but it's a little narrow. Did Mr. Carl Valentin in the year that has passed, found other things where immigration itself contributes to something good in Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122800	Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122801	I'm colored by loving hip-hop, and when you love hip-hop culture, you can't help but notice all the minority dancers who make good hip-hop music. But of course I have seen people from around the world contribute in other ways to Danish society. In fact, I would like to ask how Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard can overlook what these people are contributing. I can't take a bus, a 5C, or show up in the local kiosk or go to the doctor or be grafted, or what do I know, without seeing lots of wonderful people contribute in the labour market, being part of our society. I have also been enriched by a lot of individuals with whom I have attended school, in high school with, been at work. We even have people here in the Folketing who are of ethnic origin other than Danish. I think there are plenty of people from other countries who have come here and contribute positively to Danish society, and I find it difficult to understand how one can completely overlook it. Actually, I think that's pretty amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122907	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122908	I almost know the answer, and Mr. Carl Valentin has also tried earlier. Individuals, yes! That's not what I'm talking about at all. Because from time immemorial too, cultural personalities from all countries and such a thing have certainly contributed individually, but immigration as such is not positive. That's what Mr. Carl Valentin's coming with us. He's out of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122942	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128122943	No, it is not, because you cannot talk about immigration without also talking about the individuals that this group of people is made up of. If we are to talk about this in a more general way, I must also say that I actually believe that immigration into our society is also helping to make us more open-minded, more understanding of our world. The fact that we meet foreign cultures in our everyday lives, which other people have also embraced, means that we have a better understanding, not only for the country in which we live, but also for the world in which we live, and that is how I think it is positive. It is not because I do not recognise the many problems associated with immigration as well. I think I've talked about that too several times from this very chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123019	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. Would the rapporteur like to speak out? Carl Valentin Yes, you bet. Thank you. Then we should welcome the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123049	Thank you so much. Where'd the audience go? Maybe they should go to lunch. Well, then it'll be quick and easy. Whatever the case, I would like to take a moment to congratulate both the Minister and the Social Democrat rapporteur on their speeches, which in both cases I think were incredibly nuanced. The SF rapporteur also made an excellent and honest speech, from which I was really very inspired. So it's a pleasure. And it is, among other things. It is also because foreign policy has long been one of the major political battlegrounds where the debate gets under way and which fills in the commentary trails. Usually we connect battlegrounds with Roman gladiators and arenas where it can go wildly and where the mood is excited, but where the result of the fight does not necessarily lead to anything. This is also felt at times in the political arena when foreign policy is discussed. And this is how it feels in the last few weeks, when we in the Danish Parliament are so close to facilitating the recruitment of foreign labour for Danish companies, as we almost all agree that the limit should be lowered. Even this massive pressure from all Danish business organisations or the desperate call from the mayors of the municipalities cannot shake the need to mix labour market and business policy with foreign policy, as has happened now. Specifically, we are currently locked in a staring competition, and I would like to call for us to put the immigration policy aside just for a while and use our common sense and agree on how to lower the threshold for foreign labour. A new estimate from the NB-Economy shows that only 5 per cent. of the people who are in Denmark on the amount scheme come from Muslim countries. And I simply lack words for how absurd it is that the bourgeois parties are blocking a major economic reform that can help Danish business and help Denmark just to get rid of the 5%. Instead of austerity or relaxation, foreign policy and the debate on foreigners should be about common sense, as Mr. Carl Valentin also mentioned it. Let us look at the individual elements of foreign policy. We fully recognise that a majority of Danes would like to have a strict policy on foreigners, and we in the Radical Left, in fact, think that that is funny; perhaps that is surprising for some. We can make demands, and that is quite appropriate, for example. to repatriate deeply criminal aliens and be very firm in the face of social control. But I'd like to arrest the story that 80%. The European Community has a special role to play in this area. People generally cannot understand that Danish and foreign couples cannot live out their love here in Denmark, and that they are forced to move to Germany or Sweden for a few months to be able to return to Denmark under EU law. People also find it difficult to understand that young people who have grown up in Denmark and are fully integrated and who have done nothing illegal and who insist on training must live on temporary residence permits in what is linked to their own home country. DR's series of themes and the current history of Tajma Mehic from Horsens bear witness to this. I think, for example. Not that 80%. of the Danes are opposed to a fixed track scheme for this group. We think it would be common sense that if you were born and raised in Denmark, you should be able to obtain citizenship when you are 18 years old. These are two key areas where common sense is lacking in legislation. We also want the area of foreigners to move from a battleground to a common sense place. It is common sense to help Danish children in Syria, including the small last group that is unhappyly stuck down there. It is also common sense not to chase Syrian refugees in their lives by cancelling their residence permit before there is real peace in Syria. It is common sense to be part of the United Nations quota system. If we look at integration, it will succeed in many places. I also think that an excellent report from the Danish Knowledge Centre for Integration testified to this; it appeared just before Christmas. Integration has succeeded in many places, and we must pay tribute to this, but we must not be blind to the real challenges of integration that we have in some environments. We can also easily get more people in jobs and education, and we can easily make demands. We need more solutions and less polarisation. This is how the Radical Left sees a strong Denmark in an international society. Finally, I also need to mention a very topical matter for my own party. Elif Demir Gökce, the newly elected representative of the Radical Left in Brøndby, has spoken very problematically about the assassination of the French teacher who taught the Mohammed drawings. In the Radical Left's parliamentary group and in the radical hinterland, we strongly reject her statements which are not compatible with radical politics. Not least, she's passing on a conspiracy theory about the murder. It is deeply, deeply problematic when elected representatives actively participate in the spread of post-actual lies, no matter which party or lie is involved. We, as a party, of course take care of that internally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123613	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123618	Thanks for a good speech. I very much agree with Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. I don't think there's 80% either. the people who agree with the policy being pursued because when its consequences in real life to real people are revealed to them, most people are shaking their heads. So far, so good. We're just not that many people have that perception of reality. So the question to the Radical Left is: what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123651	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123652	That's a very good question. I would like to entertain on this Friday that my own mother, who is a member of the Social Democratic Party, also did not know about the radical Left's policy on foreigners, although she has been the mother of the Radical Left's rapporteur on foreigners for six months. So it's up to you to talk to the people about what this really has to do with consequences. And you often don't see that until you experience it close to your own body... a classmate or a daughter-in-law... when you suddenly sit at the family party and talk about what these effects are. But I think it is a joint effort, and that is something where we have all sorts of platforms to communicate it on. It's just about real people and the effect of these things, which is why it's also important that we look out for those areas where we've tightened too much. But basically, the Radical Left agrees that immigration policy must be strict and that demands must be made, but there are therefore some places where we have gone too far and where it is going crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123747	Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123749	But just as Mrs Pernille Vermund has put V and K in a leglock, the Radical Left might consider doing the same thing. After all, we have heard the radical leader talk a great many times about pulling the curtain away under the existing government, unless there are some other results on the table. Whether it has just been in foreign affairs, I don't know, but one might not consider with threats of overthrowing the government, not how to put a little more pressure on our good minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123826	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123827	I really don't think we can push more than we do. There are many things happening in these negotiating rooms, and there are also large letters often and often. One of the things I would like to sign for here, as this may give me the opportunity to do, is that precisely because bad stories have been out in the press about Danish-international couples, the Left has acknowledged that during Inger Løjberg they might have gone too far, and have reached out to the minister and said that we are now going to have a look at the rules of union in relation to marriages for Danish-international couples. So from time to time pressure from both the political and the media and the people will succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123907	Thank you. Time's up. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128123912	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for addressing this issue in his speech with a Gökce, which has to be said to have some very worrying points of view here about Samuel Paty. What I cannot help thinking about, of course, is what the rapporteur is thinking about, namely that such people with this, yes, Muslim starting point, are coming into the rapporteur's party. This isn't the first time we've seen it. Well, I remember how a Mrs Mona Sheikh was a member of the Radical Left, while she did not want to distance herself from the death penalty and other criticisms, among others. of homosexuals; I remember a Mrs Sherin Khankan, who was also a member of the Radical Left, who did not want to distance herself from Sharia, and I just wonder if Mrs Kathrine Olveday has given any thought to how it might be that these very radicalised types come into the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124011	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124013	Now, like we do, I think we see it in other left-wing parties. At least in the field of foreign policy, we see that a more humane approach to foreign policy is being drawn to it, but it is the case that when one comes, we also demand that religion never trump the fundamental democratic. And that is why some people are on the Radical Left who are leaving the Radical Left again. We have seen that, historically. They are in for a little sniffing, and then they find out that there is still a little too liberal for them, and then they leave again. So it's kind of the historical movement we've seen. I would also like to say that, contrary to the rapporteur's own party, we have, for example, the right to vote in local elections. no exclusion clause. You can't just call these people and tell them to leave the party, so we'll have the conversation, and if it turns out in the course of the conversation that we can't meet, then they'll have to find out what they're doing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124109	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124110	Yes, but it is not people who just sign up and then find out that the humanist basis of confession is incompatible with Sharia, that is, it is people who are elected as city councils, elected as candidates for parliament. These are very prominent people, I would say to Mrs Kathrine on Saturday, Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday, and I think it might call a little more of a reflection on whether the Radical Left has too naive an approach to some of these people, who perhaps therefore regard the Radical Left as a completely open Trojan horse to be used, to get in to Islamise Danish society. Could that be the kind of thing that is behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124148	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124149	In fact, I think this is a very relevant and interesting question, but I also think historically that we can see that, although we are sensitive and I think all parties are, because it is the electoral associations that choose their candidates for both the city council and the Parliamentary Parliament, it is also about what the electoral association chooses from its approach; so that there is a democratic and free and open approach that must be in a democracy. That being said, it is not the case that I believe that, for example, there is no need for the Commission to take a decision on this matter. The whole radical parliamentary group has ended up being a Trojan horse in the Folketing, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124224	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124226	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur. There has been a debate for a long time about whether the Radicals have moved forward or whether they have not moved forward, and then the Radicals go out and say: we have not moved forward, that has always been the case, you just have not known. Then the board comes and says something else, and then the Zenia Stampe faction comes and says it's not like that, etc. etc. Let's get this straight once and for all, because you have to say that you didn't hear Mr. Morten Østergaard say what the rapporteur has just said, namely that immigration policy must be strict. I am 35 years old and have been following the Radicals for many, many years, even in my young days, and this is the first time I have heard a radical rapporteur say that immigration policy must be strict. So can we not get clarification from the rapporteur: have we moved to the right? Is that the right thing to say? Are we moving towards a tighter policy on foreigners, or are we not moving towards a tighter policy on foreigners?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124327	Kathrine illdag, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124328	I am glad that people are gradually beginning to realise what the Radical Left's immigration policy is about and what it has been about for some years. In fact, I also think I can find a quote from Morten Østergaard, where he says that immigration policy must be strict and that there must be demands at least. But the times when we haven't been in favour of it are when it's been crazy. For example: down there, where I live, in Vordingborg Municipality, has been the whole fight for Lindholm. I'm glad we stopped it. It is good that we no longer need to legislate on pigmeat in day-care institutions. All these actions I understand in some way well the intention of "and they may come from a desperate place," but after all, we will not end up going that far. We find some intermediate station, as the SF's rapporteur also says, where we can take those elements that are in the Aliens Act and then ask: where is it no longer meaningful for us and for the people? That's where we want to go. Then I cannot actually quite place whether it is tight or lax or what is, and I do not really care about that, because I would like to take a third position where common sense prevails.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124427	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124428	That's a good answer. I would say that was a good answer. I only have one more question, so I can't follow it up. I have another question I would like to ask, so we will have to take that debate later. Is it the case that, in the Radical Left, if you point to a blue block, you say that you say, for example. accept that the sensible foreign policy one stands for does not consist in such a constellation, because there is the policy of the DF and the New Citizens and for that matter the policy of the Conservatives on foreigners that one is involved in? Is that what they say? Can the rapporteur confirm this and preferably answer either yes or no, so that we understand what the position is?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124511-2	No, we are never going to accept New Citizens' and DF's immigration policy, and we are not going to go into a government constellation where they are the carrying mandates. We have also refused to do so. So that will be the short answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124522	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124527	Thank you. I'm also going to go a little further with this radical councilman. Because it is true that it is not just a coincidence that joins, and then it may not go anymore, because it is someone who sits in a town council, and that is crazy. What I understand is that the President of the Radical Left will now have a cup of coffee and a serious conversation with Gökce. That must be called dialogue coffee. But this is a huge problem for the Radical Left, a really big problem. What if Gökce, as she is called, now I only mention that part of the name again because the President of the country does so, says: I will stay because I have those positions and I am elected for the Radical Left, and I can vouch for that, and my party must do so too. The thing about personal attitudes when you sit in a city council and you are so radically radical, so that half of it can be enough, I think it is a real problem. I am not actually saying this to tease, I am saying it because I think it is deeply serious that people like this are being included in the Radical Left and cannot even exclude them. There could be more of that type.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124636	Kathrine illdag, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124637	I would like to give a little insight into our national meetings, because we often discuss whether we should have these exclusion clauses, because we've had this type of people inside before. But so far we have solved it in the conversation and in what one can translate, that we have ways of getting people talked into a radical discourse. To what I would like to say with a dialogue coffee, this is more like comparing with a public conversation, I would say, and Elif has also been out to apologize and I hope that I have learned something in this process, both in terms of how to deal with a little aggressive media and how to deal with your political messages as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124722	Thank you. Remember, you say both first name and last name. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124727	I'll do that. But has she been out or will she come out and tell you that she recognizes a hundred percent that Muslims kill, they kill, they execute, because that's what he's done, this guy who murdered Samuel Paty. He shouted allahu akbar, which means that Allah is great, so the Muslim god, and he subsequently looked up a picture on Twitter of Paty's cut head with the text: In the name of Allah, the most magnificent, the most merciful. To Macron, the leader of the infidels: I executed one of your hellhounds who had dared to belittle Muhammad. Muslims don't kill? Has she been wrong or what, and will she say that she was wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124812	She has been very wrong. Of course he is a Muslim and confesses to the Muslim faith, I do not think there can be any doubt about that. We are also fairly shocking about it in the overall radical group. When you hear the interview with her and read what she writes about it, she's also talking about that it's not her Islam. After all, there are huge numbers, millions of peaceful Muslims who worship Islam quite peacefully. So that way, I can understand what she means, but she can't say he's not a Muslim.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124843	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124849	Thank you. I've got, like, sir. Sikandar Siddique is also a little difficult to understand what the Radical Left's immigration policy is really about. And that is both in relation to the fact that we in the Enhedslisten have seen Radicals as our closest allies in the field of foreigners for many years, and that one can as well get the coffee in the throat when one reads that the Radical Left has no problem with entering into a government with the Left party, which in the last ten years has been responsible for a very strict immigration policy, just as we also got the coffee a little wrong when we read that the Radical Left was in favour of border fences now around Europe. That is where Mrs Kathrine said on Wednesday herself that there should be no such thing, sir. Martin Lidegaard said otherwise, and that is how one can disagree with one's party. So I would just like to ask Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday: shall we have rain around Europe, or shall we not?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128124946	Yeah, and that's what I said back then. I don't know what it is. I told you not to. But that must be done as long as there are doors in that fence, because there must still be an opportunity for asylum to be sought. We are obliged to give the opportunity to do so. However, if you imagined that this was going on under orderly conditions and that Frontex actually got the powers that they need from a European Union that is currently cowardly sticking its tail between its legs and letting the individual states take care of this themselves, then we will not have that chaos. Then we will not get what we are seeing right now, when country after country breaks human rights by force and violence and where we see these terrible situations. So you could imagine having a controlled external border, and then I don't care if it's drones, fences, guarding, or whatever the hell I'm sorry, you can't say that whatever it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125046	It is fine to correct yourself, because you cannot say that. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125047	Thank you. At least now I think I got a little bit smarter. Then I would like to ask the Radical Left again: do you think that we will have a more humane immigration policy by the Prime Minister's name Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, that the support parties are called the Danish People's Party, New Citizens' Party, and perhaps the Minister for Foreign Affairs is Mr. Marcus Knuth? Are we getting a more humane foreign policy from it, or are we getting a more humane foreign policy from having a government that has the support parties SF and Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125115	Now I do not quite know whether I can ask counter-questions, but I shall put it rhetorically: how does the rapporteur himself feel about introducing a more humane immigration policy? I know that we have moved some things, and I would like to credit for that, and that is one of them. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal, because we have put pressure on each other and there are some elements, but that is certainly not enough. After all, nothing has really moved on in general. I would say that the agreement reached last week does not leave much hope. When it is the case that you go into a major economic agreement and say that discrimination is more important than economic reform, despite the fact that it is 7 years since we last made one, I think that if I am to be honest it is a bit uphill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125154	Thank you. The last sign-in is Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125157	Thank you. I would like to ask the radical rapporteur what is actually going to happen to such a Council member who makes these extreme statements which can be said calmly, and I really think that is being said very well by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, that is to say that the Radicals must have a huge problem. There must be an incredibly large signal confusion. One speaks for the normal Danish culture in this area and the Danish values, one has a widespread degree of tolerance. Yeah, but there must be a limit to that tolerance. Can you really accept that you have a radical councilman speaking in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125239	In fact, I do not think we can accept that, but the consequence of that is that we in the Radical Left do not have an exclusion clause, and it may not be just around the corner to get one. It may be that this matter is pressing at the next national meeting, I could imagine, although I also believe that the radical hinterland will always sit on the principles. So somewhere I would also say that this is what we are going to do internally, and we have to take it in the conversation, but I fully recognise that this is a huge problem if it is the case that religion has to impose democratic principles. It should not, and certainly not, in the Radical Left. So no. I don't know if I got the answer, but I hope it helped a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125323	Sir. Peter Skaarup for another remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125324	Yes, but I would just like to follow up, because now I understand that Mrs Kathrine Oldag is saying here today that there is no exclusion clause, so you cannot exclude the person concerned from the Radical Left. But if it were up to the rapporteur, would it not be reasonable to exclude someone who moves so far away from everything we stand for in Danish society? So should the person concerned not be excluded? Is that not the opinion of the radical rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125357	Now I don't have as expanding megalomania as Mr. Mads Birded, but I don't think it's up to me, and I haven't talked to our councilman myself either. So I would like to take it as the basis for the fact that what should at least give rise to my opinion is that she and I are speaking together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125423	Thank you. Another request has been made for a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125429	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks of the fact that it is discrimination that we are increasing the number of people who can come here as international labour, saying that we are lowering the threshold for a number of selected countries. In 2018, the former VLAK government submitted a similar proposal. There were so few countries that were included, namely the so-called investment countries. That list has now been extended to include those countries which are visa-free into Europe under the Schengen acquis, but the original list was therefore smaller. Was the rapporteur a member of the Radical Left then, and does the rapporteur remember what the Radical Left thought about that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125513	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125514	No and no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125522	Here you go, Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125525	If it were the case that the Radical Left at that time thought it was a good proposal, that is to say that there were fewer countries that were being awarded than what is on the table today, when we are expanding the number of countries, does the rapporteur think that the Radical Left was in favour of discrimination at that time? Or is the whole idea of this really a little more dependent on you now wanting to position yourself in relation to something that doesn't really make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125549	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125550	What we in the Radical Left are doing in this round of reform negotiations has nothing to do with positioning. This has nothing to do with the fact that we stand firm on an old social-liberal principle that there is no discrimination on the basis of religion. So when the blue block chooses to play a part in this reform proposal with a discriminatory chapter, we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125618	Then there are no further brief comments to the radical rapporteur, so I would like to thank Mrs Kathrine Olly and welcome Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128125637	Thank you. It has been said several times that this is the kind of annual debate we have, and I, like Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, am actually pleased that we have it. I think there is something rather comical about the fact that when it is the right who raises these agendas, it is value policy; when it is the left who does it, then it is identity policy. In fact, it's all about the same thing, and that's why I think it might be a rather silly distinction. But let it go. There may not be values that are Danish alone, but in Denmark, and especially the generations before us, we have fought for the freedoms which, among other things, we have fought for. is reflected in our constitution. I am thinking in particular of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion. We have fought for the values that are also reflected in the European Convention on Human Rights, a convention that we have both endorsed and indeed incorporated into Danish law. And even though that convention has often been reproached in this Chamber, I do believe that it is an expression of precisely the Danish and democratic values that we all want to stand on. That's one of them. The right to equality is the prohibition of discrimination, it is the right to family life, which is reflected in the rights of the trade union movement, the social democracy and the left, for more than 150 years, just as it is the right to earn a decent living, the right to strike, the right to organise. There is still some way to go before we can say, as we can say, that we have now achieved precisely all these rights. I mean that at least. We are certainly not in line with equality, and we are certainly not in line with the fact that we all have the same conditions. And these are values that I do not think we can patent as Danish, and fortunately for that, because it is a good thing that other parts of the world also fight for equality and democracy. In fact, democracy, equality, equality and freedoms are some of the values that Enhedslisten fights for every day, not just to maintain them, but to strengthen them. Unfortunately, we have just seen that some of those rights are being reduced under the guise of strict immigration policy. So, in an attempt to defend some and to improve conditions for some, we are in fact tightening up the fundamental freedoms. This means, among other things, that we in Denmark have legislation on what kind of clothing women must wear on something that I myself think should be a thing of the past and that is so not an expression of equality. It also means that we have legislation which means that you will have a certain penalty, in fact a double penalty if it is committed in a particular area of the country. In his speech today, the Prime Minister said that we must speak openly and honestly about the problems. I fully agree with that. So let us now call things what they are, instead of making everything a matter of foreign policy. For example: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Because I certainly believe that we are facing some problems, including in the area of integration. And some of the problems have arisen because a majority in here has placed many stumbling threads in order for successful integration to take place. People flee for a reason, and many bring war traumas or torture injuries. Most people do not speak Danish perfectly when they arrive, whether they come as asylum seekers or quota refugees, they rarely speak Danish perfectly. But I think that to criticise the lack of integration, while at the same time having the so-called paradigm shift and other measures that both the Social Democrats and the Right support, where integration has been removed as an objective and replaced with the mantra they have to go home, yes, it is like blowing and having flour in their mouths. Already in spring 2015, the SR government implemented legislation that introduced temporary protection status; we have repatriation talks, where we give people money to go home, to tell them that they are not welcome here. These are leg buckles, I believe, for integration. Does this mean that the individual does not have a responsibility? No, I do not think so, because the individual has the two things to play together, and I think that a good example of this is that many more people have signed up to learn to speak Danish, which is a prerequisite for good integration after we have removed the user fee. It is the system and the individual's desire that play together in the good way. I would say many more things, but I have no more speaking time. The Enhedslisten can support the adoption text that Mr. Carl Valentin read.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130154	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130157	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now, of course, we have discussed the radical Councillor who, to say the least, has made some extreme statements. One might call him well radicalised in relation to the normal Danish debate. But I would like to hear how Enhedslisten will tackle such a case. If it were a councilman from the Enhedslisten who had said such a thing, would he be allowed to stay in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130230	It's a very hypothetical question, I'd say, sir. Peter Skaarup. I simply cannot answer that question. That would be up to our annual meeting to decide. We have exclusion clauses in the Enhedslisten. I imagine that what would happen was that each council member would be called by someone from the parliamentary group and explained it: the way Enhedslisten's policy is, this is how it is, and that is what you are elected to represent. If you mean something else and want to change Enhedslisten's policy, then you have to take it up at an annual meeting. This is how I imagine it would happen, but fortunately we are now in a situation where none of the members of Enhedslisten's Council have made these statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130311	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130312	I leave it safe to Enhedslisten what is being done here, but I can hear that what the rapporteur is proposing is, I think, a very bureaucratic path and that there are many obstacles before such statements can have any kind of consequences in the Enhedslisten if they come from the Enhedslisten members. But I just want to repeat the statement: the killing of the French teacher Samuel Paty has nothing to do with Islam, because Muslims do not kill. That's what the radical councilman says. So I would just like a clear answer from the Enhedslisten rapporteur here. Are these Danish values? Is it the view of the Enhedslisten that such statements should be accepted?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130350	I certainly do not believe that this is an expression of Danish values. No, I don't think so. I believe that a decisive Danish value is that we have freedom of expression, yes, but a decisive Danish value is also that we have respect for other people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130406	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, so thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Would the rapporteur like to drink off to the next one? Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130437	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for this annual debate. Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is not here, but many other good people from the Danish People's Party are here. The debate is obviously necessary, and I say this because unfortunately we are seeing more and more examples of the growing problems of immigration in Denmark. I am also saying this because, unfortunately, we have a government that would very much like to talk about the problems, but when it comes to concrete proposals that we make, they will not be looked at. Now it is a speech that returns year after year, but this year I will choose a slightly different focus from the previous years; I will just focus on a specific area, namely crime. I asked the Prime Minister before whether we should tighten up the rules for permanent residence. In the first place, I did not get an answer to that, and that is, of course, despite the fact that in his opening speech in the Danish Parliament in 2020 the Prime Minister himself called for the fight against crime in non-western environments in Denmark. The Prime Minister used the example of one in five with a non-Western background born in Denmark in 1997 breaking the criminal code. I myself have just described how more than one in five from Somalia and Iraq actually figured 23 per cent. for Somalis who got a stay in the period 2010-2005, subsequently committed crime. It's a crazy statistic. Yesterday, as I mentioned earlier, I received statistics from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration which emphasise that the number of EU citizens on permanent residence who commit crime is infinitely low compared to those from non-EU countries. So why is it that the Social Democrats are calling for a fight against crime in non-western environments without then wanting to tighten up the rules? We think that's really, really bad that you don't want to. Many of those who commit crime and who have permanent residence are, after all, people from non-western countries. I could then be confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration that, in the Social Democratic Party, it is quite clear that the current rules for permanent residence are in order despite these very, very frightening statistics. That is why, in my speech today, I have chosen not to talk about the major cultural problems that exist with non-Western immigration and parallel societies, etc. Instead, I would like to use my speech to call on the Prime Minister and Social Democrats to reconsider whether negotiations on the rules of permanent residence should not be called for. Let us now do what the Prime Minister himself has pointed out: let us now do something about the one in five with a non-Western background born in 1997 who commit crime. Because the reality is that once people get permanent residence, it is incredibly difficult to expel them again; you have to get all the way up to a real expulsion sentence and there has to be a lot of, very, very violent crime. Then I'm saying this now because we're in a very special situation. We see year after year that more and more people from Syria are seeking permanent residence. In the period around the refugee crisis in 2015, some 40,000 came from the Middle East and North Africa. More and more people are now seeking permanent residence here. And, of course, if you have committed crime, you should not have permanent residence. So I hope the Prime Minister will reconsider my call, and I am not saying it as political teasing. In fact, we succeeded in calling for negotiations on citizenship, and that is where we made a good deal. We've had some little disagreements since, but we actually made a really, really good deal. So let us do the same again in relation to permanent stay. That would be my call. This debate often has a lot of well-intentioned words and so on, but would it not be wonderful if this debate could actually lead to something concrete, so that we have negotiations on permanent residence and have tightened up compared to those who commit crime both before and after they have had permanent residence? So that should be my call from here. And then I can say that we support the adoption text that the Left has read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130843	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130846	Thank you. Sir. Mads Fuglede gave in reply to me that when it came to international politics, you weren't so much in agreement with New Citizens, but when it came to issues like this, you weren't pale to stand shoulder to shoulder. That's how I think he said it, but we can see that afterwards with New Citizens, that is when it came to foreign policy and value policy etc. Is that also conservative policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128130922	That's funny, so much time, sir. Jens Rohde is spending today talking about New Citizens. Now I can see that Mr. Jens Rohde supports a large number of proposals, etc. that also come from the Enhedslisten, so this goes both ways. New citizens come from Conservatives. As I recall, Mrs Pernille Vermund was a happy member of the Conservative People's Party for a long time, so we are happy to stand shoulder to shoulder with New Citizens. We do not agree on everything, but we do not agree with the Left on everything. The Left has just agreed to the agreement to give forced maternity to fathers because of a decision taken in the European Union. We do not agree with that, but that is why we can stand together and make a lot of good agreements together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131004	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131005	Yes, but now we are not wooing the government and the Prime Minister's office. That is why I just think it is a little interesting if you have a Prime Minister's candidate, on whom you want to build your majority; what kind of dependence will you accept as a government? And I'm asking because I've been there myself. I know what it means to have the Danish People's Party as a parliamentary basis: you become more and more right-wing, without even discovering it yourself. And that will be a problem in the long run, and that is why the voters are entitled to know whether V and K intend to form a government based on Mrs Pernille Vermund. And it's not personal, it's political.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131058	Sir. Marcus Knuth with an answer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131059	It's a very dangerous question, that is, the one with prime minister candidates. So I'll be very careful what I say here. But I will actually take the easy solution and answer as Mr. Mads Birded: that it is not something that I decide. But that doesn't change the fact that we are working with both the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party with great pleasure. And when sir... Jens Rohde says he's been there himself, so I don't know if it's like a prime minister candidate or what it is. This is, of course, a very hypothetical discussion, but so we are working happily with the new citizens, especially with regard to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131133	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131134	Thank you. Well, it is remarkable that such an issue should come from a now Christian Democrat, Mr. Jens Rohde, who since becoming a Christian Democrat, has almost de facto voted with the left and also made agreements with the left. For us in New Citizens, it is, of course, about what common values we have and where we have a common policy, and these are, of course, the ones we work best with. In this respect, and because we are now talking about value policy, both Conservatives and the Liberals have heard several times today that the negotiations that have been going on on foreign labour are being blocked by the new citizens. But can the rapporteur not confirm that, and now the rapporteur was also a member of the Left during the period during which it happened that the investment list of countries with which Danish companies would like to be extended to apply for labour was an investment list which came from the former VLAK government and that the Radical Left back then at Rasmus Helveg Petersen actually supported that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131241	After all, I have not been in this debate myself, but that is exactly how I understand it, and everything else is just a very good example of how we can make good, constructive agreements together. There is the myth that New Citizens is a protest party with only three key issues, but here is a very good example of how this is a very good, constructive agreement and why we are so pleased with the cooperation with all the parties involved in this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131308	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131310	When it is even relevant to talk about limits and foreign labour, it is of course both because this is about foreigners, but also because it is about economics, and for us in the New Citizens' Party, and I also understand for the other blue parties in the civil opposition... our economic policy is also part of our value policy. In other words, ensuring that the people who come here actually make a positive contribution to our society is of value, which is why it is only remarkable that there are parties which call themselves bourgeois, but which are totally stuck in the fact that the workforce that is needed in companies should not be allowed to come here. Can the rapporteur put a few words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131352	I am just happy with the nuance that Mrs Pernille Vermund himself describes here, that is to say that immigration and what some call the influx are only negative. It's not. Many of those who come here from MENAP countries, and especially through the asylum system, end up in the crime statistics I mentioned earlier, but those who come here from all kinds of other places around the world, especially to work, and who are here on a residence permit that ceases when you do not have a job, are of course a good thing for Denmark. That is why I would just like to congratulate New Citizens for having that nuance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131423	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131425	Thank you. I just wanted to say that I've been here the whole time, but I was just standing right over there and actually listening to the speech, and it's getting more and more strange to me, and, well, now, Mr. Simpson... This is Jens Rohde. 'Cause I took the floor before I thought, sir. Jens Rohde made some anti-democratic views, and I just wanted to say while Mr. Jens Rohde listens to the fact that you work with those who are working with and who are elected in this Parliament. Well, then I'll just have to say to Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth, when Mr. Jens Rohde says that you can become more and more right-wing without even feeling it, and that you just flow with the flow, that you may also be able to become more and more left-wing, without feeling it and just flowing with the flow, where you start with the Left and then move to Radical, and now you have become a little left-wing Christian Democrat. I mean, there is free choice on all shelves, but I actually think, even though I generally think that Mr. Jens Rohde is a cozy man that on the political level it was much more cozy that Mr. Jens Rohde is becoming more and more right-wing without even feeling it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131522	Then it is the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131525	After all, it is no secret that the matter of getting settled in another party can happen to even the best, and that has happened several times for Mr. Jens Rohde, and I think Churchill actually changed party three times. He began as a conservative, and then he became liberal, and then he returned to the Conservatives again. At any rate, this has not happened to me, but I can only say that I agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, and I am glad that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard listened to all my speech and also to the praise I gave to the Danish People's Party for this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131553	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131556	Thank you. It's mostly for the sake of the minutes. Even though Mr. Marcus Knuth and the undersigned agree on many things, I do not think that is a fair picture, as Mr. Marcus Knuth draws on the rules of permanent residence. In other words, we have very strict rules that were adopted before the elections, which we are aiming for and which we believe must be strict. The picture that is drawn from the fact that criminal foreigners get permanent residence and then can break loose in Denmark and are almost impossible to get rid of again is simply not right. It is the case that if you get the minimum prison sentence, you get 12 years of quarantine compared to being able to apply for permanent stay at least, but it can also be a higher waiting period. In addition, you must meet a wide range of other criteria, including: employment, no debt due to government, etc. etc. There are very strict rules, and that is why it is not this slaraffenland that I think Mr. Marcus Knuth is trying to draw a picture of.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131646	I agree with the rapporteur to the extent that it is fortunately a small group of people who commit crime, in other words that it is not a large group. But in that group there is a hard core, and these are the ones we would like to have a discussion about doing something about. When it's like that, 23%. of Somalis who have been permanently resident in the period 2010-2015 and subsequently commit crime, we have a problem. Then we have to look at the rules again. I am glad that there are a lot of people who do not commit crime, but in relation to those who do, I think that we should look at the rules. In connection with e.g. The rules on citizenship are, after all, a waiting period if you are fined for drug crimes or for breaches of the criminal code, but that period is not until you get to prison, in relation to permanent stay. I think that is simply wrong, because it would not surprise me if many of those who receive repeated fines, for example. drug crime and yet it has citizenship, also those who commit crime afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131749	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131750	Sir. Marcus Knuth, like me, reads a lot of answers to committee questions and, after all, we can see in very many of them that the foreigners who have committed serious crime are precisely characterized by not being near being able to have permanent residence because they are so far from meeting all these criteria. That is why I do not think the picture is quite clear. And I think it is also part of the fact that it is still possible to expel people, even if they are permanently resident, and that the Supreme Court has sanctioned expulsions of people who have been born and raised in Denmark, where we have also had the opportunity to do so without going into carambola with our international obligations. We fully agree that we should not have foreigners who commit serious crime here, but the picture I think was drawn in the speech, I do not think is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131827-2	Well, the statistics I provide are the answers to questions that I am sure of, sir. Rasmus Stoklund himself has also read. The reality is that there is a great deal to be done before a deportment judgment is taken. It's like you have a green light and so much, very red light. I think we could look at what could be done in this area, so that if you commit crime during a expulsion sentence, you could, for example, do it. lose his permanent residence. It could be one proposal that I think might be interesting to discuss, but it requires that we sit down and look at it, and I sincerely hope that the Social Democrats will.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131859	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128131901	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the rapporteur. There is nothing new in our positions, you might say we know the positions, but I would say that today's debate has allowed us to have some nuances, and the debate has allowed us to ask each other without the politicians' answers and defence positions being set up in this way. I think that is a good thing. I have therefore also tried to ask open questions so that we can reflect on our positions a little, and I would like to continue down that road a little, so I would like to hear the rapporteur about something. This is a powerful room, so you can try to look around. This is a powerful space: we have a prime minister, we have ministers, we have top politicians. This is a powerful room. What signal does the rapporteur think it sends out into society to young people with minority backgrounds when powerful people in a powerful room are talking about where their parents come from or came from, do we not want people from? We don't want people from the MENAPT Whatever the political position, the rapporteur thinks it sends a signal to the young people who are about to start a life and who are going to be Denmark's future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132015-2	I would say that I hope it sends out a signal that a very broad majority in this room is particularly concerned about the crime statistics that exist. And that part of the speech from the Prime Minister, I would like to commend and support in order to highlight the problem. So we do not entirely agree on whether to look at, for example. the rules of permanent residence. However, if such a broad majority in here far along the way at least recognises the problems there are, I think it sends a healthy signal that if you come to Denmark from somewhere in the world, you have to behave nicely.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132051	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132052	It is just because the vast majority of rapporteurs today have said that the majority of foreigners, minorities, descendants are doing well, and then there is a minority with which there are problems. At the same time, we have also been told again and again today during the debate that it is MEAPT countries, that is Turkey, Pakistan, the Middle East, that we do not want to get more people out of it. What I would like the rapporteur to reflect on is whether the rapporteur can imagine growing up and living in his own country and then having the feeling that he is not welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132128	Now, sir. Mr Sikandar Siddique (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr Siddique on his excellent report. After all, nobody says that you are not welcome if you come from a particular country. We focus on the problems there are, and everything else equal must be one of our most important tasks in here to solve the problems. After all, not all the people who behave are causing the problems, and so we are not spending a lot of time talking about them either. However, it is precisely with those who commit crime that we will take action, and that is why I have been so specific in my speech with a proposal to tighten up some of the rules against those who commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132201	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132222	Thank you, and thank you, DF and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for having called today's debate. We must strengthen the values that generations of Danes have built up before us and that we are obliged to pass on. Decades of failed immigration policy have wasted confidence between the Danes, and when confidence weakens, we become poorer, less free, more insecure. That's what's happening. In order to maintain confidence, freedom and security, we must demand that foreigners respect our values, respect our laws and contribute financially to the community. Foreign policy must be resolved from scratch. There must be a stop to spontaneous asylum in Denmark, we must demand that foreigners comply with our legislation and, of course, foreigners must support themselves. Our Danish community of values and trust among us are a prerequisite for our welfare society. It is our common values, the solidarity between the Danes and the feeling that we are one people who make us willing to share with each other. When we like to pay taxes to secure each other in difficult times or relationships, despite the fact that we are not related, not even know each other and maybe even live hundreds of kilometres apart, it is because we know each other's values that we share values because we feel connected by a common culture, a common history, a Danish community of values. But our common values are under pressure. For nearly 40 years we have let hundreds of thousands of people into our country who unfortunately do not share our values, and many will never do so. Many thought naively that in time the travelers would become like us and take our values to heart. The many were horribly wrong. That must and must be corrected and we must do it now. It is a responsibility of our generation. We cannot allow ourselves to pass the problems on to our children. The problems of unintegrated immigrants from Muslim countries in particular are getting worse year by year. Decades of patchy solutions don't work. We are consistently left with poor choice of Member Illiberal solutions and Middle Eastern conditions because the root of the nettle is not being grasped. It is time to reverse developments and solve the problems from scratch. If we do not reverse the trend now, everything else can be equally important, for then the foundation of our free and secure society crumbles, and Denmark changes forever. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132512	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132514	Thank you. I should just like to say to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that I can and we can cooperate with all parties. Together we, the Danish People's Party and the Christian Democrats, have just entered into an agreement with the government and the hated left-wing party I notice that is not our starting point, but it is the case that one always gets blamed for being in bed with Enhedslisten, because one can make agreements with Enhedslisten. But the Danish People's Party has also done so this weekend. That's what I'm talking about. We can easily make agreements with the Danish People's Party, and we can also make agreements with New Citizens if that is how we agree on the policy. But if we do not agree on the policy, we will not. It is the dependence on the New Civil and Danish People's Party that I am concerned about a bourgeois government. But that's not what I want to ask. This is how, as a citizen, we can vote against the agreement that is on the table and that also has the element of having to focus more on Western European labour, namely through the initiatives to set up recruitment offices in, for example, the United Kingdom. Germany and Western Europe? How can you vote against it as a citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132639	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132643	If we're talking about the deal that was made the other day... that's the deal that you made with the left wing last week we're talking about? Yeah. Are we talking international labour, or are we talking about the agreement on daily allowances, etc.? The agreement that you have presented, that is to say, for which there is a small minority, in relation to international labour, is an agreement which does not solve the challenge that companies face in terms of obtaining labour for Denmark, nor does it look after Denmark, because it opens up international labour with very narrow conditions. On the other hand, it opens up the whole world, including the countries with which we know we have major problems, and we are opposed to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132731	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132732	It is very illustrative that bourgeois Denmark is paralysed in terms of business, because there is foreign policy on all issues. There was also when it was about climate and agriculture. All of a sudden it was to be financed by foreigners. It is just a party brake for us, that is, it blocks constructive solutions. That is why we are in this situation now, that is, that the Danish business community must see that what bourgeois parties have demanded over years is voting against civil parties now, after we have received it as a gift from the government. That makes no sense, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132814	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132815	It is, of course, very sweet how you can not just change parties, but also change attitudes. I'm sorry if I'm wrong about the history of Mr. Simpson. Jens Rohde's parties, but either Mr. Jens Rohde was a member of the Left or of the Radical Left when the former VLAK government presented the proposal to lower the threshold for these investment countries. That is exactly what is in the proposal we are making now. We are expanding it even more. And when it was presented in 2018, when Mr. Jens Rohde was either the Left or the Radical Left, who supported the proposal, was the Radical Left in favour of that proposal. Now they say it is to discriminate. I don't know if it's 'cause mr. Jens Rohde's got a different hat on and now he's a Christian Democrat, or maybe it's because Mr. Jens Rohde forgot that you've been for it in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132859	Thank you. Next is Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128132903	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we have also noted that New Citizens are in favour of extending it in relation to the limit on the amount. What concerns us a little is that Mrs Pernille Vermund, as far as I could see, has written on the website that New Citizens would also like to extend it to India. I stand here with the World Watch List 2022 over the 50 most dangerous countries to be Christian in, and there is India in a tenth place. India lies before Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Qatar and all such countries as are thought to have an over-representation of Muslims. I assume that we share the premise that this is due to the over-representation of Muslims in India. There are between 180 and 200 million. Is that the 200 million new citizens are about to open up to? And how are we going to ensure courage when you open up to India that there will be no over-representation of these nearly 200 million people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133013	Now I suppose Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker knows that Hindus live primarily in India. More than 80%. of India's population are Hindus. There are also Muslims, that is correct, but it is in round numbers about as many as there are in Sweden not in number, but as a percentage of the population. It's just to get a perspective on how much Muslims fill in India and how much they fill in other countries with which we usually have no problems. Is there a problem in India? Yes, for crying out loud, I don't want to live in India, but when we talk about labour, we can see that the Indians who have come to this country are less criminal than Danes, and they are better integrated into our labour market than the vast majority of other foreigners and, above all, when they have children in Denmark, there are so few problems with them that they do not even appear in the statistics. So we have to deal with the fact that the people who come to this country with a job on hand are clearly acting differently than if you had to settle in India, which I or Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker probably wouldn't want us to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133125	Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133126	It could be fantastic and the best if it were so, but we also have to deal with the fact that there are nearly 200 million Muslims living in India, and we have to deal with the fact that when India is so high up on the list of countries that are the most dangerous countries to be Christian in, it is because the Muslims are not quite peaceful, otherwise the country would not appear so high up. I assume that Mrs Pernille Vermund shares that view. I just want to know whether it is New Citizens' opinion that people who come up here on the money scheme should be allowed to take their spouses and children with them, and whether the spouses and children should also be allowed to work under the payment scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133215-2	It is our view that you come from the countries that we have selected as positive countries. It is based on how we can see they behave when they come to Denmark and you have a job, you are welcome. If you lose your job or commit crime, you get out immediately. Of course, if you have a spouse who also has a job, the spouse is welcome, and so are the children. But if you don't have a job and can't support yourself, you have to get out. That is also why, for us, it is absolutely crucial that we remove the benefits to foreigners who are already in Denmark if they do not want to integrate into our labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133254	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133254-2	I'm circling the same thing a little bit. When it's a little uncertain what this proposal is going to be about, and I think it's just a thought, but it's also time to warn about what can happen. I actually understand the idea of the fact that if you want to finally lower the limit and want to open up more foreign labour we do not want to do so in the Danish People's Party, then you say: Okay, North Africa and the Middle East. But that is not done with it, because what Mrs Hjermind Dencker says is true. So that's about. Two million in India, and you'd like to open them up. In Malaysia there are 20 million Muslims. There are 10 million in the United Arab Emirates. Just in the United States, there's 3.5 million. Well, we can go on; there are plenty of Muslims around in the countries that New Citizens will then open up to. All you have to do is put it behind your ear. And I also believe that it is not possible to close some countries and open them to other countries at all. But precisely because I can see from Berlingske that it is a proposal that you might have on slipping and not entirely agree on in that block, it seems as if, then I would just warn and say: paragraph 1 that it is not possible and paragraph 2 that there are plenty of Muslims who will flow in no matter what, even if you try to close on North Africa and the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133407	It is quite true that when we get foreign or international labour, whether we get it from the European Union, whether we get it from the Nordic countries or whether we get it from the world, people who are Muslims can come here. It can also be done from Sweden, and it can also be done from France. We have some European countries which, unfortunately, have developed in a direction where Islam is filling up more and more, and that is of course problematic. However, this does not change the fact that, firstly, we have rejected the Muslim countries. We can then say from the other bourgeois parties that there is a positive list in which some countries have been chosen for which one would like to choose. For us in New Citizens, it has been very crucial that we have opted out of the countries with which we have major problems. Secondly, there is a limit to the number of people who can come here in the proposal we have put forward. And that is precisely so that we do not change significantly as a country. We say that we will ensure that there is a limited number corresponding to what companies need from labour. It is only when there is a shortage of labour, and it is also with an amount limit corresponding to DKK 30,000. a month to be earned in order to be considered at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133516	Thank you. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133517	Yes, but I am just saying it in good time before perhaps presenting the proposal, because there is no reason to do so, if it is on the principle that you try to close down the more or less clean countries they are not, but still North Africa and the Middle East. I just have to say that in Bosnia and Herzegovina 51 per cent. of the population of Muslims. Well, I'm just saying, if you're not aware of what Muslims are everywhere, if that's what you want to close up, and it looked like that's what New Citizens and Pernille Vermund in Berlingske wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133548-2	What we want is firstly to ensure that the economic growth and prosperity that we have in Denmark will continue to be there. For us, value policy is also a question of our being a prosperous country in the future, of our children and grandchildren growing up with the same opportunities that we have and of having an economy that can carry a welfare sector where there are constantly better opportunities for treatment and so on. The prerequisite for this is that our Danish companies can run around and that they can get labour. Then we say that if they are to have labour, they must, of course, have labour on certain conditions that allow them to attract the labour force, but we must also ensure that the people who come here are people who do not destroy our culture and cohesion. And that is why we have said that we can add a few more countries to this group of investment countries that the VLAK government presented at the time, but it should not be the MENAPT countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133641	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizen, and that is why the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128133657	Thank you for the floor, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question in the question is this: Will the Prime Minister outline the government's policy of value, focusing on the challenges arising from immigration, which pushes or forces the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and to correct them for the sake of immigrants? I would like to start by saying that the Free Greens do not agree with the premise or to say it with Schlüter's words: things are going incredibly well. It's going well with integration. The preamble to the debate is false. The first generation, the guest workers came to Denmark in the 1970s. They left their families; they came here and worked hard; they worked in factories for 14 hours a day; they drove a taxi, they drove a bus, they cleaned. They did everything they could to make everyday life work together, to look after and take responsibility for the families they left in their home countries, and to look after and care for the families they created here. So I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the many mothers and fathers who have done so incredibly well. You've done amazingly well. And Denmark would not have been the strong welfare society if it had not been for your efforts. You must be hailed for your efforts; you have done unbelievably well. Then these guest workers have children who we for many years called second-generation immigrants, but whom we in the Free Greens call first-generation dancers. They are storming up on education; women have surpassed ethnic Danish women in relation to higher education; boys are just as closely following, and they are actually storming into the labour market, despite the fact that there are some structural obstacles, some stumbling threads that we, as legislators, have a task in getting rid of, so that we can get more people into the labour market. And although the position of the Free Greens is that laborism is not necessarily the right way for us, it is about creating meaningful lives. It does not necessarily have to be with a full-time job, but it is another discussion. It's about creating meaningful life; it's about creating content in your life; it's about being free and independent in deciding what you want. Anyway, integration is going amazingly well. Then it is also true that because many of our parents did not know better and because the policy was such that many of them had housing in the same area where there were socio-economic problems, we have some problems, some challenges with boys who cannot behave properly. We need to do something about that. And it is also true that there is negative social control, but it is because the patriarchate exists; it is because we live in a male-dominated society. And it has nothing to do with religion, culture, it can play a part, but it is a problem because the patriarchate exists. That is what we must fight. We must fight our misguided masculinity standards. That is what we must fight. So the contribution of the Free Greens to the debate is that, of course, we need to address where there are challenges, but let us not forget that integration is going well. Then I would like to read out the text adopted by the Free Greens. It reads: Proposals for adoption The integration is going well. Minority citizens work their way through the challenges posed by their path and show that they want Danish society if they want it. The Folketing instructs the government to immediately remove the state-racist legislation that has been implemented over the past two decades, so that integration can go from good to perfect and Denmark can again become a humanitarian lighthouse, which one looks at with admiration in the rest of the world. • V 34). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128134210	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There is no brief comment to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. The next rapporteur is from the Christian Democrats. Here you go, sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128134235	You always feel so small when you come for mr. Sikandar Siddique, because the platform is high up I just need to be able to look over it too. I can start by saying to Mrs Pernille Vermund that I can now, fortunately, my own story, and the proposal to which Mrs Pernille Vermund refers, I thundered against it then, mainly because I thought it was stupid for the reasons that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard just read out. So just for the record, I didn't support that proposal at any time. The other day, I found an article from 1958 that told of the great fear of that decade. It was the fear of Germanisation and that Germanisation would destroy Danish society and our values. That was then. In fact, until 1986 there was also a ban on satellite dishes in this country by the former media rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, because we should not have that cultural influence from outside. That was then. I can also add another quotation: European civilization is in crisis, in deep doubt about itself, its own values and what it stands for, the family pattern is breaking up, loneliness and despair everywhere, pollution, immigration, the atmosphere of doom. And no, it is not a Morten Messerschmidt speech that I am quoting here, although one would think that it was taken from a debate in today's Denmark. It's taken from Søren Mørch and his fantastic work... The European House, which was published in 1991. For Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's guilt can also go even further back in time: Alexander Pushkin, beginning of the 1800s, Victor Hugo, in the mid-18th century, or Hungarian Imre Kertész from the 20th century. And it is quite true that these cultural pessimists had many thought-provoking things to tell us on top of two world wars. Maybe it's just sir. Morten Messerschmidt, who unfortunately is not here now, is going to reread his epidemiology. Kertész, who survived Auschwitz, tried through his novels to illustrate that the Holocaust could not only be hit into a certain period, but that it is a consequence of our culture understood in that we are doomed to continue in the tracks of violence, sedition and racism, unless we seek and find the necessary insight about ourselves. That is why I said to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, as I did, that we need to recognise what is inside ourselves. According to Kertész, only reflection, insight and awareness can help us to create a stable and peaceful Europe. So it is true that there is very useful reflection to be drawn from the illustrious cultural pessimism, I just think that we might read this cultural pessimism a little differently. On one point, however, I would say that the cultural pessimists have been wrong. The linear modern-tested history tells of crises, but it does away with the pessimism of culture and its tale that the world has changed to such an extent that immigration is so violent that destruction is near. It's a story we've heard over the years. I also remember Mogens Glistrup's book... The foreigners in the country from 1991. And no, its predictions did not hold true either. History has so far condemned the end of European civilization. It is in itself a fantastic tale that we might need to talk about a little bit more. Of course, we must not forget the crises; we must never close our eyes to problems where they are. But it is my claim that we solve the problem best by meeting people where they are and with respect for the value of every life in itself. And we solve the problems best by speaking to the king rather than to the bastard in man and by rejecting the moods of doom. Danes and Europeans have shown that we wanted and want to do things differently than doom. Political, economic and cultural progress has only been made over time since the war, often with small steps and sometimes too slow, including integration. But it is going, and it has progressed, and it will continue to do so, especially if we can agree to try to overcome each other's differences rather than constantly trying to erase them and if we dare to talk each other up. As I said, if you want to change the world, you must always start with yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128134735	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no brief comments. Then we are through the rapporteur's line. I understand that it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who rounds the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128134755	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the authors of the motion, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party, not only to ensure that we get an annual status on value policy, but also to reveal that a very young Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has been a Blue Tit it gives strong images on the retina. We have also passed the relationship between socio-economics and culture, the system of amounts, the formation of governments, Germanisation and a lack of a radical exclusion clause. All of these are interesting questions to me. Thank you, too. Jens Rohde and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt for a lively and perhaps also a little surprising debate about German cultural pessimists and fiction from the 1800s. I myself am an optimist of culture I believe so much in our culture and democratic values and so much in their power and that they are so convincing in their contrasts that, after all, they will win in the long run. Of course, this presupposes that we understand what values they are, and perhaps also that we return to them and have some discussions that our society has not taken for many years, because much of it has been taken for granted. I would also like to express my thanks to all those who, today and in the battle for value, have focused on girls and women; many rapporteurs have done so. Several, among others. Mr. Mads Fuglede, in their speech very precisely, addressed some of the challenges that are particularly related to girls and women in immigrant environments. I am also pleased to hear that a naive approach to inclusiveness, diversity, diversity and inclusion must not become a pretext for looking the other way. Spaciousness takes place precisely in a room, and a room has boundaries. And if not inclusiveness has limits, it is simply indifference, and that is why it is also essential that we have a debate like that today about where the borders are going. It is too often, when we look at the struggle that some New Danish women are fighting, that it is dissolved in a debate about indifference. That is why we have called the Commission set up by the government the forgotten women's struggle. It should obviously be the case that all girls and women in Denmark naturally experience that equality and freedom also apply to them, but unfortunately it is equally obvious that there are environments where it is not the norm and where girls and women are accused of having become Danish in Denmark if they are free from a oppressive culture. That is why I am also looking forward to the new Commission starting its work, because we are in the midst of a value struggle where we need new, fresh ideas and new eyes to look at the same challenges and, perhaps, in particular, that some of the women who have faced the problems close to the body and in their own lives will also have the opportunity to interfere in the debate and gain direct access to us as decision-makers. With those words, I would like to thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135107	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135111	Thank you. A lot has happened since the Minister was last on the platform. I've got one of them. in writing. - (FR) I have given my rapporteur's speech, which I hope has helped to convince the Minister that we need to do something particularly in relation to the large group that came to this country during the refugee crisis. It was 40,000 from Syria, the Middle East and Africa. After all, the Minister himself said that they should not just have a fast track for permanent residence and citizenship. But now we see that more and more people from, among others. Every year Syria seeks and gets permanent residence, and if the Minister holds on to that, and I hope he does not do so, that he will not call for permanent residence negotiations, what will the Minister do to ensure that this large group does not get a permanent stay in Denmark in the near future and thus de facto do not return to their country of origin?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135159	Most residence permits for Syrian refugees were granted in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. It was in the years that came most. Our permanent residence rules say that you can apply for permanent residence after 4 years, and there you have to meet some rather tight conditions, and after 8 years they remain tight, but not quite as tight as after 4 years. So far it does not seem that many Syrians have applied for permanent residence permits, but it is true that as the years pass we will of course see that more and more of the Syrians who arrived then live up to the conditions for permanent residence. I am not in favour of certain groups of foreigners having to have fasttrack. I believe that the Syrian refugees must meet the same conditions as everyone else, and they are, as I said before, quite tight. Everyone can look up at nyidanmark.dk and see that it is about some Danish knowledge that one must have been in work for 3 years and 6 months, that one must not have committed serious crime, and a large number of other provisions. I think that is healthy and sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135307	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135308	However, there is precisely a fixed track system for e.g.: young people between 18 and 19 years of age. That system is being used very much by descendants of refugees who have come here, who do not have to meet the employment requirement, who have a permanent residence, and who are therefore much harder to return home. So there are a great many parts of the legislation that I think deserves a service service service if you can call it that. So it's actually just one last request that when the Prime Minister himself describes that one in five with a non-Western background born in 1997 commits crime, we get these rules looked through again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135347	I think it might be messed up a little bit. If you commit serious crime, you can be expelled. The longer you have been here, the more serious crime has to be in order for you to be able to follow a expulsion. I think that intuitively makes very good sense. That expulsion can take place regardless of whether you are permanently resident or not. I would also like to say that when the young people who have been here for so many years and who are here because of their parents' residence permit are 18 years old, they must have their own basis of residence, and then I think it makes very good sense to open a window between the ages of 18 and 19 and say that they will have the opportunity to have their own permanent stay if they apply at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135422	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135424	Thank you. I would also like to return to my first questions, because I asked both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration about the number and that the number matters. And both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration replied something like this: yes, yes, but not as many new people come here as they did before. However, this does not change the fact that population growth is made up in proportion more of people who come here from the MEAPT countries than from our own society. In other words, when you look at how population growth has been since the 1980s, that group of the population has just grown relatively faster. So it's a matter of time before we can see that this population is so important a part of our society that it's hard to go back. And as I said at the outset, it would not have been a problem if they had integrated into our society, assimilated themselves, had become Danes, over a generation or two had been melted into Danish society. That's just not the case, so what does the government intend to do so that we don't get to where this is going to be irreversible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135534	I am incredibly pleased that Mrs Pernille Vermund says that it would not be a problem if they had integrated within a generation or two, had become part of Danish society. In fact, I believe that what we are looking at today is that the proportion of foreigners coming to Denmark and receiving a residence permit coming from countries with which we historically do not have integration challenges is by far the largest and that the proportion of foreigners coming to Denmark from countries with which we historically have integration challenges is quite small. That is a good thing, because it means that we do not pile up an integration puck in front of us. And that is combined with the fact that the integration of the people who have come here from all the countries of the world is actually going in the right direction. This shows, of course, that if we can maintain a strict immigration policy, maintain an integration policy that is not naive, then we will have the integration debt planned, and then we will end up in a situation not tomorrow, not even in one year's time, nor in ten years' time, but in the future, where we will be a society where people have different religions, but also a society where there is cohesion and community. All it takes is for us to have a firm hand on the wheel for many years in a row.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135642	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135643	It is a very, very strange form of logic. Well, that's like saying: I have a huge debt, and now I still spend too much every month, I just spend a little less too much than I did before. But that would mean an increase in the debt. The Minister must surely recognise that if we have massive challenges for integration today and we shut more people in here year by year and at the same time insist that the people who are here who commit crime and who do not want to integrate into our labour market are allowed to stay here, then the problems are growing. Well, it may be that on the right and on the left we have different views on economics, but this is something we have to think of rationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135724	In fact, if we take 2021, I do not believe that the problems have increased. If you take the people who have come to Denmark and keep it up against what has succeeded with integration in that year, then I would estimate that 2021 is a picture of a year when Denmark comes closer to the solution and not closer to the problems. That is also the case in 2022 and 2023 and for many years to come, and then I am reasonably optimistic. So I don't subscribe to a breakdown story, and I'm not a culture pessimist. I agree that in the popular culture of music, on Netflix and elsewhere, in the literature there will be one dystopia about the future of Europe after another. I believe in success, and the moment I wouldn't believe it, I'd give up my resignation, because then I don't want this job anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135805	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135807	Thank you. I just wanted to say thank you to the Foreign Minister. It does not happen very often that I do, but I am really glad that the government has taken up this issue of negative social control and takes it so seriously and also precisely defines it as an equal opportunities struggle. The fight for equality has always been a struggle for more rights, and that is why I am pleased to see that the government in its legislative catalogue has a legislative proposal that comes on the basis of a resolution from the Enhedslisten to ensure that young people who are sent on a re-educational journey are, of course, entitled to their residence permit in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135848	You're welcome. And I hope that this bill can really be adopted, because there is something that we need to put right. Then I would also like to say, when it comes to rights, that some of what I think we need to have more focus on is that when we in here press the green button when 90 of us do it then a new law has been passed, and sometimes some people get some rights in our society. But for a large part of the women who grow up in minority environments, it's just words on a piece of paper. It is not rights that they can claim in the real world. So we can decide in here that the age of sex is 15 years or that you can marry someone of the same sex as yourself, but in large parts of Danish society it is not really a right that they have access to. That is why I think we should be more interested in the relationship between formal rights and real rights, and some of what I hope the Commission that is now being set up will be working on and making recommendations on is how the formal rights we agree on in this room can in practice also be achieved in all residential areas of Denmark and in all communities of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135955	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128135955-2	In order to claim your rights, you must also know that you have them, and perhaps that is also a little what the Minister says, just in a rather more legal way. But I would certainly say that I think that what is absolutely crucial is that when you come to Denmark, you are also told that in Denmark you have the right to organise yourself in a union, you have the right to receive a salary for your work, and of course you also have the right to your own body, and you have the right to marry whoever you want. And I just think so, sir. Minister of Foreign Affairs, is very much intertwined.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140033	I recently visited an advisory service for women with an immigrant background who are exposed to violence and social control, and one of the things I was aware of was that one of their experts, who is an expert who has worked with women with a Danish background, also at shelters, said that there was always the woman's girlfriends and said: Leave the man you should not accept that; leave him, take the children and leave. But when they talked about women from immigrant communities, they said that the woman's friends and associates had exactly the opposite view. They said: Stay with him now, that is your task; it is all our honour that is at stake. There is a difference there that we must understand if we are to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140120	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140122	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to say to the Minister that if there is anything to hinder integration, it is that, as a minority, you feel alienated in your own country and see those in power having a four-hour discussion, in which they consistently say that it is the Muslims that you have to limit, it is Muslim immigration, you have to limit that the immigrants do not look enough like us, that they are from these countries, it is from Turkey, and it is from the Middle East. If there's anything that's anti-integration, it's feeling excluded and outside. It was not a question; it was a comment to the Minister. The minister says that this is about not having a crazy foreign policy, but a strict foreign policy. However, we saw in the EU hearing that even Social Democrats Social Democrats Would the Minister not want to add a few words to that, since it is also about our foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140229	In other words, conservative policy is well defined by the Conservatives; social democratic policy is defined by the Social Democrats. What our party has adopted, and we applaud our congresses and raise our hands in our parliamentary group, is what is the policy of social democracy. So I'm gonna take it easy. To the introduction in Mr. Sikandar Siddique's remark about feeling alienated, I would like to say that I am actually quite convinced that the rapporteur is right in saying that it is an obstacle to integration if people do not feel at home in this country. That is why I myself will make a great effort not to give people the opportunity to get that feeling in my stomach. It should only be possible to accommodate it within the framework of a free and open debate, where the different views that exist in Danish society should be able to be present in the Danish Parliament Hall. Then, of course, it is up to all of us who have access to the microphones to speak properly. But I would also like to say to those people who feel alienated that once in a while you must also say that yes, the world is unjust, because it is, and then raise your back and keep going forward and not packing up and feeling sorry for yourself, because you get nowhere with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140350	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140351	That is exactly what the minority young people are doing today. In spite of 20 years of demonization and alienation, they are rushing forward in education. They can't hold back. The women with the scarf can't hold back. They're storming on our educations. Now all we have to do is to remove the barriers that exist so that they can enter the labour market. Just to return to colleagues in the European Union: when I mention it, it is because it must give cause for thought that socialist colleagues say it is a crazy policy. In fact, I think there was a colleague who asked, "How can you sleep at night?" It is to get the Minister to reflect on the fact that what the Minister calls a strict immigration policy, other socialists call a crazy immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140439	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140440	So, first of all, I would like to say that the European Parliament is a place where there are a little more arm movements and a little more rhetoric than we may be used to in here. It is also a place where I have in any case been presented with some positions which I thought sounded like a voice from the grave • a completely naive entrance to what immigration does to Europe • from some of the representatives of the European Parliament. Then it is true that there are many who are rushing forward, and fortunately for that. It also tells me that although the Greens say that a policy of 20 years has been pursued, I must understand that state racism does not change the fact that in important areas statistics point in the right direction. Surely, then, part of the policy against which the Greens are so strongly opposed is perhaps the very reason why integration is progressing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140530	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has asked to speak here at the end. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128140544	Thank you. Then we will be here again in January, as we have done so many times before and we will certainly do next January, and that is a very good thing. I think in all modesty that we all think so. That is what I have heard in today's debate. It is a good idea just to reverse the views, and perhaps we can go just a tiny step further every time we have one of these questions debates. I have to say to people who say that integration is good, it just needs to get a little better, and then everything will be fine: no, it is not good, and there are among people who feel that they are not integrated, everything, too much sacrificial mentality, and I simply cannot bear that. Denmark is an immensely hospitable and tolerant country, we just are, and I think we should make that clear. We must be proud of our country. We must be proud of the tolerance that we show there, how many other countries have a completely opposite view than what we have in relation to tolerance. Those who come here must be happy. Those who have been able to come here with an opportunity to stay here because they are well-founded can stay here. Those who are not well-founded, those who do not want to, must go back. They should not be here if they simply go and are dissatisfied and demand in all the time and must be given positive special consideration, and that is unfortunately what is happening. I am still opposed to positive special consideration being given to a Muslim minority, despite everything so far. I don't think it's okay for us to set up. It is they who come here to Denmark that have to adapt I once said many years ago in a very high debate, and it was just before the elections in 2001 when I quoted Kemal Atatürk, the founder of Turkey, to say: "There is only one civilization, and that is the Western. It was then that you had to get on the platform every time you had to have a brief comment, and I could sense that down in the ranks you were jumping over each other because everyone was so furious. Out in Vandrehallen I was summoned for an interview by the next-coming Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen's pressman, Michael Kristiansen. He said that I should come to the PM's office because he wanted to rebuke me, because he was afraid that with the statements I made he could not become Prime Minister because he would not get the support of other parties. I remember it today with a smile, I think I did at that time too, and that is why, of course, I am glad that the debate has come where it has come today. And I am also pleased with the speeches of both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Integration, certainly. I still think that the thing about how things are gonna work out is that we have to wait. Finally, I would like to raise one point which has not really been reversed in this debate and which I could not reach in my rapporteur's speech, namely the European Union. It's been a little debated lately. And yes, it is true that there are some very strange ideas about things in the European Union. I can say that the Swedish Commissioner is probably one of those who is leading the odds with regard to foreign policy. The Minister is allowed to sit on his hands now instead of patting, because I think the Minister agrees; that is something the Minister should not say, because then the Minister can get into a storm, I think. That is how it is in the European Union. And there I just have to say that this incident that took place in the European Union some time ago, when the pope had to engage in a defence of Christian values, I thought it was really, really nice. I missed the Danish bishops, because there the EU wanted to convert Christmas into a holiday time, and that also has to do with values. Now we have touched on Muslim immigration and gang crime and special considerations and such a great deal, but I really think that what is called values also calls up many, many other things where we should be careful not to let go of what we consider not only Danish values but Western values. There was a great deal going on in the European Parliament, and there I noticed in the long document that we did not assume that we were all Christians, so we did not have to celebrate the Christian festivals either. You had to change it, and you used an example that you didn't recommend saying that Christmas time can be stressful. It was a little negative, but that holiday time can be stressful. In other words, it is just something that is immediately regarded as small things, but which can also be a gigantic pressure on what I would call western values and which we should be aware of. I think that should be said in this debate. It is not only in Denmark that we must fight against a change in society, but it is also in other parts of the world that it is happening in Europe. I am not going to say anything more now than that it has been a long debate. Thank you for the debate, thank you for a positive attitude and a positive mood. I can tell the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration that if I have said something wrong, you can go up and say it. No! Well, that's good. Thank you. But I'm thinking, hasn't that really happened? Yes, it has happened, because I have what happened down in the European Union in print. But I just think I would like to end the debate by saying thank you for that. It's been fine. We will have many debates by next January, but this very general debate is fine that we can have at least once a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141121	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141124	It is not to prolong the debate unnecessarily, but when we have these discussions, it is very often black and white. That is why I just wanted to vote in relation to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's concluding remarks, which I think were very good and which I can so much support. It's basically about us. If we feel that something is threatened, it is because we ourselves are not strong enough. That is why we must have the courage to stand up for our own values, our own beliefs and our Christian cultural foundations. But others must also be allowed to stand up for what they believe in as long as it does not harm others. Can we agree that far, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141211	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141213	Completely! We can certainly agree on that. I do not demand that one should renounce one's rituals, let us call it that, or that one celebrate a celebration that is not Danish at all. I just don't want us to make our everyday life conform to the Muslim faith. But I couldn't dream of taking people's faith away from them. Well, I'd like to see more Christians. In particular, I believe that action should be taken against those countries where Christians are clearly persecuted; I think that is quite awful. But if we take Denmark: We should not persecute each other, I don't think we should, but we shouldn't take over another belief with us, and that's what I'm afraid of. I certainly think that if you are a Muslim in Denmark, you can arrange for yourself to do the same. If I lived abroad, I would conform to the country in the public room, but at home with myself I would certainly have a plastic Christmas tree, dance about the Christmas tree and celebrate Christ if it were a country where there was heat opposite in our country. So I completely agree with that. Like the old debate about whether or not it does matter that you have a different skin color: No, it doesn't make the most of it, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141325	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 1 February 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141344	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141402	Thank you for the floor. With the proposal we are debating today, the proposers want to instruct the government to propose amendments to the Aliens Act to repeal the 24-year rule by the end of this Assembly at the latest. The 24-year rule implies that both spouses or regular couples must be at least 24 years of age in order to obtain family reunification. The rule was introduced in 2002 and it has a 20-year birthday with the aim of combating forced marriages and limiting immigration to Denmark, thereby supporting integration. More precisely, it appears that the older you are, the better you can resist pressure from the family or others to marry against your will. It follows from this that the aim of the 24-year rule is to protect young people from pressure to enter into marriage and to free young people from pressure to explain to the immigration authorities that they want marriage reunification, even if this is not really the case. It also appears that the overall background to the draft law includes: was to limit the number of foreigners coming to Denmark in order to have peace to ensure the necessary integration of the foreigners who were already in the country. These considerations behind the 24-year rule were important at the time, and they continue to be so. Then there is an immediate positive effect of the 24-year rule, which I would also like to highlight. It is, of course, difficult to isolate the effect of exactly the 24-year rule in relation to other rules of marriage reunification and the general development of integration and marriage patterns that have been among immigrants and descendants. However, with that reservation, I would like to mention that there are studies which show that there is a positive link between a higher age when marriage is concluded and the completion of education. Non-western immigrants who marry other non-western immigrants have on average less education than non-western immigrants who marry descendants or people of Danish origin. This is partly due to the fact that those who marry an immigrant get married earlier. Many immigrants, therefore, still have to complete their education when they marry another immigrant, and this suggests that they will not complete the training afterwards. In other words, the likelihood of completing an education increases with a later marriage age. I understand from the comments on the motion for a resolution that the proposers believe that the 24-year rule goes against the spirit of the ban on discrimination and the right to family life in the European Convention on Human Rights. To this I can say very clearly that the 24-year rule does not apply if it would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations, including the Convention on Human Rights. It can, for example, be done. be a situation in which the resident spouse or permanent partner has a certain degree of association with children from a previous relationship in this country. If, in such a situation, the 24-year rule is not met and refusal would be contrary to the Convention, a residence permit shall be granted in accordance with the rules of the Aliens Act for exceptional reasons. So to sum up: we want to stick to the 24-year rule, we want to stick to a strict immigration policy, we want to continue to fight forced marriages and we want to continue to limit the number of foreigners coming to Denmark. That is what is essential to the government and we cannot therefore support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141718	Thank you. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141721	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Minister. After all, I had hoped that the government and the Social Democrats had moved on to this issue since 2002, when it was introduced, because it was in a time and atmosphere where it was said that now we had to tighten up and now we had to limit immigration, which is why a lot of symbolic political proposals were thrown into the Chamber and had them implemented. Although the Minister mentioned this, I would still like to ask the Minister: how many young people have the 24-year rule helped out of compulsion? Can the Minister explain... [Sound emission]?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141756	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141804	It is difficult to say with solid statistics in the back, because for good reasons we do not know who did not seek family reunification because they were aware of the rules. But I agree with Mr. Sikandar Siddique in that the 24-year rule was introduced after the 2001 elections at a time when there was a mood that drew towards tightening. I was a little torn up back then. On the one hand, I was against the 24-year rule, because I thought: why should the state interfere with it? And on the other hand, at that time, I was even 20 years old and had acquaintances who had married distant relatives in Turkey, whom they might have met, but with whom they had no relation, but that was because a marriage was used as a method to get new immigrants into Denmark. So on the one hand I had it close to my body that people were more or less voluntarily forced into some marriages to secure immigration to Denmark, and on the other hand I was really sorry that Poul Nyrup Rasmussen had been overthrown and that we had got a blue government that would introduce this 24-year rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141910	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141911	And that is what I think has been the problem with this legislation, because on the one hand it was about restricting Muslims in relation to coming to Denmark, at least that was how the debate was; it was fairly clear that it was about restricting Muslims in relation to coming to Denmark and, on the other hand, it is not possible to prove whether it has had any effect whatsoever in terms of limiting forced marriages, because we must strike down on that. The problem with the proposal here is that you say that there are a few cases of forced marriages, and in order to hit them, you shoot with a shotgun, and then you say that you have to take it out on everyone and you punish collectively. That is the problem with the 24-year rule. It hits more innocent people than it hits those that the intention was to hit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141958	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128141959	In fact, I am not sure that the rapporteur is right. But I want to put it this way: there is only one reason why we have the 24-year rule, and that is that immigration has come to Denmark. If we hadn't had that immigration, there wouldn't have been a single member of this Parliament who had proposed a 24-year rule. In the same way, we have introduced a lot of other legislation in Denmark • fractional pension, income principles in the cash benefits system, the law on the transformation of large non-profit residential areas. It is legislation that we would never have adopted if there had not been immigration. So we are abandoning a few liberal principles, because we need to regulate and deal with immigration to Denmark. The 24-year rule is just one of many examples in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142049	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There's no more short remarks in this round. Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142109	With this resolution, the Free Greens propose to repeal the 24-year rule so that Danish citizens will in future have the freedom to choose who they marry. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we also believe that everyone should be free to choose his or her spouse, and that is why we are fighting against negative social control. We will not overlook the fact that women with an immigrant background feel that they are not free to choose their partner. Having said that, there is much to suggest that the 24-year rule works as intended. This is particularly evident in the fact that resident immigrants and descendants' marriage patterns have changed since the beginning of the millennium. More people marry a resident partner than a partner from abroad. In addition, the age of marriage has increased, and this is important because the likelihood of completing an education increases when the marriage age also increases. In addition, the rules of association of spouses are being examined, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has taken the initiative to review the rules in order to clarify whether they are working properly or whether they are in some areas where they are misguided. In addition, we would like to emphasise that the rules on marriage and family reunification have been one of the important tools for limiting influx and ensuring control of immigration from countries in the Middle East. Finally, it can be argued that the 24-year rule has served as a protection against forced marriages, as the rules have contributed to the marriage of resident young men and women with immigrant backgrounds later, typically after they have completed an education. This gives them better conditions for living a life of freedom and independence without having to depend on a mate. Social democracy therefore does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142244	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142247	Yes, thank you to the rapporteur and, of course, I am not surprised that this is the position of the Social Democratic Party when the Minister has just been up before. I would like to ask the rapporteur about this principle. The rapporteur says in his speech that it is a question of ensuring that immigrant women are not forced to marry someone they do not want to marry. If you do not really want to do the same with this legislation by saying, even if there are some who want to get married, are they not? At the age of 24, you can finish your higher education and enter the labour market. But you can't marry whoever you found because you're 22 or 23, and that's up to us. Isn't that what you're gonna do? I mean, the intention is to give women free choice, but in reality, you take the free choice from women with this proposal or this legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142333	Sir. Sikandar Siddique is right to say that if we were living in a world where there was no negative social control there was rather massive negative social control in large parts of the immigrant environment, then this kind of legislation would not be necessary. Unfortunately, there is a lot of legislation that has been necessary to introduce into Danish society, because immigration, which has been from the Great Middle East since 1983, in particular, has changed our society and given us some of the challenges we face and has created a need to introduce legislation that is not as liberal as it could be if people supported democracy and freedoms and equality between people regardless of their sex and sexuality, or whatever. The fact is that, unfortunately, there are too many people who do not, and that is why this kind of iliberal legislation is necessary, which you will sometimes see misses, where you can see a fully functioning person who could easily have been married at the age of 23, being affected by this because there are large groups we need to protect against negative social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142438	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142439	That is what I am thinking of is the problem of saying that we must now have this strict legislation, and so much legislation has been put in place and shot with dispersal. I hope that we have now arrived at that point when, in the Minister's own words, we are going to move from this crazy legislation to strict legislation. We would like it to be a humanistic legislation. We want one to look at how one can go in and focus on individual cases, so that we hit right and not wrong. In conclusion, the rapporteur said that the rule here has been an effective safeguard against forced marriages. Can the rapporteur document this? Because I've really tried to investigate it, and I can't find any evidence for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142521	Every single time, sir. Sikandar Siddique has the floor, I think, sometimes it might be interesting if there was just a little ability to reflect on some of the integration problems that there are, rather than forever saying the same thing. In English, it would be called whataboutery, and that is probably not to be said here, but what about all sorts of other issues? It is disgraceful that one is never able to talk about the negative social control, which means that there are plenty of women in Denmark who cannot choose their own spouse, that there are young people who dare not jump out as homosexuals, that too many are subjected to violence, too many problems in Muslim free schools are not reported, and what do I know? We have discussed this so many times and there has never been any ability to talk critically about those issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142607	Thank you. I believe that everyone in this Chamber has the ability to reflect. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142629	Thank you for the floor. The 24-year rule has been an effective tool in several respects. First of all, it is an effective tool for combating forced marriages, which we will not accept in Denmark and which are in no way compatible with what we stand for. In addition, the 24-year rule is a decisive factor when it comes to limiting the influx to Denmark. It matters to the cohesion that we have control of how many foreigners are coming to Denmark. Integration must be able to keep up, and it cannot do so if we do not have rules to ensure this. The 24-year rule helps to ensure that the influx is controlled. It creates a framework for family reunification that makes sense. They are tight, but they are fair, and that is the basis of our foreign policy. These are the rules that have come, not because we originally intended them to come, but because they have come as a product of the immigration we have experienced here over generations. The 24-year rule ensures, inter alia, that the total relationship of spouses with Denmark must be greater than their total relationship with another country. This basically makes sense, as there will thus be a greater probability that they know about Denmark, Danish values and our society. Therefore, they will be able to become part of the community and get into work more easily, which is crucial for integration efforts. In addition, the resident who wishes to have his or her spouse reunited must not have received cash benefits for 3 years. This makes good sense as the resident must be able to support the spouse who comes to Denmark. There are far too many examples of immigrants who are on passive support and thus do not contribute to the community. The 24-year rule represents a clear framework and requirements for those who want their spouse brought together in Denmark. It is not liberal legislation, but it is necessary legislation under the impression of the immigration and influx that Denmark has experienced for a long time. With these words, I can say that the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142832	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142835	I will try to ask the same question that I put to the Socialist rapporteur, who then, instead of answering the question, made downright and unpleasant comments about me. I have tried to find out in the drafting of this proposal whether there is any evidence that the law has actually worked in relation to ensuring that girls are not forced into marriage. Is the rapporteur aware of any evidence which supports the claim that this legislation has helped to give women the free choice? Is there any documentation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128142915	I think there is an absence of applied logic to what we are talking about right now. Do we know that it is normal for young girls in the immigrant environment to be forced into marriages? Yeah, we know that. So if we make a rule that says it's forbidden, do we know it's gone? Yes, we do. There's a rule that says it's forbidden. I don't think it's so hard to deduce that this solves a problem that we in the Left and people across Danish society think is very big young people shouldn't be forced into marriages, it's something they have to choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143005	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143007	Of course there is negative social control. I also said this in the debate earlier, that there is negative social control, but also in other environments. But, of course, we have to fight it, and the Greens will fight it, I think, even in the comments. When I ask, that is because what I am calling for here is in relation to saying that the law is not really about the effect being good in terms of limiting forced marriages; it is, of course, about keeping immigration out. When I ask that, it is because I want to say: let us not use this legislation to keep immigration out. Instead, let us ensure that young people today, who are 23, 22, are educated, are strong self-employed, of course they are allowed to choose their partner without having to dictate that they should not, because they are not over 24. That is the purpose of asking the question here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143102	Often the legislation will have more effects at the same time, and that is what we are seeing here. I see this as legislation that I would have preferred to have been outside; I think most of the Folketing would have been. But it is legislation that is necessary because Denmark has been confronted with a problem that has its roots in some cultural patterns that we do not know about here. That is why the questioner is right to say that you solve a problem and hit some people you do not want to hit, but you help more people than you do, otherwise you should not make this kind of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143141	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143155	The proposal is to repeal the so-called 24-year rule of the Aliens Act, so that Danish citizens will in future have the freedom to choose who they marry and who they live with. The 24-year rule dates back to 2002, when the VK government, together with the Danish People's Party, introduced it. The aim of the rule is to prevent family reunification if one of the partners in a marriage is less than 24 years of age. The rule works together with the attachment requirement, economics and housing, and the rule has been a success. In 2016, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration reported the following: Since the year 2000, there has been a halving in the proportion of new dancers of non-Western origin who find a spouse resident abroad. The proportion has thus fallen from 64 per cent. in 2000 to 29 per cent. in 2009, where it has been quite stable since. Women of non-Western origin find to a greater extent a spouse of Danish origin, while men find their spouse abroad to a greater extent. Women and men of non-Western origin also marry later than before. It is hardly surprising to the authors that the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143310	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143327	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the Free Greens for the proposal. I think this is a difficult debate, but it is also an important debate, and I am pleased that it is being taken up here in the Danish Parliament. When the 24-year rule was introduced, we in the Socialist People's Party opposed it. The resistance was based on good arguments, which SF still stands by. Because there are several basically problematic elements about it. Let me mention two of the most important ones here. Firstly, in my and SF optics it is in principle problematic to limit the free love of adults in the way that the 24-year rule does. Normally, in Denmark we stick to the fact that 18 years is the age of majority, and then we interfere to a large extent. In many ways, this is an approach that I think we should try to uphold. Secondly, the rule specifically prevents people in love who have done nothing wrong from being together. Those 6 years of extra waiting from 18 to 24 years may feel like a very long time to wait for a young couple who just want to spend their lives together. That said, we must also recognise the positive effect that legislation has had, especially for a group of young women who are more likely to break social and religious control. The fact that they have a few years as an adult before they can be brought together in a family gives them better opportunities to break out and to stand up to arranged marriages or actual forced marriages. I know from integration workers that I have talked to families and young women with this law in hand have been able to ward off forced marriages by pointing out that family reunification would not take place anyway. And in the research, I can read that the law has probably contributed to the completion of an education by several young minority women..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As a party of feminist values, the freedom of these women is very high on our list when we have to weigh the arguments for and against the law. We cannot abandon these people, and that is why we are faced with a dilemma which makes this debate difficult. Because with all the problematic elements of my optics, which the 24-year rule has and which I have described here, it is SF's position that it has always been that that rule should not exist. And it is in a sense a declaration of failure that one has felt obliged to limit human love in order to eliminate social control. However, we do not want to go back to the time that was before the legislation was introduced. And I have to say it as it is: I would find it extremely difficult that my party was instrumental in a process in which this rule is abolished very suddenly, without putting anything in place, and the consequence will be that more women end up in unwanted, controlling and potentially violent marriages. As I see it, there is therefore a risk that this will be what will happen if we adopt the proposal here as it stands, because nothing is being replaced in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Free Greens. That is why we in the Socialist People's Party would like to propose in committee that a report be adopted which clearly states that the 24-year rule is problematic, but when it is abolished, a number of measures should be taken instead of responding to the challenges posed by abolition. We want the government to set up a group of experts in this area, both in relation to arranged marriages, forced marriages and social control, and it will be the task of the experts to propose what can be replaced by the 24-year rule. We would also like to know to what extent this rule has actually worked or whether other factors have been involved. Because finding cause and effect in this area is not entirely uncomplicated. In addition, we would like to call on the parties of the Folketing to discuss in depth the possibilities for what might be replaced by the rule, because if there are concrete and good proposals, we are very responsive. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143756	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143759	Thank you very much for a very reflected speech that really came around all aspects and, as we also write, we in the Free Greens would like to play our part in putting an end to forced marriages, which are also. However, we cannot punish everyone, as the rapporteur has just said. So Free Greens welcome the position of the SF, and we hope, of course, that the SF will nevertheless vote in favour of the proposal. But the most important thing is that in committee we now find out how we qualify it here, how we work on it here and how we ensure that we can get rid of it here, in my opinion, discriminatory rule, because it affects everyone, and at the same time ensure that we go in such a more tailor-made way and hit the forced marriages that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143853	Yes, I also hope that Free Greens will then come to the committee work with some input into what could be put in place, because that is probably what I miss most about this proposal. Because, as the rapporteur was also able to hear in my speech, we are in principle opposed to the 24-year rule and would like to help abolish it, but we will not do so if we do not put something in place if we do not have a proper process and if these women at risk end up being the victims, so to speak. So if it's just that we have to vote on this proposal in isolation without replacing anything, then we can't support it, but we want to be in a process where the 24-year rule is abolished in a way that at the same time protects these women.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143929	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128143930	I would say that I would be a charmed man if I had the solution to how it is that we could precisely solve this, and I have to admit that of course I do not. If we had it, we'd have solved it a long time ago. I think it must be something to examine first of all how much it seems, how it appears, where it occurs, and also to have some experts look at whether the rule has helped etc. etc. But that is something we take in the committee section, and I would at least like to acknowledge that the SF supports the principle of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144002	Excellent, thank you, and we will provide you with an account that makes some of the points I also depicted here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144009	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And I can see that the next rapporteur from the Enhedsliste is ready. Mrs. Rosa Lund, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144030	Thank you. After all, we have just had the recurring debate on value policy or identity policy, or how to put it, and the so-called value we are discussing with this resolution is about limiting immigration to Denmark, which is also a debate which has been very prominent in this Parliament for the last few decades. Twenty years ago, a majority in here decided, for mysterious reasons, to introduce a rule that would make it very difficult for all Danes to spend their lives with the one they love. The 24-year rule was adopted, and when today we are wondering why we lack labour, one could try to call some of the people who have moved out of the country to be with their spouses and hear what their perspective on that debate is. Do not most people want to answer that the xenophobic attitude and the unfair rules that characterise Denmark are one of the primary reasons why they have chosen to settle elsewhere other than Denmark? Having said that, I know that the 24-year rule was introduced in an attempt to put an end to forced marriages. After all, this is an ambition with which I believe we are all in complete agreement, but as has been the case in the debate, there is no evidence that the 24-year rule has actually stopped forced marriages. During the debate 20 years ago, when this rule was adopted, Mr. Søren Søndergaard a few words, and I think they are at least as topical now. Now Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has left, but I think she might be the only one who can remember it because she was probably here, but I don't want you guys to be cheated on Mr. Kjærsgaard. Søren Søndergaard's point 20 years ago: You can say very badly about the new government, and we are happy to do so in the Enhedslisten. But I do not think one of the bad things is that it puts its foreign policy under the chair. There I think things are said fairly clearly, and we respect that, because that makes it possible for people to judge and see a difference between who has the power and then they can choose from it, and that is what it should be. Perhaps the same could be said about the present government. I quote on from Mr. Søren Søndergaard's speech: With the flood of changes we have seen, it must be admitted that it can be difficult to get an overview of all of them and especially of the consequences. It is quite obvious to the government itself. But the aim of what is being done is quite clear: fewer foreigners must be brought here, and those who come here must at least do more to become part of Danish society. Well, I kind of think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard's point is still valid today. We have just had a debate on this subject, and I am thinking in particular of the spring we had last year when one of the restrictions was introduced after another: new citizenship rules, repatriations to Syria, the establishment of reception centres in a third country. Instead of constantly tightening up in the field of foreigners, I believe that this government should take the lead in cleaning up all the stupid rules adopted in the field of foreigners over the last 20 years. You have, for example. In this context, it should be noted that the government would like to take the lead in recounting apprenticeships in the employment requirement when applying for permanent residence. And there we think that the government could also clean up some of the other rules that exist, and this is one of them. I think that Mr. Carl Valentin gave a very balanced, good speech. Of course, in the Enhedslisten, we would like to support a report, but we also support the resolution as it stands here. If what it takes to obtain a majority is for us to make a report, then we would like to take part in it in the Enhedslisten. Then I have promised to greet the Radical Left and say that they can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144439	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's first, sir. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144444	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten for supporting fully on the proposal. I really look forward to future committee work. Let us see what we can find out, because it seems that both the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Free Greens agree. I'm glad. It is really a pity that the Radical Left is not here because I had actually prepared a specific question for them, but I do not think I should put it to the rapporteur. It's gotta be another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144519	I very much do not want to be represented or taken as an income for Radical Left policy. I'm glad I'm not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144528	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144530	Thank you. In New Citizens we want immigration, which creates a positive effect in Denmark, which thus contributes positively to our society. On the other hand, we also want a foreign policy which ensures that those who are here actually give some value and that, if you commit crime and do not want to comply with our legislation and respect our values, you have to find another place to be. The 24-year rule limits people from getting married before they reach the age of 24 if they do not come from Denmark if they come from a third-world country. We have recently discussed the limit on international labour, and there is Enhedslisten, as far as I understand, against lowering the limit on the amount in relation to some of the countries with which we have good experience. Does the rapporteur not see that there is in fact an opportunity here not to get married? If we change the limit on the amount in relation to the countries with which we have good experience, we may well be able to respond to some of the challenges mentioned by the rapporteur. These are the people who are now in trouble who are married to a foreigner who comes from a country with which we have no problems. They cannot today be allowed to come to Denmark and be with their boyfriend or spouse. Their opportunity to be in Denmark will be better if they find a girlfriend/wife in Canada, USA, Japan.What do I know and want to settle in Denmark, even if they do not earn more than these DKK 360,000, which is our proposal for an amount limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144655	I think this is a relevant question, but the reason why we in the Enhedslist will not help to change the limit is that we are simply afraid that it will push the Danish labour market; that it will mean wage-pressure. That is why we are once again on the other side of Mrs Pernille Vermund's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144715	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144716	If we then return to what Enhedslisten actually wants, namely that we should be able to marry someone under 24 years of age who would then be able to come here, Enhedslisten really believes that the people who come here from these countries who are under 24 years of age will earn more than DKK 360,000. A year? And if they are not to press wages in Danish society, should they just be on passive support?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144741	No, I certainly don't think so. I think it would be quite obvious that we changed the rules on residence permits so that training again counts when applying for a permanent residence permit. I think it would be quite obvious that if you are under 24 years old and come to Denmark and must be part of Danish society, you take an education, but that education must also count on when you apply for your permanent residence permit. That is why, for a rare time, we are happy because the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has responded to us by having to count on one's internship and apprenticeship when applying for permanent residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144816	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. It is noted that the Radical Left has welcomed it. The next rapporteur is ready, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128144832	Thank you, President. I can make this relatively short. We do not support the proposal here. We think that the 24-year rule is a good safeguard against forced marriages and people who use marriage as a stepboard into Danish society. With that said, I agree with the many rapporteurs before me, both from the Social Democrats and from the Left, who actually say that we would rather be this rule in addition, because it also misses the mark. About 15 years ago I was in Argentina for a few months to learn Spanish, and there I met a young Danish man who had met his wife in Argentina. I think they were 22-23 years old and they could not come back to Denmark because of the 24-year rule. It was neither a forced marriage nor anyone who stood outside the community when they came to Denmark on the contrary. In fact, I think that they considered going to Malmö and living there until they were 24 years old and then could cross the border with Denmark. So of course we'd rather have been this rule besides, but there's been a development in our society. We also see this with the ban on cover. In other words, we would rather be without having to legislate on how people are dressed, but because there has been a development in our society where some really think that they should dress in niqab and stand outside society, we sometimes have to introduce legislation that we would rather be outside. But in any case, we do not support the proposal here. But, of course, we understand the intention, which comes from the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145004	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145008	That's too bad, of course. We had hoped that the rapporteur would have said: you know what, we support the proposal. But I'm not surprised. In fact, this is also the debate I want to start with the proposal. So how far we want to go in relation to that saying that the end justifies the means. The problem is, it's a slippery slope. So how far will we go in relation to our values of freedom? The rapporteur says that this is not entirely liberal, but that we have to do it. That is the problem, because it is a slippery slope. Because how far are we gonna go? What are we gonna do next? In the Free Greens, we believe that freedoms in our legal society are absolute and that it is absolutely crucial that we do not start to compromise with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145057	Well, that's the whole essence of it, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique says, but the reality is that we have some challenges due to the large immigration that has been, especially from the Great Middle East, and we need to take this seriously. After all, there has been the whole debate about the two teachers who would not shake hands, and now we see that the municipality, where the school in question is located, will go to court in order not to pay compensation. We could never have imagined that 30-40 years ago. We would probably not have imagined the great extent of forced marriages from the Middle East either, but the reality is as it is, and then we will have to make the difficult decisions we then make here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145134	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145151	The 24-year rule has been created to limit immigration and prevent forced marriages. Why is it? This is the reason given by the comments in the 2002 Bill on the 24-year rule, which states: "Experience has shown that integration is particularly difficult in those families where, in generation after generation, you are taking your spouse to Denmark from your own country or your parents' homeland. In other words, you faced a real integration problem because you had let too many people into our country, who rejected Danish values, who did not take Danish values into account, and who, when they were to marry or primarily had to have their children to marry, chose a spouse of their children in their own country. It was problematic and it is problematic. This is one of the reasons why we have major challenges in our society. That is one of the reasons why we have parallel societies. This is also one of the reasons why women have had to live in forced marriages for years. With this proposal, the rapporteur for the proposers and the rapporteur's party, the Free Greens, will repeal the 24-year rule. We think this is a really bad idea. We do not want to help the problems get bigger. We want to reduce the problems, we want to limit the influx from MEAPT countries and we want to stop it altogether, and that is why we are against the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145324	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145327	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the rapporteur. We do not, of course, agree in this area, but I would really like to ask about the position of new citizens in principle. I know that new citizens are, what can be said, a hardcore liberal party, at least a bourgeois liberal party. Is the policy of foreigners above the liberal side, i.e. that of personal freedom and freedoms? Because that is really what the debate is a little bit about today. One might say: okay, we know that this is contrary to personal freedom and the right to choose, etc., but immigration policy is more important, so we compromise. Will the rapporteur not put it into words?
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145415	I'd love to. And that's a good question. We have a liberal economic policy, but we do not have a liberal foreign policy. We do not have a liberal immigration policy. We are in favour of there being a difference between being a Dane and being a foreigner. And it is also unreasonable for us to distinguish whether you are a foreigner originating in the Nordic countries or in Europe with whom we share a community of values, or whether you are a foreigner originating in countries where experience shows that we find it more difficult to accept people from those countries and nationalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145448	Sir. Sikandar Siddique? There were no further brief comments to the rapporteur. So I would like to thank the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party and to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's point of view. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128145503	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. It was a long day, and I'll try to be brief. Imagine that one can fall in love with people from all the continents of the world, that one can come together with the love of one's life, that one can live under the same roof and wake up to each other's smiles. It is a wonderful ideal, but unfortunately the reality is not for too many Danes, and it is not because a majority in the Folketing has invented a random age limit for love. 24 years you have to be in Denmark to decide your own love. Over the past two decades, this Parliament has adopted one discriminatory immigration policy after another. Symbol policy, discrimination are few words that say most about foreign policy. Politicians, as shown by today's debate, have made life miserable for a lot of people without any good. The 24-year rule is no exception. In the Free Greens, we believe that love is a human right. In a globalised world, we fall in love across continents across ethnicity. Why do you have to be punished if you fall in love like a young person? Why should we be punished if we find love outside Europe? It was said that the 24-year rule must protect against forced marriages, and in the Free Greens we say 'no' to forced marriages. We are fighting for young people to choose their partners themselves, and that is precisely why we are opposed to the proposal. But the 24-year rule is therefore no support for young people, on the contrary. It forces couples apart, it tears the Danes' love lives apart. While living in Copenhagen, she lives in Washington or Islamabad. Every day they miss each other, and the only thing that keeps them apart is a random age limit that politicians in here have come up with. Then the question is of what use. We imagine that we are preventing forced marriages, but the debate has also shown that we have actually seen no evidence of this. It is collective punishment when young Adam has to move away from his Danish family to live in Sweden, so that he can join his wife. It is collective punishment when Thomas has to wait several years to see his American wife lands at Kastrup Airport, and it is collective punishment when Sara's long-distance relationship gets so snowy that she must wave goodbye to the dream of warm love. The 24-year rule does not prevent forced marriages, it punishes the Danes' love life, and it punishes our society. So let's just say as it is: the 24-year rule has always been intended to hit especially Muslim youths. Members of Parliament have never concealed the fact that you have no problem with American or Thai citizens, but Turks, Pakistanis and Somalis are those you do not want in Denmark. This discrimination is a product of 20 years of crazy immigration policy, 20 years in which politicians have tried to press all the xenophobic buttons that you could get close to, and the 24-year rule is one of the buttons. So, ladies and gentlemen, once we were a humanist and inspiring country, today we are asked how we can sleep at night. When the law was passed in 2002, the government could tell people that they wanted to help couples out of forced marriages. Today, all we know is that this was not the case. It is not about helping others, no, the debate clearly shows that it is about keeping people out. The rule is based on a discriminatory thinking that people from Muslim countries are forcing themselves into marriage and cannot integrate into Denmark. But the rule collectively punishes the Danes' love life, and love, friends, is a human right that the state must not suffocate. Cut off the 24-year rule, thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128150004	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220128150016	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 1 February 2022 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
