ParlaMint-DK_20220224100002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews, and because of the many submissions I shall not read out the titles: Rosa Lund (EL) and others.: Bill No. L 140 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Administration. Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 141 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Minister for Health (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 142 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorisation of Public Health and Public Health, the Law on Medicinal Products and the Health Act). Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 143 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the education environment of pupils and students and the law on primary education. the provisions on anti-bulbing) and Bill No. L 144 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Primary School, Law on Free Schools and Private Primary Schools, etc.) and law on post-schools and free vocational schools. Lotte Rod (RV), Ellen Trane Nørby (V), Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF), Gitte Willumsen (KF) and Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF): Motion for a resolution No. B 110 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a psychology training course for teachers and educators). Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 111 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national scheme in which the public contribution to a day-care centre is to follow the child). Ellen Trane Nørby (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 112 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of an equipment pool for vocational training). Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 114 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on more flexible assistance for people with disabilities in connection with the movement between municipalities and after the age of 18). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 115 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on minor discrimination in nightlife). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ban on profits in shelters and women's crisis centres). Lotte Rod (RV) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV): Motion for a resolution No. B 117 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on state guarantees for the establishment and conversion of open nursery and leisure homes). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 118 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the use of test buyers to check compliance with age limits for the sale of alcohol products and other age restrictions). Anne Sophie Callesen (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 119 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on measures to combat discrimination in nightlife). Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 120 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better help for involuntary childless people). Per Larsen (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. B 121 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution guaranteeing the right of all Danes to have their own family doctor and to stop the spread of straw-man clinics in general practice). Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 122 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the certification of interpreters). Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and Morten Messerschmidt (DF): Request no. F 41 (What can the government say about the possibility of having the 34,000 Syrian refugees in Denmark repatriated?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Agenda item 14, Question No 1 F 28 on security policy and independence from fossil energy sources and item 15 on the agenda. R 11 on the Government's foreign and security policy strategy, will be removed from today's agenda at the request of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224100153	If no one objects to the promotion of these questions, I consider the consent of the matter to be given; and then there is also work for us in the coming days, I see. Consent is hereby granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224100329	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224100342	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 84 (S, V, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, ALT, KD and Bent Bøgsted (UFG)), against 19 (SF, EL and FG), abstentions 0.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224100522	It is my opinion that there has now been an opportunity to leave the Chamber so that we can continue the proceedings in a relatively calm and orderly manner. The debate is open. The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224100602	Thank you for that, President. We need to consider a resolution which calls on the government to make the necessary regulatory changes so that public health officials are able to be identified with a unique identification other than the full name of what is called the log display in the medical record. It's a very good move. I totally agree with it. I have to say to the Danish Parliament that we in the Ministry of Health have tried to reach out to the proposers on several occasions and asked whether we really should deal with this proposal, because it is a proposal that we have informed the committee on how we have worked to solve this problem. But the proposers insisted that we should have the debate, so of course we take it. So let me...
ParlaMint-DK_20220224100658	Wait a minute. All this talk down in the corner will have to be outside the Assembly Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224100705	Thank you, President. That is why there is not really any political disagreement in this, and that is only good, one can say. We in the government fully agree that rules should be laid down to enable employees to be identified with what is called a unique identification other than the full name in the log view in the medical record. And in October last year, I informed the Health Committee that the Ministry was uncovering whether and, if so, how such rules could be laid down so as to protect particularly vulnerable health professionals in this log view. And that's what's become possible when you write in the medical records, but now it's the log view it's about. Then I informed the committee on 8 February this year, that is to say a short time ago, that the Ministry of Health, following a dialogue with several consultation parties, including Danske Regions and the Health Data Board, completed this coverage, and the Ministry of Health, as I have also informed the committee, has issued the rules, namely an announcement of the regions' obligation to record log information and access to log information, i.e. what is referred to as the necessary rules in the motion for a resolution. And that is why we thought that, having done these things and informed the committee, it could be said that the purpose of the proposal was then fulfilled. But, of course, you have the right to maintain it, and that is what you have chosen to do. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to tell you a little bit about what this announcement says. First of all, the Regional Council is obliged to make machine registration... it is the logging of all listings in electronic health records. The region must therefore register a log, as it is called the notices made by different health professionals, in an electronic health record. In addition, the logging information shall contain at least the first name and surname of the person who made the posting, authorisation number or cpr number plus the person's title. In addition, information shall be provided on the place where the notice was issued and the time at which the notice was issued. And the regions must ensure that all patients over the age of 15 have access to a clear and easy-to-understand overview of the logging information I have just mentioned, with the exception of the authorisation number and of course also the CPR number of the employee. In this way, patients can keep track of who opens up their records. It's a basic right, a good safety, a major patient right. However, the rules also allow the region, in special cases, not to indicate the name of the health care professional in the log view, but instead to provide a different unique identification • it may be a number, initials or something else. And the region can take advantage of this if it is judged necessary for the protection of a exposed health person, because that is the second important relationship we have here. And in these situations, if the patient asks, the treatment site will have to inform the patient who the person is, unless there is something very special at stake in terms of what is called decisive consideration for other private interests. And what could that be? Well, we know that there are very, very serious and sad examples here. It could, for example, be done. We have had some examples of this, unfortunately, in cases where the patient has threatened the life of the health care professional concerned. There, of course, you have to be able to be protected, and this gives these rules the opportunity to do so. So the model in these new logging rules corresponds to the model for registering in patient records, which was introduced on July 1, 2021, so we now get both the same record keeping and the same practice with who looks up the medical record. And that means that our regions now have the possibility of them being the employers to decide to use a unique identification of healthcare professionals other than their full name, both in connection with record keeping and when displaying log information for the patient. This is health-it, and of course it requires some programming and other things, and technically this option is supported by a central solution, i.e. one central solution that the Danish Health Data Protection Agency will have to make, of course, together with the regions. The solution is also made in such a way that it not only allows for pseudonymisation of health professionals' names in the notice log in the regional medical records, it is what the login notice is about, but it will also look through on other sources, where listings are recorded and displayed, i.e. Common Medicine Cards, A Total Patient Overview and listing in the health journal, which is made via health.dk. So that will be the technical solution to it, and until it is in place, the patient, as is already the case today, will have access to log information indicating the full name by listing in these systems. But when the solution is there, those systems will also be included. The Logging Order will enter into force on 1 March 2022, i.e. here in a few days' time, but the obligation to display log information, including the possibility of using other unique identification in specific cases, will not enter into force until 1 March 2024. And we really do benefit from a very digitalised health system with a really strong basis for patient data, but we also know how complicated it is, and that is why I think it is wise that it is a central solution that comes, and it is also wise that there is the time to develop and implement this technical solution as well. So, as I mentioned at the outset, the government fully agrees that rules should be laid down to enable employees to be identified with something other than the full name of the register in the medical records and, as I have said, arrangements have been made to issue the notice, which will enter into force here on 1 March. And the Health Committee has been informed of this on 8 February. So, to the best of my knowledge, the government is already living up to the content of this motion for a resolution, and the committee is also informed of this. But this is a very, very important issue, which it is, of course, good to discuss. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101333	Thank you. A brief comment on Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101336	Thank you to the Minister for the speech and purpose. Now I have had a few inquiries from the Ministry about whether the Left was not going to withdraw this motion for a resolution because it was actually thought that it had been complied with. Now I am only a modest lawyer, but what we want is for section 3 of the journaling notice to be equated with section 3 of the loging notice, pardon, one paragraph. 12, § 3, and the second § 3. I don't see them being equated with what the government is bringing in. One of these states that who has had the patient contact should be referred to in the record keeping notice and there you can actually use anything other than the full name, whereas here, in the loging notice, which is what the government brings here, there are a great many exceptions in terms of when to use it. So can the Minister confirm that the two, i.e. the log declaration and the record keeping notice, are being equated? Or is it correctly understood that there are exceptions in the logging notice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101440	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101441	Thank you for the question. That's right. Precisely because we had the impression that we have solved the problem here, as I also explained in my speech, so we have tried it is such a normal standard procedure to ask: are you sure that you will deal with this proposal? Because we believe that we have fulfilled it. I have to admit that I found it difficult to follow the paragraphs which were read out here by the rapporteur. I do not want to give any wrong answers here in the Danish Parliament, so I think we should then give the written answers which can assure the rapporteur of what is being asked. On the overall level, I can say that the whole objective of this and the content of it is that the rules that generally apply to who writes in the medical record should also apply to logging, in relation to who looks up the record. So it stays on the overall level. But the individual paragraphs I simply found it difficult to follow here like this on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101544	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101546	Now Question Time is not for me to start reading the two paragraphs. But can the Minister confirm that the record keeping notice and the loging notice, as to whether or not you are allowed to put your name on it, are to be treated in the same way? Otherwise it is a false security that you can do something in one, but not in the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101609	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101610	The model for these new logging rules, i.e. who has looked in the journal, should correspond to the model for registering, in relation to who has written in the medical record, which was introduced on July 1, 2021. The logging part that we are talking about now must correspond to it. So that's the content of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101632	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101634	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I just want to know if the Minister can say anything about whether this is going to be backwards too, so that, when it comes into force, previous health records will also be covered by these identification requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101650	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101651	That is simply what is called a very good question. Let us see if this can be done even if it is technically feasible. I would say that we are all concerned here with protecting those employees who are subject to threats and sometimes not only threats, but things that are also carried out in practice • horrible, horrible cases, which also provide a nasty working environment when you sometimes fear for your life or other reprisals just to do your job as a health professional. We're preoccupied with that. That is the one principle that is absolutely essential. The second principle, which is also important, is of course the patient safety that lies in us being able as citizens to go to www.health.dk and see who has looked up our health register, who has written, who has printed, etc. It is also central and important, and these are the two considerations that we need to weigh up against each other, and I think we are actually going to get that hit here. But whether it may be backwards, I think we should check whether it is technically feasible and whether there are some professional things we should consider there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101758	Good questions are often asked in this Chamber. The Minister for Health Yes, that's right). Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101805	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his introductory remarks on this resolution, which is of course about preventing health workers from being subjected to reprisals. But then there is the matter of logging, and it has to be said that there is another consideration to take, because it would be inappropriate if it were to be the case that one can see that one's medical records have been posted, but that one cannot identify who has made the notices. How do we deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101847	It is precisely those great principles that conflict here, and that is why it is our job to find a solution where they do not collide. There is, in fact, a connection with what we have now introduced in the journal notice, so that means that when that solution is implemented, if you look up and see some initials that show that your health record has been looked at and you want to know who it is, then you should be able to get to know it as a starting point unless there are these particular considerations. If you say at the treatment site that there is a history with the patient concerned it can e.g. If you have specific threats from this patient, it is described in the notice how there will then be special considerations that will make you not have to tell who it is. But if you don't, you're gonna have to tell me who's behind these initials.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101950	Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224101951	The reason I ask that is that we are actually seeing a number of cases where, for example, there are doctors who have their daily time in the hospital, and then they may also do some tasks for insurance companies, and then they make some listings where they go back in people's medical records and look at what is going on, for example. have been of events many years ago, whether there have been some diagnoses or something else that basically does not concern the insurance company. It is, of course, inappropriate somewhere, and that is why I think it is essential that you can identify who has been inside and make an entry in your medical records at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102030	In exceptional cases this is what is described as special cases that you can say as the place of treatment: So we do not give this name. It can, for example, be done. be if a health care professional has been threatened with the life of a patient. It's in special cases. In my opinion, economic conditions, job conditions and so on will not be sufficient to say that the name will not be given to the patient in order to protect the employee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102101	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102103	Well, that fits like a foot in the booths. That is precisely the point of the first reading: we will have all the difficult questions put to us. We believe that the problem in the logging notice is precisely that in specific cases. In other words, a special case is that once things have happened and what we are talking about and we all agree on is that we must be able to prevent these harassments and what is worse. And so I would like to hear: does the Minister not agree that in particular cases it is problematic if we want to prevent it when we are discussing it here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102144	That is where our dilemma is; I recognise that it is a dilemma. This description corresponds to what is in the record-keeping rules, where, if access is requested, the treatment centres can also say that the name can be exempted under these special rules, according to the Public Service Act, if there is a decisive concern for the health of the person concerned. The decisive consideration must of course be professionally justified; it is not the case that I say here from the platform that something quite specific has to be done. However, this is contrary to the second principle, which is also crucially important, namely that there is openness: it is, after all, a crucial premise for confidence in our health system, our health authorities and our health workers. And we have to balance these two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102250	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102252	Well, the desire is to avoid harassment, threats and insecurity, and if you want to avoid it, it has to be done in advance. That is why it must, of course, be defined what specific cases are, as they stand, and that is why we need to try to discuss how we can ensure that the logging rules really mean that we can work preventively in relation to harassment, threats and insecurity. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102324	I mean, the model looks like the one we have in the journaling rules that I mentioned earlier. It doesn't have to be tied up on anything concrete. Now it was an example I used in my speech and my answer here; when there is a concrete threat and a concrete thing, it is obvious. But it can also be a little more general if there are special circumstances, it can be said, more generally, that then you opt out a little in advance, in other words precisely to prevent. But it is equally important that the second principle is observed, namely that you as a patient have the right to gain insight into who is treating you and who is seeing your health data.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102405	Thank you, Minister. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102413	This was the last time I took the floor, so that is why I pressed in so late; I am sorry, President. There does not need to be a concrete threat, but it can happen preventively. With regard to the fact that a person may be told that he or she cannot obtain this information because it is estimated that he or she may at some point be threatening someone or something else, who has the right to store that information and make that decision? And does the person who cannot obtain that information have the right to know who has made this decision that he or she cannot have access to this information?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102451	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102452	Those who make the decision are, after all, the management at the place of processing in question, and this is in fact in line with the rules that we introduced and that I saw there was a great deal of support for, in relation to the rules on record keeping. It is, in fact, a comparable situation that we are introducing there. Now it is just a matter of logging, but in principle it is exactly the same principles and practical things that will apply. Anyway, it's the treatment site that makes the decision. Of course, it can also be complained of, and it will be for the Board of Patient Complaints to complain about it. So you have an opportunity to complain.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102534	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102536	Okay, that's exactly what I wanted to know, because if you can't know why, then you've lost a right as a citizen that you can't get back. But you can get that through a right of complaint. So I'm glad that part's in it. That's what I asked if you've gotten into the new one too. I hear you have, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102556	Yes, we do. And I think that again it very well shows the very difficult dilemma that we face, with two very, very important principles that face each other: to protect employees who are so exposed to very, very hard and unreasonable pressure and who must be protected, but also to be vigilant about some crucial rights that you have as a patient, to know who is treating you, who is printing you, who is seeing your patient data. And I think we're hitting it pretty precisely in relation to these two scales.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102627	Then we can thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. And we are in the process of the rapporteur's round, first of all it is Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224102649	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Left for raising the debate on how to ensure better conditions for our healthcare staff. Every day, thousands of skilled workers go to work in health care: doctors, nurses, social pedagogues, social and health assistants and many others. They are entitled to a good and safe working environment. These are employees who sometimes work with violent and outgoing people, for example in the field of psychiatry. Unfortunately, we regularly hear stories about serious threats and violence and about employees who have been sought out at their private address. And, unfortunately, in rare cases, we hear about killings. That is why, of course, we must constantly consider whether we can do more to protect employees. At the same time, there is another consideration that we must also be aware of, namely the fact that as a patient you can gain insight into the information that is recorded about yourself and insight into who else has had access to that information. These are important patient rights that we must hold on to. So it's about finding the right balance. We had the discussion here in the Danish Parliament last year in connection with patient records. Last year a new journaling notice was introduced, allowing employees to be registered with a so-called unique identification other than first name and surname. There may be situations in which, on request, the name of the person covered by the initials in the medical record has to be provided in order, for example, to guide the patient properly. However, we will reduce the risk of patients acting in effect against employees. The proposal from the Left, as I understand it, is about introducing the same option in relation to a future logging notice. However, it seems to me that the proposers are trying to kick in an open door. As far as I can see, that is exactly what the Minister for Health has already proposed in a new decree. The new logging notice, which is to enter into force on 1 March 2022, states, inter alia, that in specific cases the Regional Council may decide that, instead of first-name and last-name information, the patient will have access to other unique identification of the person who made a notice. The Minister of Health writes in a letter to the Danish Parliament's Health Committee that the new model in logging corresponds to the model introduced last year in connection with the medical records. That is precisely what the Left is calling for when the comments on the motion for a resolution state that the same possibility must be introduced in the future logging notice. We can therefore fully support the intention of the proposal, but at the same time we wonder a little because we believe that the proposal has already been complied with in the notice which comes into force on 1 March. Of course, in future we must also maintain a strong focus on ensuring good, proper working conditions for our many health workers. I hope we can get together in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103110	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103113	Thank you for your support. However, I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. As I understand the rapporteur, the rapporteur also wants the same thing as the Left, namely that the journal notice and the log notice are equivalent in this area. If that is not the case, because it is not the case that one could hear the Minister say a clearly resounding 'yes' to the fact that that is what is being equated, does the rapporteur agree that it will then be a false security, i.e. if the two are not equated?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103146	Thank you for the question. As I understand the annex which we, as rapporteurs, have read and which the Minister for Health has sent to the Health Committee, Annex 192, it says that the model corresponds to the model for the record keeping in the medical records introduced on 1 July 2021, when a revised record keeping notice came into force. The regions will thus be given the opportunity to decide to use other unique identification, both for the record keeping and for the display of logging information for the patient. So I think it's there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103235	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103238	Well, if you read Section 12, pcs. 3, in the journal notice and according to section 3 of the log notice, it is not the same thing as it says. So I'm just asking again: if these two things are not equated, will it not appear a little like a false security that you can see something somewhere, but that you can see something more somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103302	I do not understand that, but let us now ask the question as a committee question, and let us have what the Minister for Health has already sent over in the resolution, so that we have the material gathered and any further questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we can go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103333	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left for making the proposal. I would like to stress at the outset that public servants must always be able to go to work safely, and that is the reason for the proposal put forward by the Left here, and the SF fully agrees with that. Management is obliged to ensure a safe and health-friendly working environment; it is also an important law to rely on here. Digital records aim to ensure patients' insight into the considerations and decisions and actions taken in the healthcare sector. Information must benefit mutual trust between employees and patients. A lot of patients are happy that they can inform themselves about what was, the doctor or nurse or the social- and health assistant just said, and that is really good. In the same way, the report is also an important safety for employees who are responsible for the treatment of patients. More digitisation has also made it a little more difficult, because it also means that our personal health data is more sensitive to unauthorised access to our data. For example, it is now not only the staff in the local department who can access journal data, but everyone else in all the other departments of the region can do so. I mean, an ex-boyfriend or a curious neighbor or a whole other person can look up patients in the digital records as easily as nothing. Patients should be able, as the unconditional rule, to trust that we manage data safely. However, there are also exceptions, and unfortunately we have seen examples of this, and every time a patient experiences that confidence is broken, it costs strength to rebuild it, and that confidence is so important to safeguard. That is the balance that we need in further work on digital health data. With digitalisation, the journal has also become a contract between employees and patients, a document which also defines relations and cooperation agreements. The doctor is not always right, although the doctor has a great deal of knowledge about investigation and treatment, and everyone who has worked in the health sector knows that patients do not always agree with the conclusions of health professionals. However, experience also shows that dialogue can create a basis for consensus, and I therefore also recognise that if we do not succeed with a common understanding of the treatment, there is a basis for conflict, and we must do this in two ways from the perspective of the SF. Firstly, we must strive even more to ensure that healthcare professionals gain recognition for patients of the considerations and treatments that can subsequently be read in a journal, and secondly, we must also learn to use the journal notice, which can allow local departments and managements for exceptions for names in journals. And then the law on working conditions must be followed. The management is responsible for preventing and ensuring that the work can be carried out in full safety and health terms, but we must also succeed in doing so without suspecting all patients. On behalf of the SF, I would like to promise that if there are still challenges after the latest announcement in terms of succeeding with the prevention, we must of course have looked at how we can do it, but we should do so without making rules where we risk suspiciousing all patients at once. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103751	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103753	I would like to sign for the promise that SF made here at the end of the otherwise excellent speech. Then I just want to ask quite quietly whether SF now, when we have adopted the excellent set of rules over in the journaling notice, does not think that we should have the same excellent set of rules over in the loging notice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103818	Now I do not think it is the SF that has adopted anything. However, I believe that the health authorities have made an announcement precisely to prevent what this proposal is also about. I have heard the rapporteur ask this question many times this morning. For me, it is perfectly clear that journal and log are being followed, because the person who writes in the journal is also the one who logs in. So, of course, the two things go together unconditionally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103846	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103849	I just want to sign and say thank you for the last. We fully agree with this: the logging and the announcement must be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103855	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224103921	Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, an important issue that we need to discuss again here today, so thank the proposers for addressing this issue. In the Radical Left, we share the concern of our health workers, who have, after all, been stories of harassment, threats and, unfortunately, worse things from patients to the health care professionals who are responsible for their treatment. Of course, we have a duty to protect our healthcare workers, and then we also have a duty to guarantee patients' rights, including the ability to see who has accessed our very sensitive health information. After all, these are the two conditions that the Minister also mentioned we must balance in the regulatory framework. So I fully agree with the proposer on what the proposal is about here. Of course, we need to protect our employees, and I can also hear that this is something that everyone else in this Chamber agrees with. My understanding was also that the Minister in dialogue with all the relevant actors • Danske Patients, Medical Association, Danish Regions etc. I have read the notes, I have read the letters that have been transmitted, and that is how I understood the rules. But I can understand from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard that there is a concern over two paragraphs: are they identical? Do we have a hole here? I think it is important to find out whether there are any corners left to be covered here; whether there are any shortcomings in the legislation. I have also pointed out something about the time frame myself. I think that is what we should do in committee, because we all have the very same interest in protecting both patients' rights and the lives and health of our employees. So I look forward to asking in committee about these issues, asking the relevant questions and getting an answer as to whether there is a problem. If there's no problem, we can all be happy. Of course, if there is a problem, we must resolve it, because of course the rules must be the way we all intend to be. If they are today, I can't answer that question. I cannot answer the question of the two paragraphs. I am leaning on the notes that have been sent to us, but I think we should ask about it, and then we have to find out in committee if there is more work here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104130	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Did someone come? There is a brief comment from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104140	I just wanted to sign up for the very fine speech and say that I agree with the rapporteur that there are many things we need to clarify so that we can hopefully get this right. That is also what I heard the rapporteur say, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104156	Thank you for that, and that is also what I hear everyone say, so I expect that we will be resolved in committee if there is anything to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104204	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104213	Thank you for making the proposal. The Enhedslisten is fully in line with the resolution to ensure that all public employees in our common healthcare should be able to go safely to work and feel safe even when they are off duty. It is obviously a complex area and difficult problems. You can hear that when you ask questions to the Minister. This requires more and more than just logging rules and journaling notices. We have also heard this from several rapporteurs. It is both about guaranteeing patients' rights and legal certainty and about ensuring that staff feel safe and should not be afraid of their own or their family's safety. With this resolution, we are discussing something very concrete and technical that is very important. We are pleased with the staff of the psychiatrist in particular, but also from other parts of the public sector who have called out about these problems, so thank you for that. And we know from discussions with you that we are very much in agreement with your wishes, as well as that you definitely have a look that this should both provide greater security for employees and prevent threats, harassment and violence, but at the same time also do so in a way that does not compromise patient safety and legal certainty. In the Enhedslisten we support the intentions of the proposal and fully agree that it must and must be possible to get both journaling and logging systems to display unique identification other than the full name. The report and the log must, of course, be treated in the same way. I think that has been said a few times now, according to the rules and practice. At the same time, technical solutions must be made in a way that allows you as a patient to obtain relevant information and to be sure that your personal data is not sniffed out, but that data is only used in therapeutic contexts. We think it is very good that the government is now making the log declaration, but we are, as I said just now, concerned that the reservation relates to specific cases. It provides for ensuring that employees can only use identification other than their full name in special cases. After all, the aim is to prevent harassment, threats and insecurity, and if the rules are only to be changed in case something happens, then it is too late. We want to prevent harassment and that insecurity occurs at all, and we therefore believe that we must be able to find solutions that ensure employees even before the damage has been done, as it were. Of course, the same rules should apply to records and logging, and how this can be done, we want to look into the committee's work. And then we hope that we will be able to arrive at a joint report ensuring that the safety of staff and patients' rights goes hand in hand with a solution that really prevents the problems. But thank you for the proposal and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104532	There is a brief comment from Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104534	I will sign for the fine speech, and as I have actually said a few times before: when the Enhedslisten and the Left are close to agreeing, the government should listen. I know that the rapporteur, like me, is very concerned about the working environment of health workers, and so I would like to hear whether the rapporteur can once again put a little more words on where the concerns of the rapporteur are in what the government has brought in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104607	That is, of course, what has been mentioned by several people, namely that this applies in specific cases. And if that is the case in special cases, then the case must arise in such a logical way. Therefore, how can one make a rule that talks about special cases, and then be sure that we can use the preventative one. The two principles do not really talk together, and therefore it is important that we try to find models that can work in this area, so that it is also really preventative, otherwise we will not be able to solve harassment, threats and insecurity. And I am also pleased that the Left has discovered that the Enhedslisten actually has a sensible attitude in a number of areas. It would be a good thing to pay more attention in the future to this in the Liberal camp as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104655	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104656	I would just like to sign, firstly, what the rapporteur said, and then say that I hope we can land it here in a joint report. We would certainly appreciate that from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104711	Yeah, that's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104716	We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104723	Thank you for that, President. And I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for presenting this proposal, which we support in its basic substance. It should be safe to be able to go to work, whether it is health workers working in the somatics or in the psychiatric system, which I have had several inquiries about. But there must also, like other public servants, be parity. I am thinking of the fact that we have both the police who may be exposed, we have prison officers, we have social workers and other professional groups who also run the risk of being subjected to reprisals that make them insecure and stressful, and in general make it perhaps uncomfortable for them to do their job. We must be aware of this. But it also says, as several other rapporteurs have said, the legal certainty of the citizens, in relation to who goes in and looks at your file, and in general there are several different elements of this which must be taken into account. And that one with the different paragraphs, of course, we must have drilled out so that there is continuity and there is nothing that speaks against each other. That is why I am also looking forward to the committee reading, in which we can then make things more clear, so that we are quite sure that there are no shortcomings in the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104859	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224104913	Thank you. Thank you to the Left for raising this issue and thank you to the Minister, because, as I understand it, one is fully prepared for this to be a problem to be resolved. So I am actually looking forward to having a joint report on how this is to be done. But the discussion and discussion are, in any case, important. Because this is the field where you can say that there are some digital information that you can get, but the core of this is essentially two parts. One is that the basics of health professionals and other public personnel must be safe and secure to go to work, and that it must be safe and secure when it comes to the fact that you cannot look up information if you want to hunt down an employee. Conversely, we must also ensure the security and security of those patients and citizens who have a right to know who is looking at your information and who can do something about it. So one thing is that we are doing these things to protect employees, but at the same time, of course, we must also look at how we ensure that we maintain the right of citizens to obtain the information, and the best thing is that we should talk about how to prevent it, that it seems that someone is threatening or practicing violence or even murdering employees. 'Cause that's what we're looking at around here. We are currently looking at television stories from psychiatry, where it is not a question of going in and looking at some data, but it is a question of meeting citizens, patients and being subjected to violence and abuse in different ways in practical everyday life. So I think there is really an opportunity to discuss how we do something about it, how we ensure that there is space and space and order in relation to prevention. Of course, part of the prevention is not to be open in relation to the fact that every citizen can see any information about the employee, so that you can hunt employees at the home address, which we have seen examples of. But something else is also how we ensure that there are the resources, the opportunities and the frameworks needed to feel that it is safe and safe to go to work, and I know that this discussion goes a little beyond the specific resolution. But I also think that this is one thing that we need to address together here, and I hope that we can discuss this further in committee afterwards. But the purpose of this is fully supported by the Danish People's Party, and I hope, as was also said, that we can jointly make a report and get this done well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105154	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105156	I would just like to acknowledge the rapporteur's very fine speech. The Left also hopes that we can land it here in a really fine report, and we would very much like to take the discussion that the rapporteur has also mentioned with regard to how employees can go safely to work and feel safe, even when they are off duty.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105214	I'm glad to hear that. Then I expect us to get a good result from the work to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105220	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105226	Thank you. After all, it is a delightful atmosphere, which is this morning, with brotherhood, solution orientation and everything, and it is wonderful to be a part of it. I shall be brief: let us look at the paragraph and if there is anything there, it must be corrected. I also hear that the Minister is open to look at that, and then we look at it in committee. What I might like to see if we just turned around when we were in the process and that is, of course, in the area of justice... are some of the judgments that have been made. There were some restrictions right here in 2016 and in 2019, and we could look at those judgments. One thing, of course, is prevention, and we also know that if the penal framework in this area is not quite as it should be, then maybe it can be some of the things that make people say: I'm just getting a fine for this, and it doesn't matter that much. But if there was a harder sentence, people might think twice about it. So I would like to hear from the committee just what the average sentences are, what they really are for some judgments that people get. Because there's a difference between threats and harassment... I'm aware of that... but what's it really taken for us to judge these people? Is it just a fine, or are prison sentences suspended? Are there also unconditional prison sentences? What are the real consequences of this harassment? Because that's the other part of it. So I think it is also important that we get a visit, and this is perhaps a good opportunity to look at it, i.e. whether it is as it should be. So it has to be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105345	There is a brief comment from Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105348	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur. Because it seems that the rapporteur is very solution-oriented, and we think that is only nice to hear. So it was just a praise, and I hope that we can land it here in a common place together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105405	That did not give rise to comments, but praise! Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105425	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution is based on the idea that public employees should be able to go safely to work and feel safe even when they are free, and as a means of doing so we propose that public employees in the health service should be able to be identified with a unique identification other than the full name in the login view in the medical record. We have experienced tragic deaths and we have evidence that healthcare professionals have been sought out at their address or threatened on social media. In the spring of 2019 the doctor Charlotte Asperud was killed in his home, and during the trial it emerged that the man who was found guilty of the murder had printed his journal on health.dk and had crossed the doctor's name and a number of other doctors' names underneath. In recent years, public employees have become more vulnerable when they go to work. Electronic journaling and logging have made it possible for patients to have easy and continuous access to their records at all times and without delay, where the employees appear with full name. The many concrete examples of patients who have sought out staff or threatened health professionals on social media, and the assassination of the doctor Charlotte Asperud, have led to increased insecurity among health professionals. It is important that we listen to their concerns and that we find a solution so that health professionals can go safely and safely to work. For the Left, it is important that we safeguard and strengthen the rights of health professionals and ensure good and proper working conditions. The motion for a resolution has been tabled following a long-awaited amendment of the law in the Log Order. The problem with the legislation is that it does not change how the employee is registered in the log systems. This means that when a patient sees a service number in the file, he or she can access the log system and see the full name. That's just not gonna work. The position of the left is clear: public employees must be able to go safely to work and feel safe even when they are off duty. We need to find a solution for everyone. Patients should, as a rule, know who they are being treated with, while health professionals are entitled to take care of their work, and therefore it should be possible for health professionals to have a unique identification other than their full name. Then what I have written in my speech afterwards is that I would like to appeal to the health rapporteurs for us to sit down together and look at it, but as I have heard today, I would like to say that I am very, very optimistic. Because it seems that all the health rapporteurs are interested in us dealing with this issue. So I would like to thank you for that from up here from the platform in general. The government would have actually had us in the Left take off this resolution because the government already believes that they have come up with a solution. But as I can also hear that more people have come to realize in here, the government has probably not fully achieved its goal. That is why I hope that we can end up in common, and the government will be very happy to join in. At least we're not keeping anyone out of here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105742	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105758	The debate is open. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224105811	Thank you. The Left proposes here with B 62 to instruct the government to invite the parties to negotiations on initiatives to ensure a more lenient signage legislation to make it easier for local entrepreneurs, associations and institutions to set up relevant signs in order to strengthen activity outside the larger urban communities. However, the rules on signs that we have today represent a balance between different considerations. On the one hand, of course, local operators should not be unduly restricted in advertising their businesses. On the other hand, Denmark has a long tradition of protecting our landscape from being patched up with signs. In Denmark we have had rules on signage in the open country since the first conservation law of 1917. This is due not only to considerations of the Danish landscape but also to considerations of road safety. In 2016, the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party entered into a better balance-sheet agreement, i.e. a plan agreement. As part of that agreement, a service review was carried out on the rules of the Nature Conservation Act on outdoor advertising and the rules of the Road Labelling Order on commercial service signs. The prospection then led to a relaxation in the nature protection law's rules on signs in 2018. A change that both the Left and the Government voted in favour of. The aim of the amendments was to give citizens and private companies and public authorities better opportunities to set up signs advertising tourist destinations, local professions, etc. and short-term events in the open country. Among the relaxations were: better opportunities to put up signs for seasonal sales of fruit and vegetables, better signs for sales for business reasons, better signs for flea markets and sports events, etc., and the Government believes that these changes have achieved a good balance between landscape and nature considerations in terms of opportunities to support growth and development outside cities by enabling locals to advertise. In addition to the amendment to the Nature Conservation Act, the rules on commercial signage with the review in 2018 were subject to extensive simplification. It was also based on a desire to provide greater opportunities to separate local businesses and tourist attractions in order to promote growth and development throughout Denmark. The rules on commercial signs fall under the Ministry of Transport's road marking notice and are in fact based on two main considerations: 1. the possibility of marking the type of undertaking and as many company names as possible; 2. traffic and road safety, i.e. mainly so that there is not enough information to enable road users to read and relate to them. With the change it is possible to set up signs from more busy roads than before 2018. The rules have also allowed a wide range of companies and attractions to get a signage from roads in local areas. The conditions for signage are similar, and so it has also been taken into account that everyone can have commercial signage, so the government believes that the current rules provide the right balance, also in relation to signage conditions and road safety considerations. So, on behalf of the government, we cannot support the proposal, on the grounds that the current rules must both ensure an appropriate balance between opportunities for growth and rural development by enabling local operators to advertise, but also the very, very important consideration of protecting our landscape and of course also ensuring road safety. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110219	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110222	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that the Minister also does not want to patch up the landscape with large signs, neon advertisements, etc., because nobody here in the Folketing wants to. What we are talking about here is relaxing a little so that sensible signs can be promoted. This is due to the fact that we have a goal of a coherent Denmark in better balance, and there are many places in Denmark where you miss a sign that can point to important local activities. Let me mention something like the Blicherggens Museum in Thorning, which has a sign on route 13, which is a state road, but they must not have a sign from the Kjellerup side, so you can find the museum from that road, because there must be only one sign for such a museum. That's ridiculous and rich. And I can give you other examples. What we're just asking for is for us to have a debate about relaxing these rules a little bit, so they're not so square. Can't the Minister promise we'll have a talk about it politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110321	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110321-2	There are, in fact, two things to say about that. The first is that you have to make up for yourself where you think the balance is. There we have done this service review of the rules, and it has been given a few more opportunities. Moreover, this also applies to the example given and these are opportunities that are similar throughout the country. I think that is quite reasonable. The second thing to say about it is whether we can have a talk about it. That is what we are doing in this Chamber today. But there are also plans for negotiations, and the Left can lift them. That does not change where the government stands, but it is a perfectly legitimate political view to have. I just think it is important to emphasise that what we want to do is to ensure that we take good care of our landscape and avoid what we see in many other countries and, of course, also take account of road safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110411	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110413	I agree with that. It's not like we're going to the other ditch. We are talking about a small adjustment for the benefit of the activities that are out there. Another example is the mayor of Vordingborg, who is also a social democrat, who was reported to the police because there was some signage placed close to the motorway in something that is a business area where there is both a petrol tank and a restaurant and other business companies. There it was suddenly deeply illegal that the municipality had established an advertising column. This is, of course, deeply incomprehensible to Vordingborg Municipality. So do I. These are the things we are asking for us to look at, so we have common sense paired with the rules we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110451	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110453	I always cheer for common sense. I think that is a good political principle. It's hard to get into specific cases here. That's where we have authorities assessing this type of case. Company advertising may, of course, be set up in close association with the companies, but must not be dominant in the landscape. That is where the balance has to be struck. But it was under the former government where Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's party sat with the government that this service was done and where these relaxations were made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110527	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we can start the rapporteur's round. We'll start with sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110542	Thank you for that, President. We have a very good and long tradition in the Parliament's Rural Committee to travel around and visit all parts of Denmark. Years ago we went to Lolland for a trip, and we looked, as we always do when we're out, at dilapidated houses that were to be demolished, and we also looked at the production of good local food. It took place on a property called Knuthenlund, located northeast of Maribo. While we were watching the good cheeses and sausage, as there are, the woman who drives it, her name is Susanne, told about the many visitors who came by, and also about how many could have come by if there had been a sign that showed way up from the main road. After all, we all agreed on that at the time. I don't know if that was the only reason, but at least an agreement was made in 2016, and in 2018 a law was passed broadly here in the Danish Parliament that makes it possible to separate a little more out in rural areas than was previously possible. Those of us who live out there in the countryside and love nature and the environment in which we now live would also like to have both ourselves, the guests who come and tourists who come out there, find their way around and experience everything we have to offer. After all, this requires balanced consideration both of nature and of the need for signage, and we believe that this balance has actually been found in the law we have and as it stands today. That is why we do not see the need to turn it around any more, whether it needs to be changed or not. So, with this in mind, I must inform you that the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I have also promised to say from the Radical Left that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110749	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110752	Thank you, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen for one, I think, quite a good speech and then it went wrong towards the conclusion. 'Cause I can hear that, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen has the same understanding that it is of great importance for rural areas and villages in particular that you can make sensible signs for what is going on, so that there can also be some life outside the big cities. I feel a deep understanding of that. I am also pleased with the achievements we have had thanks to the Rural Committee, but I can only give some concrete examples of the fact that something is still missing, and that is just what the Left is asking for, i.e. that we make a mapping of it and a debate on whether or not we can find a solution to it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110833	Thank you for your commendation. I think these are the trips I've been with our good colleague, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, who may in fact have also helped to pull the strings while we had a left-wing government, in relation to precisely doing something about these things. So that is absolutely right and I do not disagree with the fact that there should be the right signage out there, but I also believe that the balance should be there. You can always discuss whether the border is in the right place. Now, with this motion for a resolution, the Left is trying to move the line a little further, and I would just like to say that I think that everything else is right at the moment. And then maybe I can just refer to the Minister's speech and say that if the Left really wants something with this, it might be an idea to include it in the negotiations that are about the bill of intent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110927	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110928	Thanks for the advice, and we'll do that. We're actually planning on doing that. But balance is important, whether we are talking about signage or national parks, balance is always important. I just want to ask if Lennart Damsbo-Andersen knows the case down from Vordingborg where the mayor was reported to the police. Does the rapporteur think that this is a sensible way of dealing with a mayor who has just made some sensible signage in relation to a business area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224110956	I am thinking of the particular case that the reason why the mayor was reported to the police is, of course, that the mayor has not complied with the instructions given to move the sign. He could've just done that. He is a good social democrat, and I think he is also usually sensible. What you see now is that the sign is and I just think that it was stupid, to put it bluntly, and I do not know if you can say anything like that, President, but it was really stupid that the mayor did not make sure that it was corrected in the first place so that he could not be reported to the police. Common sense also needs to be used, and I would say, if I may just take a little longer on this, that I also think common sense has actually been applied in relation to the way the law is now arranged.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111043	Then time was well exceeded. There's one more question, and it's from Mr. Knox. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111051	Thank you. I really feel a little obliged to stand up for my good colleague on the Rural Committee. Recently I was on Lolland myself, and on my way to the ferry, Spodsbjerg-Thår, I wanted to visit Frederiksdal Cherry wine. When I came from the Lolland side, I could see a nice little brown sign for Frederiksdal Cherry wine where I could drive in. But what I could understand was that if I had come from the other side, I wouldn't have seen a sign because of these signage rules. Will Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen does not agree with me that exactly in such a few cases, which are what we are talking about here, it would be good for the government to call for a debate so that we can adjust the details? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111137	Now I know that place, and it was nice that the rapporteur should come to Lolland, it is a good place, and Frederiksdal's cherry wine is an excellent wine and also a great export product. I now think that, in relation to that signage, it is more about Frederiksdal Cherry wine perhaps having to talk to the municipality about the sign being placed in such a way that you can read it from both sides and not just from one side. However, we should not change legislation on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111206	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111207	I just noticed that it was said there that it could not be seen from the other side, and if it is a issue, I think we should have a discussion on it and get it over with and move on, as it were.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111222	Well, I can only approve of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111226	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line. Now it's sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111237	Thank you. I have been given a speech by the SF rapporteur, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who could not be here, so I will read it out: first of all, I would like to thank the Left for putting forward the proposal, which argues for relaxing the legislation on signs outside the largest cities, because this could lead to increased activities. Here it is worth considering why we have the rules on advertising in the open country. First of all, it is to ensure that the countryside is protected. There are already a number of exceptions to the prohibition in the legislation, thus allowing for the possibility of distinguishing local activities. It's only been three years since the rules were last changed. The changes made it easier for local traders to sign. The rules were adapted on the basis of the recommendations of the service inspection in 2017, which made it easier to sign in connection with sales for certain business reasons and different types of events. As I understand it, the changes resulted in a number of companies, sights and attractions having more opportunities for signposting from roads in the area of the local area and to set up signs from more busy roads than there were with the rules from before 2018. In fact, I think it is too early to change the rules again, and we believe in the SF that the rules should remain restrictive. That is why we cannot support the sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111358	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111418	Thank you. Let me state straight away that the Enhedslisten is opposed to the resolution in question. We are against this because we want clear protection for the open country from the development of a sign forest. In fact, we think it is a good thing to keep, if I may say so, the market out of the wild and out of the open country. The horror scenario or the scare picture here is of course • which in fact also the proposer himself refers to the United States. And even if you take all sorts of reservations in the motion for a resolution that this is not what you want, and so on, then this is an attempt to push the border one more time. It is true, as the SF rapporteur also pointed out, that it is no more than three years ago that we changed the rules and where we actually relaxed them. It was Enhedslisten against then, and now we have to relax again. I'm just thinking that this probably never ends until there's a full bang on, and until there's a full right to sign almost what you want. So this motion for a resolution simply does not work. There is also in the legislation in force and it also came with the concessions in 2018 • derogation clauses. And yes, there can surely be examples of unfairness with regard to signage. I guess there can always be when we make some restrictions on an activity. But we actually think that the whole is in order and we in the Enhedslisten are in favour of a very restrictive practice in this area. As I said, the rules were actually simplified and relaxed in 2018 for the benefit of local businesses, and also for sights, attractions, regional museums, etc. could advertise. Nevertheless, we do not think that we should continue to relax these rules, because it is a slippery path that we have touched upon in our opinion and it is likely that it will continue. And then there's the whole road safety aspect, which I think also plays a major role. It is simply pointless for drivers on our roads, whether they are motorways or highways, or for that matter local roads, to be confused, if I may say so, by a sign forest. And I repeat: I fully agree that all possible reservations are made that this is not what you want. But that's what you want anyway, and now we're just taking one more step. That's what the Left wants us to do. The Enhedslisten is against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111727	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111730	Thank you. Well, that's always interesting to hear, sir. Henning Hyllesteds speaks here in the Parliamentary Chamber because they often have such a more ideological character. Nor does it deny it here today, when I understand that it is like keeping the market out of rural areas. That's an interesting point of view. This means that you can only make money in the larger cities, you can understand the position of Enhedslisten. But otherwise, I'd like to ask, if not, sir. Henning Hyllested understands that if you have a small regional museum that would like to have some visitors it could be the Blicherggens Museum in Thorning, and it could be many other places in the country it is strange that you can only put a sign in one direction so that you attract people from one direction. Now it is in Thorning specifically route 13 that goes between Viborg and down towards Vejle. But you can't put a sign 5 km east, where you could have had many visitors by having a sign on the road between Viborg and Silkeborg, at Kjellerup. Isn't that weird? Is that something that is really a problem? Is that it, sir? Henning Hyllested calls a sign forest that in some places you get to set up just one more sign?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111836	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111837	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, there can certainly be examples of absurdities and things that are not so appropriate. This might be one of them. I haven't been to the locality, so I can't exactly say that, but it might sound like it was one of them. But that does not mean, in our opinion, that we should just let go and that we should just relax the rules once again. For as I say: Now we relaxed in 2018, and now the Left wants us to relax again. Then maybe it'll be another three years, and then we'll have to relax again, and that's what we're gonna do. Like I said, we're on a slippery slope. I do not think that the small regional museum or other attractions and sights around it are going to suffer greatly because you cannot just sign in the place you want to be allowed to sign. There are so many opportunities today, including digital ones, to find out what it is you want to visit and what it contains. So I don't think this is necessary because it has so many other bad consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111944	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224111946	I would like to stress once again that this is not a question of kicking off. It's about relaxing a little bit where it's common sense. Well, we could make a list of that, so we've got our hands on it. But there are so many small museums I have visited some of them myself who begged if they could not be allowed to sign a little better. Because the prerequisite for them to have visitors is to be able to find them. So that's just what we're talking about. There are also plenty of other cultural heritage around Denmark • the magnificent old water mills, for example. and other things people would like to visit. That's just what we're talking about. We can make a positive list so we don't let go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112020	Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112021	I simply do not believe that it is essential for regional museums, water mills or what it could be around. I simply do not believe that it is essential for them to be able to sign the nearby road to get visitors. There are so many options. In the case of the municipality concerned or the local area concerned with tourist organisations and what is there, you will probably be part of a community in advance. As I said before: there are so many digital opportunities today to draw attention to themselves as well, so I do not believe that it is essential that you can be allowed to sign and disrupt traffic at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112059	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur there are no more brief comments. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112105	Thank you very much. As a self-employed person, I know all about this advertising and advertising. And I can get to sir. Henning Hyllested's amazement, so to speak, is still working. Thank you very much for this motion for a resolution that the government should call for negotiations on simplifying the rules on signs. There is a great advantage for small businesses and associations and, incidentally, also for citizens driving on the roads, in finding the small wine producer I mentioned earlier, or the small farm shop or the blueberry jam manufacturer up at Ans, or whatever that is, and we must of course have the opportunity to do so. It is clear that we think it is reasonable that a sign can be erected in the reasonable vicinity of your company. We do not want sign forests, we do not want advertising videos, we do not want large pylons with video screens that change images every minute, because it can be both ugly for the eye and bad for the environment, and it can be a great risk to road safety. So it's in my world, not at all what we're talking about. It is mentioned in the proposal that if a new bypass is made at a city or an area, should you be able to move your advertising signs out there? And I would like to say that this has to be looked at in the debates that should come around this to see what is a reasonable distance. As a starting point, we are looking forward to a meeting of the government, hopefully, although I recognise that it will be difficult to count to 90 on this proposal so that we can start negotiations on it. I wonder whether we will make it by 1 March, though I am a little doubtful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112300	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we can move on to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112314	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Left for raising this relevant issue. Of course, we should not have sign forests along motorways, as we see in the United States and in other countries where it looks really, really ugly and where it marshs nature. That's not what we're in at all. But that is not what the proposal is proposing here either. It is true that the rules are complicated. Some time ago I received a request from someone who told me that they would have set up a pylon, but they couldn't get it set up until all the signs were filled out. So if there was room for eight signs on a pylon, you couldn't set it up when there were only five. It's too bad if that's the case. And then there's this thing about how it looks like they're different around here, and that there's no alignment of it. In fact, I think it's important that we sort this out. So it is also the case that the companies in the province must have the opportunity to show that they are there. People have all sorts of ideas when they go through rural and small provincial towns that nothing happens out here. But if there is better opportunity to look at signs, that there is a bed and breakfast, here is a dog's pension, there is a miniature golf course, and that there is a put and take lake, then it also gives people driving through the cities the impression that there is life in the cities, something is happening here. That is what we have to put forward; that is the balance we have to find. That is why I think it is a good thing that the Left has taken this initiative, which is all about us meeting and talking this through and looking at how we can make the sign law better and simpler. And of course we can support this in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112521	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112541	I would just like to agree with the rapporteurs from the Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party and, as such, with the authors from the Left, because what we are discussing today is not a question of patching up the open country with large sign forests. What we are talking about is whether there are some shortcomings in the current legislation that make it simply so rich that a small company, a small store or something else simply cannot just show people that they are there. So I also think it is very positive. This motion for a resolution is simply that we should sit down and find out whether there are any rigidities, some inappropriateities in the legislation in force, which we must change, and of course we support in the new citizens. I also think that it might be something about the fact that we can, hopefully, come up with a report, so we are pushing this forward a little. But we can certainly support the motion for a resolution, and we would very much like to sit down at a table and look at these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112652	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112703	Thank you. That's a very good suggestion, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. That's all I have to say. We are very much in agreement. But I can't help but comment on that, sir. Henning Hyllested said we always have good conversations. Sir. Henning Hyllested has a point in asking how necessary it is with these signs in a digital age, because we can easily find our way, when we can just take our Google Maps or whatever else we use, and then find our way, but that requires you to know what you are looking for. It's kind of like the paper: We're some people who think it's important to read the newspaper, because then you're also getting some of the stuff you didn't know you wanted. And by the way, without comparison with newspapers, it's kind of like some of these local signs, especially in the open country, that when you get through a city, you don't necessarily know that something exists and that it can be exciting. So, if you do not know that things exist, you cannot look for them, and that is why I think that the proposal from the Left here is good, because it simply increases the amount of information, and I find that difficult to object to, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112829	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112833	Of course I have to comment on that, that is clear. Well, there's a difference between what the purpose is when you get through a city. One can be passing through, and I simply do not believe it, that is, that it is because there is a sign that there is a bakery. Yeah, okay, well, if you're just starving to get a slice of pastry, then maybe it was very nice to know. But I would say that it is far beyond my imagination that one should be able to advertise that there is the small baker. Then there is the second purpose. The local area in which the town in question is located is actually visited. And that is where I believe that you can orient yourself in advance, but otherwise you will have the opportunities digitally today to seek out what you would like to seek through all kinds of devices. So I do not think it quite lasts, I would say to Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224112927	We must not base our policy on faith, I would say. Well, sir. Henning Hyllested can have it in a way when he drives through a city. I know how I feel when I drive through cities in Europe. I think it's amazing that there's a good signage when I get to a town. I think it's nice, and it also opens new experiences for both me and my family, because I'm being made aware that here was something I might not know I wanted. And again, it's not planned for this kind of sign forest for all companies, and I don't know what it is. That's not how I read Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's proposal, and I think we have made that clear. But to provide that information, also in a digital age, which can be useful and good and enriching, I think one can open up a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113022	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113024	But again it is at least Enhedslisten's view that everything should be in moderation, including signage. In fact, we believe that with the existing rules, which were somewhat relaxed in 2018, the balance has been found. I just don't see what you want anymore. It has access to it today, and there are also exemptions, moreover, from existing rules or legislation. But there are also opportunities to actually advertise your attraction or your local area in one way or another. In the view of Enhedslisten, we are on our way down the slippery slope if we have to relax further every three years, because then we will have the sign forest that everyone swears they won't have because we don't want to look like the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113113	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113114	Well, that is a fair point of view, and I therefore agree with the basic view that everything must be in moderation. But sometimes you can turn it around and say that much of the good is great too. For me, it's about information. It's just about the possibility of giving the information that makes it when you drive through places or areas, you're told that there's actually something special here that you might not be aware of. But again I hope that I am not on the Committee on Transport, which is why I cannot help making the report that a report is being made which points a little forward. It is clear that one must then always make one's boundaries. I think it is quite fair to argue in favour of this. I think everyone agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113205	No one else has asked for the floor. That is why it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113223	Thank you for that, President. The backdrop for this proposal is our overall goal of a coherent Denmark in better balance. There is a lot going on in our larger cities, and it is good that it is positive and to the satisfaction of many people. But there is actually quite a lot going on outside the big cities, in our small village communities. And this is an attempt to get a little more people to benefit and benefit from the many activities taking place in our rural areas, whether it is the small organic farm shop, a museum or another sight or activity. The proposal here is based on a series of field visits I have made around, to places where you feel squeezed by the current signage rules, where you think it is simply contrary to common sense that you cannot be allowed to show off to the store or activity. This isn't about kicking off. It's about relaxing a little where it makes sense. I understand that we have been looking at this 3-4 years ago, but there are still a number of things that work very inappropriately and that people cannot understand. The Danish villages are happily inhabited by many local fiery souls. They volunteer their time and effort to create local activities in the form of regional museums, shops, etc. In addition, small self-employed persons are usually included. They have a need to attract visitors, not just those who sit at home and plan it on their computer or GPS, as Mr. Henning Hyllested was talking about, but of course also those who are spontaneously just out on a Sunday trip and spontaneously want to put the way past it because it looks exciting. That's what the signs are all about. It is therefore a pity that our local fiery souls keep running their foreheads against the wall when they need a sensible sign set up. It is often the municipality as a road authority that decides it, or it is the Road Directorate that goes in and plays big brother and says: "You must certainly not do that; you must not put up a sign here. There have even been recent examples of orders to remove sensible signs. That is very incomprehensible. We must, of course, protect our nature and landscape, as the Minister said. It's section 21 of the Nature Conservation Act we have for it. However, I would like to mention a few specific examples. There is an example down from Vordingborg, where close to the motorway there is a business area, but the authorities that administer the current rules have thus gone in and have defined it as an open landscape. That is why, in the end, the wise Social Democratic mayor was reported to the police. He was quite incomprehensible about the interpretation of the sign code. This might indicate that there is something there you need to have looked at, when in an area where there is both a service station and a restaurant I even think it is a McDonald's and some other companies, you can't do a signage. Then something's wrong. Another example is the Blicherregnen Museum in Thorning, which is one of the many, many small, important regional museums that convey our cultural heritage. They've got a sign up on route 13 that goes between Viborg and Vejle. That means they're picking up visitors coming from the west. But they also want a sign up to the east, so they also catch visitors coming from the road between Silkeborg and Viborg, namely at Kjellerup. They cannot do so, and they are extremely incomprehensible about it. In fact, they have an idea that it could significantly increase their visitor numbers. A third example is the Jysk Automobile Museum in Gjern. Now cars are something that is close to my heart, so besides trains. But Gjern Automobile Museum is a magnificent small museum, which actually had two signs up. They had one out at Mollerup, on the road to Silkeborg, and they also had one out to route 26 between Aarhus and Viborg, but God help me if not they were ordered to remove that sign off to route 26. So now you have to imagine a sign-estiv, where there were four signs, but now there's only three and an empty field in this sign-estiv, because they were ordered to remove the sign into the museum. This helps to weaken the museum's visitation rate, and it is far beyond common sense. That is why we are just appealing for a political talk about it. We will, of course, also take this up in the negotiations on the law of plans. It's nothing to let go. That is bad, not at all what we are proposing. It's just trying to pick up these examples, so we'll just get the last of them for the good of our rural areas. I would like to thank you for a relatively friendly reception of the proposal. Even the government and the Red parties have spoken relatively kindly about it. But especially thanks to the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the New Citizens' and Christian Democrats, who will support the proposal. I shall try to see in the committee's work whether we can make a sensible report which may be able to obtain a majority. At least I think we need to be able to meet about this. This isn't about kicking off. It is about giving a little more space to the activities in our rural areas, which is also a very important part of Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113758	Thank you. There are no comments to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113815	The debate is open. Here you go, sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224113834	Thank you for the floor, President. Before the parliamentary elections in 2019, we promised in the Social Democratic Party that we would like to change the course of the previous government, which was not sufficient when it came to protecting our nature and, above all, our groundwater. Instead of maintaining a status quo, we have made several agreements in which we have improved the conditions for our nature, biodiversity and, of course, our health. One of the agreements is the agreement on green cities and a capital of development that we concluded with the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten last September. A few weeks ago, we were discussing a legislative proposal to implement initiatives on environmental zones and zero-emission zones from the agreement, and today we have to deal with the introduction of a spray ban on certain funds in a number of public and private areas. We must take good care of our nature and our natural resources. We must protect our clean drinking water so that future generations can also open up the tap without having to worry about residues of pesticides. With the bill we are discussing here, we are helping to give the Minister for the Environment the opportunity to protect the aquatic environment and groundwater by regulating the use of certain pesticides. It must no longer be possible to use those pesticides, for example. paths, gravel roads, gravel areas, pavements and driveways if the active substance or active substance-degradable products are not readily degradable. This is true, for example. glyphosate. It is necessary to prohibit the use of pesticides which are not easily degradable because they present a risk to our groundwater. At the same time, there are alternatives that are easily degradable and therefore do not pose a risk in relation to drainage to our groundwater. There must be the possibility of making relevant exceptions, for example. concerns safety considerations, the fight against invasive species or any cultural heritage. In the social democracy we take it very seriously that our nature is under pressure, not only on land, but also in our water and marine environments. Our groundwater is an incredibly valuable resource, which we have a great responsibility to look after. We have already taken good initiatives to do this, for example. Denmark has some of the toughest requirements for the approval of pesticides. We have carried out two mass screenings and, in the last financial law, we have set aside 170 million. kr. to a drinking water fund. With today's bill, we are taking another step to take better care of our drinking water and our drinking water. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114107	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114111	Well, it's quite true that this is a step in the right direction, but it's a very small step. I wonder why we are not going a step further, because this is something in which we can prevent the spraying of tile areas and such things in an announcement. It's a bit grotesque that you can have a playground in a place where you can't spray on the tiles, but on a grassland you can so well. Does the rapporteur not see that this bill does not go far enough? I think it is a little grotesque, because we have had a process in which we came to the conclusion that Roundup was banned just before harvests on cereal crops, for example. It is a good thing to be able to drink beer without glyphosate residues, and now that the pesticide agreement has just been concluded, the step is taken so that it is not allowed to dry down on something that is going to be used for fodder crops. And then we have a bill here where you can spray on grassland where there are children. Does the rapporteur not see that we are not going far enough with this little bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114215	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114216	Thank you. Well, there are two things in it, you might say. One thing is that the agreement that was made here I know it's a bit boring and technical, but that's the possibility that you have when you stand on the platform that you're made within the EU rules in this area. In other words, we have gone as far as we possibly can. And it is clear that then there are some restrictions on how far we can go in relation to the area. The second point is that the reason why we have looked at particular tile areas, which the rapporteur also mentions, is precisely because the other layers of soil in the area have been removed. This means that the soil becomes more permeable to glyphose than for example. A lawn does in these cases here. That's why. I see, of course, the possibility of looking in the future at other options for substitutes such as glyfosate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114315	Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114317	Well, I have the feeling that what the rapporteur is proposing in legal terms must be tested in committee. There is also a consultation answer from the Danish Nature Conservation Association, which I think we should have looked at a little more closely so that we can see if the cut is put in the right place. I think it would be a good thing for us to extend this spray ban to more areas, so I would like to know whether the rapporteur is in favour of us trying the legal part of the committee and seeing if we can go a little further than the Minister has proposed in his legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114359	There is no doubt that, when we have the first, second and third readings of the legislative proposal, we are also looking, of course, at the possibilities that exist within the agreement that now exists, and if that includes the possibility that we may make a different cut, then I am sure that we will also look favourably on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114411	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114415	Thank you. There is no doubt at all that we all support this in the Left too that we take good care of our nature, our environment, our groundwater, etc., and it is good that we should call it a very long and thorough work, and we also came to the end of an agreement on a pesticide strategy here a very short time ago. In relation to this proposal, I was kind of sitting there thinking that there might be some good professional reasons, because that's usually what we're looking for when we're working on this area. I think that the rapporteur came a little too easily to justify it in a purely professional way, so could the rapporteur not clarify what exactly is the professional basis for doing the way he is going to do it here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114459	Well, there's a fine professional basis for implementing this legislation. There is no doubt about that. After all, this is done on the basis of a political agreement to use the opportunity that you now have in relation to the EU's work and the EU's track.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114514	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114516	I think that the rapporteur was almost even easier to do about it than in his rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur himself spoke of other substances and so on. This is where you go in and want to ban, for example. a particular substance. My question is: what is the precise justification for banning the substance that is then to be banned here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114543	The precise reason for this would be to look, for example, at whether a substance is easily degradable or not easily degradable. In this case, it's a question of whether it has a degradation time of more than 10 days or less than 10 days. In the case of glyphosate, it has a degradation time of over 10 days, which means that it is not easily degradable. This is among other things. the professional reasons for doing so. I hope, of course, that the rapporteur on the Left has also been aware of this in the legislative proposal that is now before us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114614	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114619	Thank you. Now the Social Democrat rapporteur himself mentions the European Union, and it is with these pesticides that the authorisation to use them at all is something that has been given to the European Union. The general authorisation to use glyfosate expires in 2022 and we therefore need to negotiate whether to extend the authorisation. I just want to know whether the Social Democrats are ready to stand on the team that says: No, we should not extend the authorisation of the use of glyphosat in Europe; we should stop using it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114651	Thank you for the question from the SF. There is no doubt that it is a little different. It is a relevant track, it is not at all that, but it is another track in relation to the bill here, and it is, after all, an EU work in which the government participates down there. Of course, the Social Democratic Party is also interested in trying to reduce the threats that could be to our groundwater and our drinking water, so...
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114716	Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114717	Right after what happened...... all that was missing is: so, of course, I agree with the SF's rapporteur, and we shouldn't extend this permission. I hope that this is where the social democracy ends, because glyphosat has some pretty big consequences, and I do not see why we should keep open the possibility of joining with the black countries of the European Union when we can now ally ourselves with the greens and say that the use of this spray poison must be past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114743	That is why I agree with the rapporteur of the SF that we must, of course, take care of our groundwater and that we should not ally ourselves with them, such as the one we are discussing today. would like to extend the use of pesticides, which are a threat to our groundwater, not even within the EU. It is clear that it has been social democratic policy for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114803	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114808	Thank you so much. In the same context as what the rapporteur of the Left said, I would just like to hear from the Social Democrat rapporteur about the answers that actually come from those who know something about this which actually has it out there, among other things. says it's Agriculture & Food that says it's not possible to assess the sustainability of plant protection products by assessing only from degradability, because there are many factors in it. So what is the position of the Socialist rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114846	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114848	Thank you. And thank you for the question. It is, of course, important to say that we are leaning on one of the strongest professional skills there is. That's one of them. EFSA, the EU system, which points precisely to the fact that we are looking at degradability. Now I do not know exactly what Agriculture & Food's interpretation of it is, but of course I also lean on the Danish authorities, which I have great confidence in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114910	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224114912	It can be said that the vast majority of specialist literature and health authorities worldwide consider that glyphate does not pose a health risk, so here you basically look very, very closely at this substance. But I would also like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur about something at the same time. For example, when they do so, they do so. in the hearing from Danish Plant Gardeners writes that funds such as Pelargonic acid and acetic acid are up to 300 times more straining on health and the environment than glyphate, and then you still drive away with this ban, what is the rapporteur's position on this? I guess this is basically about having a gut feeling about something, instead of basing it on common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115000	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115002	No, it is precisely not about having a gut feeling; it is precisely the professional position that is important in this case, as my colleague, the rapporteur from the Left, also mentioned. So, it is precisely the Danish authorities who assess in this case, in relation to the consultation answer you mention here, that if you use Pelargonic acid correctly, use it in the right doses and use it in the right places with the possibilities and the technology you now have, it will not have the harmful effect that the consultation note in question expresses.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115034	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115039	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Is it not true that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency itself has assessed risks and found glyphosat safely?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115050	There is no doubt that just exactly glyphosat is a source of incredibly great discussion, not only in Denmark, but also in the EU area. There we have to recognise that, especially in the rest of Europe, there has been a lengthy discussion about the usefulness of glyphosat. My clear impression is that it is a substance that we simply need to minimise as much as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115116	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115133	Thank you. There should of course be no doubt whatsoever that it is important for us in the Left too to take good care of our aquatic environment, nature, groundwater, etc., and we also think that we have delivered the goods in connection with the fact that we recently reached a broad agreement here in the Danish Parliament on a pesticide strategy, which I think is a good thing there was a broad circle of parties following up on. Therefore, it was perhaps a tiny bit surprising that this comes so soon afterwards, but of course the government and the support parties have their legitimate basis on which to do so. That's why it's okay for us to turn things around for a second round here. One of the things that I myself raised in my question before was exactly about the professional justification for this, and I think we should keep that even more firm in getting the drill out. We may not be able to achieve it completely at first reading here, but then there will also be the legislative procedure in committee afterwards, and we will certainly have to ask a number of questions there. I am also aware of the rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, who has just been on the floor. A very good question was asked: if it is not true that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, in other words the government's own apparatus, says that there is no problem with glyphosate. Now, for good reason, I cannot carry all the papers up here on the platform, but that was also the opinion I had before I came up here, namely that the government's own device says that there is no problem with glyphosate. That is why it is surprising that we should then present it precisely in a situation in which we always attach great importance in this area to the fact that it is precisely the professionalism that has to advise and guide us and guide us to the decisions. So I can already call on the Minister to include it in his speech up here at some point and get an address on how this is really connected. There seems to be a bill now which is not related to what the government's own device says about recommendations. That's gotta be so amazing. So we're gonna have to drill it out. So I look forward to the Minister's explanation of why the government is putting forward a bill which is not based on the recommendations of the government's own apparatus. That is why there is already a great deal of uncertainty as to what the basis for this draft law is, and so I have to say on behalf of the Left that then we have no chance of supporting it at this time, since it is that we can already see the uncertainties that lie now, but it may well be that we can become wiser here in the debate. But on the basis of the present and the enormous uncertainty surrounding the professional basis now that the government is not following the recommendations of its own apparatus, we cannot, of course, support it, because then you have no idea what it is you are giving support for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115441	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Kasper Roug
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115442	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which, of course, raises many relevant questions. The first question I would like to ask the rapporteur is that just because the Danish Environmental Protection Agency points out that in certain quantities glyphate is not dangerous, the rapporteur must also admit that if there is too much glyphate in the underground, in our drinking water, this is a problem. And what is the whole hops in this is precisely the fact that if you store spray poisons in our drinking water, there is a problem, and the rapporteur must acknowledge that. What is the Left's position on the accumulation of spray toxins in our groundwater?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115534	Well, then, as far as we can at all, we relate to all the information that comes in purely professionally. Because there has been a widespread approach to basing oneself on professionalism here. But I can also hear from the author's rhetoric and approach to it now that you almost have to go further and further out into deep water to try to find some justification for getting asked about this. And in the question that then lies in it one did not mention why the government and the Social Democrats are not basing themselves on what the government's own apparatus here says. Well, the Environmental Protection Agency usually listens very carefully, but I can hear that you don't do that in the Social Democracy and the government in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115616	Here you go, sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115617	Thank you. It is a rather violent claim to say that the Social Democratic Party does not listen to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. I could then make a comment, for example. We are in favour of having clean drinking water, and that is why we are doing something to protect drinking water, too, and I am sorry to hear that the Left is obviously not doing anything to protect drinking water. Well, what does the Left really want? What's the Left's plan in this? Is that just saying, stop, we'd rather pause it? Or is it: We want to wait a little more; it may be 3, 4, 5 years before we do anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115656	Well, we're all in favour of clean drinking water. Come on, no one is in favour of the opposite. Then stop that wind blowing. I can hear that the questioner has to go further and further to try to find something to build something that might look like a question. However, I can only note that the questioner clearly cannot give just the hint of an answer as to why it is that the Social Democracy and the Government are not based on their own Environmental Protection Agency's foundations. Well, that's gotta be a wonder, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115725	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115727	I am well aware that a government may have some special advisers close to it, as such being part of the government's apparatus. But now the rapporteur of the Left has spoken that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is ready for the government. It may well be that there has been a practice under previous agricultural ministers Eva Kjer Hansen or Esben Lunde Larsen or Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, and that there has been a different access to it as rapporteur for agriculture there and that some of the system worked in a different way. But does the rapporteur think that various governments should be part of the government's apparatus? I think it is deeply reprehensible if there is what is the approach to us having different agencies, who would like to come up with a professionally based decision-making basis and have to administer notices, etc. Does the rapporteur really believe that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is to be regarded as the government's apparatus?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115833	Governments, of course, are all our devices, you might say. But it is clear that when a government sits and prepares something, I assume that at least a little attention is paid to those who sit quite close to the government and are, like, what to say, part of the device. That is what was in my question. But it is clear that they are of course available to all of us, and we use the systems we have to ask questions in. I will, of course, do the same for the committee procedure, in other words for questions to the Minister. It may be that the Minister will provide a fantastic answer in a moment, so that it will not be necessary, otherwise I will of course ask questions, and they will come into the various appliances, and I will of course ask what the precise professional basis is for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115911	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115914	I cannot really say yet that the rapporteur has come to the conclusion that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is not part of the government apparatus. I actually think it's a little strange to listen to. The rapporteur must be allowed to ask all the questions the rapporteur wants, but if the approach is that the regimes we have are just part of the government's apparatus, then I think we are far out in the left. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that this is the wrong language used by the rapporteur in relation to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115948	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224115949	In other words, if the rapporteur or the questioner misunderstands my language, I must apologize for that. But I have just tried in my previous answer to answer that the board of directors is of course somewhere available to all of us. But the government is government, and they're the ones who run the store. But it is a good thing that we are all being asked questions, and I will serve that as in so many other situations. This is done in the direction of command to the Minister, and it will of course be answered. So I'm looking forward to it in this case too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120015	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120027	Thank you. After all, it is an excellent proposal that lies here and something that we have worked for a long time in the Socialist People's Party. Finally, we will have a ban on spraying with glyphobes on a whole range of public and private areas, including roads, gravel roads, paths, sidewalks, driveways and parking areas and terraces. It is absolutely crucial for our environment and biodiversity and groundwater that we put a much tougher line on the use of pesticides in this country. And, of course, we continue the trend: in the last pesticide agreement we also prohibit the use of glyphates for the forced cultivation of crops and that is quite awesome. On the other hand, something that is not quite awesome is that the government continues to be foot-timing when it comes to a general ban on the use of glyphosat. And in recent negotiations on pesticides, I tried to get the government to agree that we should not extend the authorisation for use in the European Union, on which we also had a debate just now, but that would not be settled. We will not say quite clearly whether we want to be in a club with the greens or with the blacks in the European Union when it comes to the farming industry, and I find that embarrassing. So I hope the government changes its mind about that. But the proposal we are dealing with here is very good, and we have fought it home ourselves, so of course we are voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120151	Thank you. There are no comments. We move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120200	Thank you. The Radical Left also supports the proposal, which is, of course, the implementation of an agreement that we have helped to conclude with the government to phase out or partially prohibit the use of glyphized slash Roundup on certain private and public areas. It's a wish we've had for a long time. I know that some people will probably ask: what about agriculture? Isn't it really here that's used mostly glyphosat? Does it even make sense to ban it for private and public areas? I must also admit to my own surprise that we have found that private use and public use can be particularly problematic because, as a consumer, we are not trained to use glyphosat and can therefore use Roundup/glyphosat on surfaces and in doses which pose a real risk not only to surface water and nature and biodiversity, but also to groundwater. That is why we have reason to prohibit the use of glyphate in these areas. This is because there is a particular risk of it leaking down to groundwater. But there is no doubt that in the long term we also want a Denmark without glyphosat. We already proposed two years ago that the government went much more offensively into this agenda, because there is no doubt that if glyphate is banned, i.e. that the temporary extension does not lead to a new extension, then our agriculture in particular is facing huge challenges. That is why it was important for us to send out a signal to agriculture, but also to the chemicals industry, that they should come up with better, more environmentally friendly alternatives and it is urgent. We are sorry that we could not get the government to adopt such an offensive strategy, because that makes the transition to an entirely glyphose-free agriculture and glyphose-free society all the harder. But we believe it's coming. This is a small but also necessary step in that direction. And this is a problem, although you may think it is a minor one, because by far the greater part of the use of glyphosat/Roundup lies in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120434	It's fine, thank you. There's a comment. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120439	Thank you. If I understood correctly in the rapporteur's speech, otherwise the rapporteur must correct it, then it was the quantities, i.e. the quantities of private use on the gardening grounds or on the tiles. But it says on the cans how much you can use. Does the Radical Left not have confidence that the citizens will read what is on the table and then comply with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120507	No, we haven't. In agriculture, we need to be trained to use these funds. This is not required for private people, and we can only see that we have seen very large quantities of glyphate in garden waste sites where garden waste has been dragged to and where it has led to pollution of surface water and also the potential risk of it being able to penetrate to groundwater. It is, of course, one of the things that has been a warning lamp for us, but it has also meant attention to private use. So it is also a risk in itself, even though it is minimal. When we look at the total use of glyphosate, private use is minimal. However, when we see that it is being used at the wrong dose and on surfaces that create an increased risk of groundwater depletion, we believe that there is a basis for action.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120603	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120605	In the old days it may not be quite back in the old days, but at least looked in the rearview mirror, some years back it was probably right, it can never be documented that you sprayed the garden paths etc. a little more like that than was directly needed. In recent years, however, there have been many information campaigns and we can also keep up with consumer organisations and so on. then do a lot to inform gardeners and private landowners that you have to stick to what is on the cans. It is in any case my belief that there is no evidence that there is a lot of focus now, that you as a citizen as a gardener should also stick to the quantities that are on the cans. So is the Radical Left not by using the sins of the past to try to punish something that may have already been solved? Isn't that solved? Is it not the view of the Radical Left that today the private gardeners and private landowners are complying with what they are supposed to do, as it is on the cans?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120710	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120711	I am not aware of studies on the use of spray poisons by private individuals, so whether it has been, or not more or less, it has certainly been reduced. But if you've gotten better at following instructions on the dunk, I haven't seen any studies on it. But for us it was a wakeup call when we found two years ago that there were very large amounts of glyphate in surface water around a garden site in Karise. There was talk of the need to simply separate sewer at these dumps, because there were so many private garden owners who brought garden waste, which was therefore full of glyphosat. It helped us to put a line under the need to take action, including with regard to the private sector. We are not willing to take the risk of polluting our groundwater, because someone thinks it is more convenient to remove weeds with glyphates than by other means.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120807	Thank you for that, and then there are no more comments. Then there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224120819	We have discussed pesticides many times in this Chamber. We had, among other things. A citizen's proposal which, as I recall, proposed banning the sale of toxic substances to private individuals. There was no majority for that. I think that the bill we have here is a bit of an offshoot of it, because at that time the Minister promised that you would look at what you could do. The Enhedslisten has the clear position that we should ban pesticides, and we have made several proposals in the Parliamentary Assembly to ban glyphosate. It could be a long journey you're on. It was not so many years ago that it was not possible to allow glyphate to be used on cereal crops intended for human consumption. Then we didn't have any glyphosat residue in our beer. Then we came up with a pesticide action plan from this year, which goes further and bans set-aside before harvesting cereal crops and other crops intended for animal feed. And then we have a bill today, which could lead to a ban on the use of pesticides on tiles in playgrounds, while if there is a lawn in the same playground, you can continue to spray poisons so that children have something to play with. I think it's a little grotesque. Why not take one more step in the right direction? And how is this to be enforced? Should we have a pesticide police who goes around the villa gardens and see if the villa owners are only spraying on their tile areas and not just taking a few dandelions on the lawn? I think there is a weakness in this, where it would be a much simpler and better cut if we were to come up with a ban on the sale of pesticides to private individuals. If you are going to use pesticides in agriculture, you have to have a spray certificate and handle these toxins in the way the instructions say, whereas if it is a private person who goes down and buys a green canister, then there is something on the label, but there is no guarantee that they are handling it properly. We are in a situation where more than half of our active drinking water wells have pesticide residues. That's 63 percent. the first 8 months of 2021. So taking care of all our water supplies is extremely important, and that is why we think that we should take a longer step than what is in the draft law today. However, we fully recognise that this is a small step in the right direction in order to better protect our drinking water and the aquatic environment. This total ban on the use of pesticides on such urban areas seems to me to be the best thing, and we note that DN has a hearing answer that slightly challenges this bill, in relation to if you could not go further. That is what we would like to see clarified in a committee procedure if we could not take further steps so that it is not just fortified areas on which a ban on pesticides will be imposed. We have taken note of the fact that in the last financial law we have a drinking water fund, and that is something that can become a significant step towards protecting our drinking water. It has to be said that the majority of pesticides are used in agriculture. It is, in fact, fine that we deal with something that is mostly in the cities, and there are also drinking water wells that lie near the city or in the middle of cities. At home in Hjortshøj we have seen two drinking water wells that are situated in the city, and historically it has become the center of the city, by being built and built for. So it is actually relevant that there may be many places in the country where we have drinking water wells, which are very close to where there are villas and parcel houses or there are public areas that have been sprayed for many years. It is essential that we limit spraying on those areas where there is no soil at all and where there is a risk that toxic substances may be dumped more quickly. So the bill is a step in the right direction. We would like to test in committee if we could not take a few more steps and look carefully at DN's hearing response. I think the bill deserves this, and I have also noted that in the parties that are behind the agreement which is the reason for this bill to come, we can submit something by tomorrow to improve the announcement that is being consulted. So we will take advantage of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121319	Thank you. There are no comments, so we go ahead in the series of speeches. Mrs. Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121341	Thank you for the floor. Nature and groundwater suffer from past sins. We have taken clean drinking water for granted and we have sloppyly used toxic pesticides. While we are trying to clean up, we must, of course, at the same time ensure that we do not continue the wastefulness and the mess. Fortunately, political action has been taken on this subject, among others. In this context, it should be pointed out that the Commission's proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous pollutants from diesel engines has not yet been adopted. The focus is so now the government and its support parties will ban non-destructive active substances for weed control before 1 January 2024. The Minister simply proposes to authorise himself to lay down rules restricting or prohibiting the use of plant protection products on fortified or highly permeable areas. This is not enough, because the proposed authorisation also allows the Minister for the Environment to decide at a later stage that the use of plant protection products other than those containing non-degradable active substances should be restricted or prohibited. And damn it, it is also intended that plant protection products containing glyphosate, that is, what most people know as Roundup, will be covered by the proposed ban on use. For many it probably sounds completely ping-pong, set in motion. But stop once, for the Ministry of the Environment considers that the bill itself will not contribute to the environment or have any natural consequences. Hey, there will be no effect of that ban. This will also be strange in the case of glyphosat-containing products, since the Danish EPA itself has assessed the risk and found the product safe. Fortunately, this is the case with pesticides. They shall be approved only after thorough examination of their effects on groundwater, etc. Many authorities have thus examined glyphosate at home as well as at IPA, i.e. the United States Environmental Agency, ECHA, the European Chemicals Agency, FAO and the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation and WHO Pesticides Group. Glyfosate is one of the most studied pesticides in the world. As far as I know, over 2 000 scientific studies have been carried out and there is no evidence to me that glyphate, for example. poses a risk to our groundwater. We can then take the view that safe than sorry, but I do not really think that is true, because the consequence of a ban is that other means such as the one we are using are used. acetic acid, as mentioned in the consultation answers, which, according to several consultation answers, is harmful to health and the environment, and this proposal does not make any sense at all. Conservatives want to protect nature and groundwater, not to make symbolic policy, and this proposal has the character of the latter, and we will not add votes to that. Moreover, I do not think that it will in any way be possible for businesses to be burdened with just over 3 million. kr. Every year as a result of this proposal. Here too, I do not think that the matter is right, and I do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121638	Thank you. There's a comment. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121641	Yes, yes, it is true that it says that the Ministry of the Environment considers that the bill will not in itself contribute to environmental and natural consequences, but there is a longer text, so the announcements that come after we have passed the law have a positive environmental impact, and that is what it says. And that is why, if you want to protect the environment, our groundwater, the aquatic environment and everything, you should vote in favour of this bill, even if you are not part of the contract circle. And if there are bourgeois parties that are green, then you really have the chance here to be a part of it, even if you are not part of the agreement that is the basis for it. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121728	No, the Conservative rapporteur does not see that at all. And I actually think that defining what's green and what's not green is really rude. It's all too easy to say that if you're not in this deal, you're not green. There I just have to say that we are listening a tiny bit to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and also to the experts that I have listed up, and there is nothing to suggest that this agreement should do good for groundwater or make it greener, so it must have the character of symbol policy, which I think Enhedslisten usually stays too good for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121802	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121805	One has the possibility of being a little more green by voting in favour of this bill, which is a small step in the right direction, and one might hope that the committee procedure will then lead to two steps in the right direction. So it is not, in fact, to say that there are no bourgeois parties that have the hint of greenness in them, but it is, in fact, one's actions that one is judged by at least the Enhedslisten's side ■ regardless of whether one is rapporteur for the Conservatives or whether one is prime minister. That's the way it is. The chances are there at the third reading, and I think the Conservatives should accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121840	I always listen, but you don't have to be red to be green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121845	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224121855	In the Danish People's Party we want us to take good care of our groundwater. This is important for our society and for the Danes. And here comes a proposal which aims to ensure a legal basis for the introduction of a ban on spraying with certain means on a number of public and private lands. It may be roads, gravel roads, paths, sidewalks, driveways, etc., as has also been shown in the debate. This is, in fact, good for our groundwater and for our biodiversity. The draft law provides a legal basis for the Minister for the Environment to protect the aquatic environment, including groundwater, by regulating the use of certain plant protection products. The authorisation shall also include the power to lay down rules that previously granted approvals no longer apply and rules on settlement periods. It is then intended that if the active substances of plant protection products or the degradation products of active substances are not easily biodegradable, then they can be banned, and that is actually quite reasonable. This will help reduce the risk of leaching with residues from plant protection products with non-degradable active substances to the aquatic environment, including drainage to groundwater. As has already been said, this is a legislative proposal arising from a political agreement of which the Danish People's Party is not a part, but I should say from our rapporteur in this area that we can therefore vote in favour of this part. However, a number of objections have been raised. I can also understand that from the debate here, so we would like to reserve the right to make improvements or other improvements during the committee procedure, but we have to look at that there. However, I have now been sent to town by our rapporteur, and I must at least say from him that we support this for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224122031	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224122040	Thank you. The State, the County Council Association in Denmark, the National Association of Municipalities and the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg concluded an agreement on voluntary phasing out of the use of plant protection products in public areas. The voluntary scheme has been in operation since 1998. The voluntary agreement was last amended in 2007 with agreement on proposals for the phasing-out of the use of plant protection products in public areas. The aim of the agreement is to work towards phasing out the use of plant protection products in public areas in order to reduce the risk of groundwater pollution and to protect nature and human health. It is the Ministry of the Environment's assessment that the voluntary agreement over the years has contributed significantly to reducing plant protection products consumption on public land. Several municipalities have voluntarily phased out the use of plant protection products, so a voluntary scheme implemented by the municipalities themselves, if the municipalities have wanted and the need for it, is fine. This supports the story of local self-government. Now, together with the rest of the red block, the Minister for the Environment will be empowered by the Chemicals Act to lay down rules on the restriction or prohibition of the use of plant protection products. In addition, the Minister for the Environment will be empowered by the Chemicals Act to allow the Minister for the Environment to lay down rules that previously granted authorisations no longer apply and on settlement periods, including rules on the sale, use and possession of plant protection products on certain areas. And that goes against all logic. After all, the Ministry of the Environment itself says that the voluntary scheme from 1998 and from 2007 is working as intended. The municipalities that want it and need it can themselves restrict the use of plant protection products, and they do so, we can see. In the consultation answers, we can also see that a number of consultation parties are puzzling about this bill, and I can understand that. Agriculture & Food considers it inappropriate to introduce a secondary approval system in which previous approvals are cancelled. Where a risk to the aquatic environment or other conditions is identified, this should be addressed in the authorisation of the products, thereby simply applying the label. The Danish Plant Protection Agency finds it controversial that the government proposes to ban the use of products that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has risked and found safe. It is particularly curious that the Minister for the Environment has identified a need to ban, for example. glyphose on fortified or highly permeable areas. Agriculture & Food is unfamiliar with this and we are not aware of this either in the new Civil Service evidence that glyphosate poses a risk to groundwater, even in urban areas. On the contrary, there is an explanation from the Danish Nature Agency from 2013, • Deflow from roof surfaces and fortified land • where glyphosate is not considered to pose any pollution risk for groundwater. In New Citizens we are always concerned about whether there is any reason to worry before we actually get worried. This is clearly not the case for the Minister for the Environment or the Red Block. For facts, science and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency states that there is no environmental or natural risk associated with the use of authorised glyphose agents if used in accordance with the requirements. And the conclusion is based on solid data collected over many years, for glyphosate is well studied. And by far, the vast majority of specialist literature and health authorities worldwide consider that Roundup and glyphosate do not pose a health risk. Nevertheless, the Reds will completely ban the use of glyphobes on public and private lands without achieving anything other than that some politicians get a good gut feeling of having done something good. But politics must be based on facts and reason. Therefore, it must also be possible to use glyphate funds in the future on public land, if the municipalities so wish, and on private land. A ban would simply be contrary to scientific facts and knowledge and, moreover, contrary to common sense. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224122517	Thank you. There are no comments. Mette Thiesen, come on. I don't think anyone else should be allowed to speak. No, there isn't. Then it's the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224122535	Thank you. I have to say that I have really been looking forward to today, and that is precisely because what we have here is a good step forward, which, moreover, is based on both facts and common sense and therefore in every possible way is very good to put forward in this Chamber. We pave the way for a good contribution to green conversion, but most importantly an extra protection for our aquatic environment and our groundwater. So it's a good day. As has already been said in this debate, the draft law is a follow-up to the political agreement made by the government last September with the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. It is also following up and I really want to say that here today, at the request of a large number of citizens who made a citizens' proposal back in 2020, where they also wanted us to take steps in this area. So I would also like to thank them for their great commitment to this matter. I have also met with several of the promoters in a couple of rounds. As I have said, the bill authorizes the introduction of a ban on the use of certain pesticides to combat weeds on a wide range of lands. This applies to the so-called fortified and highly permeable areas. For example, to translate it, it is roads, paths, driveways, terraces, parking spaces, and where asphalt, gravel and tiles are also sprayed. In practice, the powers of the bill will be translated into a spray ban by amending the control regulation, which is therefore expected to enter into force at the same time as the legislative proposal. In line with the rules laid down in the Pesticides Regulation, an authorisation is also introduced to set deadlines for the disposal of these pesticides which are subject to the ban. The ban will therefore put an end to the use of certain pesticides on these areas, where there is a particular risk that the use of pesticides may lead to the introduction of pesticides into our aquatic environment and the introduction of water into our groundwater. Then there has been some discussion during the debate so that this could be done, among other things. Go to the Left's rapporteur and help to reassure Mr. Erling Bonnesen, because on fortified and highly permeable areas there is no soil layer to convert and break down the pesticides and thus reduce the risk of leaching. And that is the risk of leaching that we are now tackling. The draft law will have implications for many private citizens, for business companies and for public authorities and, above all, for municipalities. So to the Conservative rapporteur, who had little difficulty reading the good environmental and natural consequences of this bill, so I would like to read from page 10. I think it can serve to clarify: the Ministry of the Environment considers, however, that the proposed ban on sales, use and possession on the basis of the proposed authorisation provisions, which are expected to be laid down by notices, will help to maintain a high level of protection for the aquatic environment, including groundwater. The proposed prohibition on sales, use and possession is assumed to result in a reduction in the overall environmental impact of plant protection products. The proposed ban on the sale, use and possession of plant protection products is expected to have a positive environmental effect in relation to minimising the risk of release of plant protection products into the aquatic environment, including groundwater. I think that is a very good thing in relation to what the Conservative rapporteur has said. Then, in the future, if a single dandelion or two more goes into the street picture, it will probably go as I see it. Of course, we should not allow our roads to grow and destroy the infrastructure, but in recent years there has been a good approach and development towards tolerating more green and more wild out there in our municipalities and perhaps even to appreciate it. So with the spray ban here, we're putting turbo on that development. Then I would like to sign up to all the many municipalities that are well under way and that also allow discounts and roundabouts to get wilder. Praise to all of them and to all business and private companies who have voluntarily stopped using these pesticides. However, what we are doing now is to ensure that all those who have not voluntarily entered the greener course will now come to that when the spray ban is introduced. With a spray ban, it will continue to be possible to use readily degradable pesticides to combat weeds on fortified and highly permeable areas, for example. Pelargonic acid and acetic acid. In fact, we are banning the use of non-easily degradable means which, if used on fortified and highly permeable land, could therefore risk ending up in the aquatic environment. In addition, there are many other methods for combating weeds. I think that all of us who have driveways or tiles know that other good methods can also be used and also knuckle fat. I guess we're all familiar with that. As the draft law shows, we intend to introduce a few exceptions to the ban. This applies to absolutely necessary exceptions in relation to safety. Among other things, it could. be weed control along railways and at aerodromes and exemptions for the safeguarding of cultural heritage and for the control of invasive species. A little has also been asked about the scope of the proposal, and I would just like to repeat what the Socialist rapporteur also explained so well, namely that with the framework laid down in the EU rules, we have gone as far as possible, with the modification that we will have the exceptions mentioned in the ban. And, as I also had the opportunity to mention to Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we also mention in the draft law the ban on the use of pesticides in recreational pastures, which was also one of the questions asked, in other words how it is now, and that is the possibility of being able to protect particularly vulnerable groups here, and that is also what we are proposing, with the legal basis that is already in place, to get into the notice at the same time as the ban here. That's what I'm thinking. We can help solve that. Some have then also asked how we can ensure that this will not lead to illegal purchases and illegal imports of pesticides across the border. I think that is part of the consultation material. I have to say, then, that we are setting the rules in the way that we think is right, and I think this is a very good step in the right direction. At the same time, we are also giving time for conversion. In short, the proposal will be to tighten the safety net in relation to our groundwater. We do not need more pesticides than we need, and I am very pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, too, supports this sensible proposal as a starting point, and I look forward to further consideration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123308	Thank you. There are a few comments. It is first Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123313	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I would really like to hear, since the Minister has the bill on the table anyway and reads from it, whether the Minister will confirm that the bill states that at the same time the Ministry of the Environment considers that the bill will not in itself contribute to either environmental or natural consequences. And I want to know if the Minister will confirm that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency itself has assessed it and found the product safely, i.e. the glyphosate part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123338	The reason I read out of the bill was to state quite clearly what exactly it is. The difference there and the reason why there was this confusion, even in relation to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, I am thinking of the fact that it is not the draft law itself that leads to that ban, because it must be done by means of a change of order. That, then, is the ban that comes there, and that is what I was talking about. Then we are asked about the safety assessment in relation to glyphosat, and this does not change the general system of approval, but as has also been established here from the platform earlier in the debate, what we are talking about is areas where there is a particular risk, and that is because the top layer of land has been dug away on these areas where there are tiles and in fact there is a surface where there are roads, paths etc. That is, of course, what makes there a particular risk with regard to the funds that are non-lettable. I had hoped that Conservatives would support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123432	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123433	Thank you. But perhaps I am a little confused, Minister, because it could be that I was hoping that, having the committee procedure, the Minister actually found out that those powers did not make sense. Now that the Minister thinks this is very green, one might ask: why is it that the minister and the government do not impose a total ban on glyphosat? It's not to give good ideas, but what's the point of having this bill and then not giving full screw?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123503	As you know, the best defence is an attack, and I cannot help wondering why, instead of discussing and dealing with the proposal which is here and which is a good step, in which we are stretching a safety net in relation to our groundwater, we are beginning to talk about the general approval of glyphosat. After all, we will be discussing this because the European Union is currently looking at glyphosat professionally, and it is clear that it is following the normal procedure. So when we have that basis from the European Union, we will also be discussing it here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123533	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123536	Thank you. I would still like to emphasise that we are all interested in taking good care of our surroundings and our groundwater and drinking water. There is no doubt whatsoever about this, even for us in the Left. And then I had hoped for such a slightly fuller statement and a slightly fuller answer from the Minister in relation to it around the Danish Environmental Protection Agency. We will have the opportunity to do so in committee, and there is not so much time in this question round, so I would just like to deal with the soil layer that the Minister says is missing. Could the Minister elaborate on whether it is something that is recommended to the Minister, e.g. by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123615	I am actually wondering why the Left keeps repeating this, that it is not full enough. In other words, there is a whole legislative proposal where you can read what the professional justification really is, and it has also been repeated from up here from the platform, that what is the concern and the reason why there is a particular risk, and it says, and it is a professional assessment, is that this layer of land is gone, and that means something in relation to the degradation time there is. There we just say quite clearly on the part of the government that we want to stretch out this safety net in relation to our groundwater. We are already concerned about the pressure on our groundwater and we want to ensure clean water for future generations. And it is clear that if, as the rapporteur of the Left says, we all agree that that is what we must do, it is only a pity if we do not want to use the tools to ensure that if we have areas where there is a particular risk, we put in there. Shouldn't we? We in the government think so, and I think the Left should also support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123711	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123712	But my errand right now is simply chasing the professionalism of it and the professional basis, so that we have a better basis for deciding on it than what it has been so far. That's why I'm asking about it. I also noticed that the minister did not get the answer. It was perhaps an oversight that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency directly recommends it in this way, and as it is screwed up, qua the debate we had a little earlier, that it was apparently the case that the government had not based its bill on the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123743	I think it is a rather strange discussion about the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, which is a technical board in Denmark, which does an excellent job and which, moreover, makes independent professional assessments. What is the professional assessment here is that there is a particular risk. So there is that I think that is a very clear professional assessment, and that is why I hope that the Left will end up voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123816	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123820	This is actually a little motivated by what my colleague from the Conservative People's Party said. In general, we in the new citizens are certainly not in favour of introducing legislation which is indifferent or which, at worst, is harmful. That's a classy example of it. Now we have talked a lot about this glyphosate thing, and I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: what is the damage to glyphosate for humans and animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123850	The rapporteur says that this legislation is either indifferent or even harmful. It is simply a pity that we continue to stand on a point of view which is contrary to what the draft law says, namely that there is a particular risk. So if New Citizens are also concerned about putting this safety net under the ground water of all of us and ensuring that there is also clean drinking water for future generations, they will have to use some of the tools where we know that there is a particular risk. That's exactly what we're doing with this proposal. So I do not think it is a good idea for us to get residues of pesticides into groundwater, in other words in the drinking water that we are all drinking today, in other words without chemical treatment. Are you supposed to understand New Citizens that it's actually just fine to get it? At least there's a fundamentally different place for the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123942	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224123943	Thank you. After all, the Minister is not answering the question at all. I could also understand from the Socialist rapporteur in the past that the professional basis is a political agreement. I would just like to ask the Minister: is glyphosat dangerous to humans and animals yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124003	That is because New Citizens insist on discussing something other than what we are discussing here today. We are discussing whether we want to protect our groundwater in Denmark. There are particular risk areas where the top layer of soil has been removed. That is why we say that we do not want to be able to spray these non-degradable substances there. That's exactly what this ban is about. Will we then discuss the actual approval of glyphosat and all the huge work that the European Union has started with a re-evaluation of just glyphosat? Yes, we do. But in relation to this, it's about protecting all of our groundwater.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124038	Thank you. Then there are no more comments and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124053	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124117	Thank you for the floor. The legislative proposal that we now have to deal with is basically about continuing to ensure a responsible economic policy in Denmark, and at the same time it also translates parts of the Finance Act of 2022. The Danish economy is enormously strong and the government is pursuing a responsible economic policy. We are at a time of strong economic recovery, good economic conditions, a Danish economy in top shape, and that is why it is necessary to tighten up fiscal policy. This is essential in order to ensure the stabilisation of the economy. With the 2022 Finance Act agreement, we therefore agreed to abolish what most Danes know as a craftsman's allowance. The craftsman's allowance takes account of craft industries where demand is very high. On the other hand, we continue to retain the service part of the housing job scheme, and we think this is wise because the service part has a more positive effect on, among other things. There's a lot of jobs in this part of the service. Therefore, this draft law proposes to abolish the right of deduction for craft services for private housing with effect from 1 April 2022. In the Social Democratic Party, we are positive about the policy agreed by a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties with the 2022 Finance Law Agreement, namely a fair and wise economic policy, fair because it prioritises core welfare, and wise because we lighten the foot from the accelerator at a time when it is needed. This bill contributes to that. And that is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal, and so does the Enhedslisten, I should like to say from Mr. Rune Lund. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124318	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124324	I would like to ask whether the Social Democratic Party really thinks that right now is the right time. We have rising electricity prices and inflation. Is this really the right time to give the Danes a tax increase, because I assume that you recognise that this is a tax increase that you give by removing this deduction option?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124347	In other words, the agreement on the 2022 Finance Act contributes to the tightening of fiscal policy by 2022, and among other things. This is because the Danish economy is now extremely strong and is therefore characterised by high economic conditions, and this is done in order to dampen the Danish economy. It is responsible economic policy. When the rapporteur then mentions climate improvements, etc., we still have the possibility, under the auspices of the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, to grant subsidies to homeowners who can receive subsidies for various improvements in housing that save energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124434	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124436	I believe that the rapporteur is reading out the wrong response paper that some political officer has given him. I have not mentioned a word about climate. It was probably an answer to somebody you expected to come up with something about it. I have not mentioned a word about climate, so that is not my answer. However, I note that the Social Democrats believe that in a country with the highest tax burden in the world, this is the right time for the Danes to be able to pay more taxes, because even if they see electricity prices rising, and even if there is inflation and they find it difficult to get things together, we are turning a little more on the tax screw. I think that's sad. In this time, we should just go the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124510	Well, it was because the questioner mentioned rising electricity prices that I then made the reasoning that one can then continue to seek subsidies to obtain energy improvements in one's home. I think that's only a natural thing. The rapporteur may well laugh about that, but it was not a wrong answer; it is a natural reasoning. However, as I have said several times: yes, we believe it is necessary, at a time of boom and full steam on all boilers, that we put a damper on fiscal policy and that we facilitate the foot of the accelerator, yes, that is wise policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124548	Then there is no one else who wishes to speak, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124600	Thank you for the floor. We are now discussing the abolition of the artisan allowance. And it uses a lot of Danes to help afford the transition they need from home. It is true that we are at a time when there is a boom, when prices are rising in the construction industry and when it is difficult to get a craftsman. Therefore, no new tax concessions should be made in the housing sector, but what we are talking about here is not tax relief in the housing sector. Because when you remove a deduction, it's a tax increase. What's the handicraft allowance going to today? It is for energy improvements; it is for transition from natural gas to heat pump; it is for climate measures. And that's what the Danes no longer need to be deducted for doing in their homes. So, what is this time we're in? Yes, in addition to rising building prices, there are, as the Socialist rapporteur himself briefly pointed out, rising energy prices. There are very many Danes who see a doubling of their energy bills at the moment. Energy prices and electricity prices are skyrocketing. Wasn't it right now that you needed to be able to switch your home, get isolated, so you don't have such high energy costs? We know, of course, that the government has only wanted to help a few of those who are affected by rising energy prices. You haven't wanted to help all the Danes. Here, too, we make sure that they cannot have the opportunity to adapt. It will be harder to adapt to being green; it will be harder to adapt to help Denmark meet the 70-percent target. Why? Yes, because taxes are more important than climate and energy. You know, you're red before you're green, you know, it shows this with all the clarity. The money has been spent in the Finance Act; they have climbed away on everything else. We find this extremely problematic. In the Left, we are deeply concerned about this. It's just another tax increase for the Danes in the series of tax increases that makes it more expensive to be a Dane. This is one of the ways in which we have historically been able to use some work to walk away from being black to turning white. It's also a battle that we're going to decrease forward with this. So it is really sad that we are now ending up in a situation where the government and its support parties will make it harder for the Danes to secure energy, but instead will give tax increases to the Danes. The Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124853	Thank you. There are no comments. So we can move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124901	Thank you. I'll be brief. The Socialist People's Party supports this proposal, which we consider to be quite excellent, and it is also the implementation of the financial law that we are part of. This is also a good time to remove this deduction from the business cycle. I think it's kind of funny to talk about calling it tax increases and something like that. It may well be that it becomes a bit of a word clip, but that is to say, you have introduced a deduction which is now being removed again, and I think that makes good sense at this point in time. So we're backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124935	There are a few comments. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124938	Usually SF boasts that you want us to meet the 70-percent target and that the Danes have to adapt to the green energy. Why, then, do many Danes want to remove the possibility of converting their homes into a more green future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224124954	That is because there are many ways to combat climate change, and this is not necessarily the most economically advantageous way to do it. We are fighting in a whole host of different areas, including taxation, to ensure the green transition very timely with the negotiations on a high, uniform CO2 and I think these are some of the places where we really have to take action, and not in relation to these deductions, which, moreover, are not very consistent with the current economic climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125019	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125021	Well, that's honest talk. You do not want to help the Danes switch their homes; it must be the central pools that instead have to push up. There is probably only one political difference, and I fully agree with that. However, the rapporteur does not, after all, recognise that this helped to get some Danes, for example. converting their heat supply into a more energy-efficient heat supply, isolating their homes or getting some new windows that make it more green? In fact, it was in cooperation with the SF that we made it as green as it became during the previous reign. So it's actually a scheme, which is a lot born of SF. So why is it that you suddenly don't want to help the Danes to be able to make this transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125106	Yes, but I can certainly confirm that it has helped a lot of Danes to convert and that it has been used to make investments that are beneficial to the climate. For yes, it is also something that we have focused on in the SF, i.e. that you should make the housing job scheme green. But I think that time has run out of the system; it is not where the money is spent best, and it is relatively expensive to have this high deduction that we have, and it is not very good with the current situation that Denmark is in. So I certainly believe that the green transition is important. It is quite obvious. I just don't think this is the most important tool, and it makes sense to remove this deduction now and use it as funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125142	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125145	The SF rapporteur said that this was a good time, and it is a little strange, as the rapporteur on the Left says, when we are in the middle of a green transition. There was, in fact, a tool here to invest in energy renovation, but I would actually like to tackle something else, because one element that is often forgotten is that there was actually subsidies for fast broadband. So I want to hear: has the time also run from the fact that we need fast broadband? We have just been through a coronapandemic where it has been absolutely crucial that people could work from home, receive home education and a lot of other good things that made it possible to benefit from fast broadband. It's gonna go away with this, too. So in addition to just energy renovations, it is also fast broadband that you give a less incentive to get. Is this the right time to do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125224	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125225	I do not think it will have a major impact on the rapid broadband of the Danes, so I am not really so nervous about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125233	Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125234	So getting a grant to install fast broadband has no effect. You can get a pretty big grant. That's 370 million. kr. The Danes rise in taxes, and it has no effect on people's climate renovations, it is believed. I think it's a little too bad. If you're going to meet a 70-percent target, you're going to have to invest and bet broadly, and people's heating bills are going to go up wild these years. Then it is obvious that such a system is also being maintained so that people can actually reduce their costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125304	It's funny, because I often stand on this platform in debates about green conversion, and it's very rare that the right wing spends its energy bombarding me with statements that I'm going to be greener, but just when it comes to this question, where it comes to the tax level, then the bourgeois block is suddenly at work and asks a lot of questions. I think that is actually very much about the color debate that was just before that very well shows that the bourgeois block may just be a little more blue than it is green, and that is why, when there are some green arguments in such a debate here, you use them as a starting point for taking this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125340	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125342	I'm not going into a color palette debate here. I'm a little more worried about ordinary families out there. A lot of municipalities have decided to separate sewers, and it can be a wise decision for the water and for the derivation, but it is also some massively large bills • 50,000-60,000 DKK. These are some families of children who have not had time to work up a free value in their homes and who can find it hard to find money for these things. This also helped them cope with such a bill, which will be really, really big and hit them really, really hard. Can the SF see that this is a problem and will you do something to remedy the problem that can arise if the families cannot pay the very high bills that suddenly hit them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125433	Generally speaking, we are quite concerned that families with children have a good economy and that children have a good upbringing, so we want to give priority to that in all possible contexts. But I think it's a rather strange approach to have this very special focus, because this scheme has been put in place to boost the economy, and these taxes have been removed so that people could make some investments in their homes. Now the business cycle has changed and the time has come to remove the scheme again, but it seems a little like the bourgeois block just wants you to have this deduction forever, and I think that's a strange approach. I think we should have it at a time when it is meaningful, and when it is not really anymore, it makes good sense to phase it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125514	That is where the rapporteur is a little mistaken. This isn't something that's grown in our garden. Generally speaking, we would rather just lower the tax level, so this deduction is not something that has grown in the New Citizen's Gardens. But the reality is, there are a lot of families for children who are now getting much harder to pay massive bills, which in the years to come the municipalities have just begun to do this. Then I just ask specifically: what does SF have in the bag of measures to help these families of children who may not have 50,000 kroner? to pay for the requirement that now comes in connection with sewer separation? I'm just asking, in concrete terms, if you have anything in your bag to help them. SF says you want to help the children's families, and then I just ask, how are you going to help them when you have removed this deduction that actually helped to pay that bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125600	I'm not particularly worried about the consequences of removing this deduction, and I don't see that it's going to cause any major problems. So I also have no plan for the economy of children's families in connection with sewer separation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125614	Thank you. No one else wishes to speak too briefly on the rapporteur's behalf. Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125633	Thank you, President. It is now no longer possible to deduct the cost of artisan services from taxes. We decided and agreed on this when we made the budget law for 2022, and that has been a radical wish for a long time. As part of a responsible economic policy, one has to take stock of the fact that there is a great deal of work going on in the construction sector, which is quite overheated. In general, we are in an economic situation with a boom. It is also a very expensive tax credit scheme used by people with good incomes who typically support work that would have already been done. The houses most in need are in some areas of the country where people can either not afford energy renovations or where investments in the house cannot pay because the money cannot be brought back home by sale. This is how we can, for example, do it. If you ask the Danish Real Estate Association where it is that there are energy class C+ houses, i.e. energy classes C, D, E, F etc., they are in the belt where houses are hard to translate, where prices do not really move out of the place, and where a general energy renovation of a house would therefore be so costly that you do not start at all regardless of deduction or not. So here the deduction has generally not been applied. We see that these are the houses that would have been set up in advance, where it has been a little whipped cream on the cake. Nor is there any evidence that the scheme curbs undeclared work, as was assumed by the Folketing when it was introduced. So we don't think that argument can be used anymore either. The three-digit million amount that we save on removing this deduction, we have decided in the 2022 Finance Act that we will spend on other much better things in the green area and also in education. That is why, of course, we fully and enthusiastically support this in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125834	Thank you. This is Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125838	Now these aren't just new kitchens. In fact, no deduction can be made to new kitchens in the craftsman's scheme at all. No, you can get deductions to e.g. replacement or repair of remote heating units, installation of heat pumps, including geothermal pumps. You can get subsidies for changing windows to improve energy, to remove wood-burning furnaces, i.e. things that are energy-enhancing. Is it because Radicals don't think it's important that the Danes make these energy improvements, and you think it's the right time for the Danes to stop investing in energy improvements, that they now want to remove this system?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224125922	I have not mentioned a word about kitchens, and I am fully aware of the list that Mrs Louise Schack Elholm is listing, since I have actually just been through a process in which I have used the last remnants of the craft allowance. Of course, Danes must be able to renovate their houses. We still have a large number of subsidy schemes to which the Danes have access. In addition to this, we are also open to the Radical Left to find other ways of getting the last houses, which I also mentioned in my speech, which have not applied the deduction, because annual income is simply not even high enough to make any sense at all. This is a tiny equation deduction for that part of the bill, which is the wage. It's not like you get full and full work covered. It's really just a little lump of whipped cream on the cake, the way I've seen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130014	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130016	But the schemes that exist are schemes such as: the one where you had to apply for subsidies to make energy renovations, where there were 10,000 left in line when you closed the queue. It doesn't give energy renovations this year. It is not even possible to have a craftsman before the deadline for the completion of the work has expired. This is not an effective way to ensure an energy conversion of Danish households. It is okay to say that you have arrangements. That's right; they just can't be used. It's not possible to get a grant in them. So it's okay, they say: yes, yes, we have arrangements. They just can't be used. This was an arrangement that was actually a success. We can hear that. The rapporteur himself has used it. This is something that actually turned to green development. Why is it that you will not help as many Danes as possible with the green transition? Is that not the objective: to have a green transition for as many as possible so that we reach the 70-percent target?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130109	Thank you to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130111	In fact, I would really like to help make the subsidy scheme and the subsidies there more flexible. In fact, I think that I myself was one of the 10,000 that was closed down when it was the first-come, first-served principle that applied. It's a bit heavy access you have to those pools, and it's not necessarily the homeowners who need the most or have the greatest need that comes first. So that arrangement is for me to see, and for us to see in the Radical Left actually screwed up a little bit wrong, but it is a little different from what we are doing here today, when we are putting down a deduction which has had its time and where the money we are getting into it we actually think we can streamline and spend better in the green transition than for a deduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130149	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And I'm just looking around the hall in relation to the Conservative People's Party... there are no rapporteurs from there. Then I can see that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is present, and that is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130212	Thank you. Here we have a bill which deals with another increase in taxes. This time it's for 370 million. kr. The reason, according to the draft law, is that financial policy is now being tightened up. In other words, there is an understanding that things are going well in Denmark, and therefore the tax must rise in order to slow down the economy. On the other hand, what happens when things go bad? Then the solution is also, from a red government, that then the tax should also rise, but then it is because there is a lack of money for welfare. So whether things are going well or badly, the solution is to set up the treasure. That is actually a bit of a pity, because why do we not come to the conclusion that the tax might have to be reduced so that the economy can move forward? Or couldn't you just agree that the tax should be kept quiet? The solution is always higher taxes. So why has this proposal not said that it may well be that the construction industry is doing a very good job, but then we are spending the same money on lowering the electricity tax? Well, people's heat bills out there are rising explosively. Or say: we have a labour market that lacks labour, and then why not spend the same money to increase the employment allowance or the job allowance? No, it needs to be spent on higher consumption, and that is really a shame. It may make sense in such contexts that you have to slow down, but then do some of the other thing instead. That's what you've chosen not to do. In the Danish People's Party, we think it is a bad idea to abolish the housing job scheme. It has been a super popular scheme. Of course, that is not an argument in itself, I agree, but the main argument is, of course, that it has helped to encourage a number of energy renovations of people's houses, and it has been a good part of the green transition, and especially now, with the rising energy prices for heating a house, I think it makes very little sense to choose to remove such a scheme. It is also a system that helps to reduce undeclared work, which is also an important matter for us in the Committee on Taxation. However, I would also like to mention something which is not an important part of the debate here, but which I believe is important for many Danes, especially in rural areas, namely that they have actually been able to obtain deductions for the installation of fast broadband. I think it's pretty hard to get out of here now we've just been through a lot with corona how important broadband has been, when you could work from home, that you could have home education. We can try to look at all the companies that actually came roughly through the corona crisis because their employees could keep some productivity because they could maintain their work while they were sitting at home. It is not because of a housing job scheme alone, but it is something that helps to ensure that in our rural areas too we can have a broadband connection that you can actually use and can work on or go to school with. So there are a lot of things that have actually been good effects of this scheme, and I think it is a pity that it is being abolished. By the way, I have one final criticism, and that is that it will enter into force on 1 April 2022. It's just gonna be a piece of legislation. The end result is that we will not be able to deal with it properly. According to this, there's a deadline for questions on Saturday, I think. We have one week to deal with the entire bill before you say how to vote. But also with having a tax measure introduced on 1 April. Then you can hurry to hoard a lot of artisan services and then the scheme is then dropped. So, what do you expect to happen when you make such a scheme here, which lasts a few months for a year, and then you abolish it? It seems very strange. So in the Danish People's Party, we can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130523	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130531	Thank you. This deduction isn't one that's grown in our garden. In fact, we believe that it is a little unsuited to have too many deductions which move a little one and a little the other way. But now it is there, and it has been there for some time, and if you remove it without introducing other tax cuts instead, then it is a tax increase. And this isn't the right time. It's practically never before to raise the tax. It's not at all now. We already have the world's highest tax burden in Denmark. There are families out there who, compared to their houses, find that the heating bills and electricity bills are flying up. We are seeing a rather high rate of inflation now, which affects consumer goods, food and everyday goods for the citizens out there. At least if you look at one part of the Assembly Hall, we will throw a tax increase on top of the hat. This is not the right time to do this. We don't mind removing these different deductions, but then you have to have a marked reduction in the tax. That's what we say in New Citizens. We say: The first DKK 90,000 you make a year is tax-free, and then you pay 37 percent compared to the rest. in tax without any labour market contribution, i.e. a massive simplification. Then we will remove the electricity tax so that it will be cheaper for the citizens out there and we will remove the registration tax on cars, which would make the daily lives of the citizens out there simplistic in this situation where they are suffering from the world's highest tax burden. So we cannot in any way support the proposal. We rarely do that when it comes to tax increases. In relation to the social situation, this is not the right time to place more burdens on citizens out there in the form of tax increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130729	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224130739	Thank you. Now, for a number of years now, like many other Danish taxpayers and homeowners, I have been annoyed that I should go online and again find out what it is like to get that craftsman allowance. It annoys me, because why can't you just get a lower tax in general? Why do you have to go in and apply to be allowed to pay less, i.e. be allowed to pay just as little tax as anyone else who does the same silly work of going online for once to find out what it is like to get that craftsman allowance? That is why we support the abolition of the artisan allowance. But we do not support the 600 million. kr., which the Danes then have to pay more in tax, because there is no craftsman allowance, just to be used to increase public spending in Denmark, which is already close to being record high compared to the rest of the world; either in Denmark we have the world's highest public expenditure, or we have the world's second highest public expenditure. And there is no need for them to be even higher. What might be needed in Denmark was that people who go to work every day received a greater reward for it. If the government had proposed that the artisan allowance should be abolished and that the immediate proceeds of 600 million. kr. should be used for example. to reduce the top tax by 1 percentage point from 15-14 per cent, then we would have voted in favour of the bill. Or if the government had suggested that the 600 million. kr. We had also voted in favour of the proposal for a directive to increase the employment allowance for all those who are in work. Because we're not fans of the craftsman's allowance. We find it rather strange that, in the case of a particular type of consumption, a deduction is made which is not granted in connection with other forms of consumption. I do understand why craft companies would like to see the costs of craftsmen deducted as a citizen. Because this means that there is a greater incentive to spend your money on craftsmen rather than spending your money on a restaurant, on some new clothes or on a holiday trip. So it's easy to understand why craft companies really want this deduction. But everyone else should just want people to spend their money wherever they want to spend it, and not in a particular place, because politicians there have decided that there should be a deduction. However, we shall end up having to abstain from this bill because, although we are in favour of spending the money more sensibly than on a craftsman's allowance, we do not think it is more sensible to spend the money on higher public expenditure. So it will be one of the rare times when we have to press the yellow button in this Chamber. We very rarely do that, but we have to do it this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131037	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131050	As far as we are concerned, it becomes one of the many times that we press the red button. I am very much in line with the other bourgeois rapporteurs here, and I can easily see the arguments for removing the craftsman's allowance. But the problem is that you just let the money go into the box, and that brings together a rise in the tax burden in Denmark, and we do not think that is necessary. We do not believe that the public budget should be bigger than it is today, and therefore we cannot support the Danes with this bill getting less money and the state getting more money. It is incorporated in a large number of tax increases by the Socialist Government, and we are opposed to that. So it will be a clear no on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131136	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. So I do not see any more rapporteurs wishing to speak at first reading here, and I can give the floor to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131149	Thank you. As you know, the draft law we are discussing today translates into that part of the agreement on the 2022 Finance Act that abolishes the deduction for artisan services under the housing job scheme with effect from 1 April. With the agreement on the 2022 Finance Act, we give priority to core welfare and, at the same time, contribute to the tightening of fiscal policy in 2022, among other things. In other words, by abolishing the artisan allowance. Fortunately, the Danish economy is extremely strong and has recently been marked by a marked boom. Therefore, when the government, together with a majority of the parliamentary parties in the framework of the 2022 Finance Act, has agreed to abolish the craftsman's allowance in the housing job scheme, it must be seen in the light of the economic situation in which we find ourselves, where there is a need for us to show responsibility and tighten fiscal policy. After all, the housing job scheme was introduced back in 2011 precisely as an instrument to stimulate the economy after the financial crisis, and our assessment is that the need for stimuli of the economy is not present today. The abolition of the artisan allowance helps to dampen the construction industry, where there is a very high demand. It is at the heart of the current situation where fiscal policy helps to stabilise the economy, and therefore the government has also concluded a financial law agreement that contributes to a tighter fiscal policy by 2022, and in order to dampen the Danish economy, the revenue is not reflected in 2022. It is responsible economic policy. So with the bill we are debating today, we are, so to speak, making a little easier on the accelerator by abolishing the right to deduct the right to benefit from the craft sector in private homes, while at the same time retaining the service part of the housing job scheme, which makes sense, as the service part produces more positive socio-economic effects than the craft sector, especially on the supply of work. Then there have been some good comments along the way, and perhaps if you look at history and in the textbooks, it is a bit of a reverse world where we are, of course, standing with the Radical Left and the Red parties and a bit of a dampener on something that we know is popular, but we are doing it because it is financially responsible. On the other hand, I can also listen to the fact that there is some resistance on the bourgeois side, perhaps because it is a popular scheme, and perhaps because we are approaching a choice, I do not know. But all other things being equal, it is here with a starting point to pursue a responsible economic policy which is the basis for us to have a strong welfare society and, albeit a little dull, the right thing to do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131443	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment on the Minister and it is from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131448	We are also in a very special situation. Energy prices are rising dramatically, and the Danes can feel it. It's hard to afford the energy, they turn down the radiators to afford to stay away. So the Danes are actually pressured financially, because it is not just in relation to the construction that the prices are rising, it is very much on the warming. That is why the craftsman's part of the housing job scheme was very sensible in terms of energy, because it helped the Danes to equip themselves in relation to it. We can see that there is, of course, no likelihood that energy prices will fall for the time being with what is happening in Ukraine, with the sanctions that will be imposed on Russia. So we're going to look into the high energy prices for a really long time. Does the Minister think that this is the right time to say that the Danes must stop investing in energy renovations in their homes when they look into this future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131545	No, I don't think so. And I also think, with all due respect, that things get mixed up a little bit. That is absolutely right, I think, that most families can feel the rising energy prices. Most people can also feel that when they go down and think and have to pour gasoline on the car etc. etc., if you do not have an electric car or a hybrid car, is more expensive. So there are some movements going on, but it just doesn't change that if we look at the economy, and if we look at the craft sector, we'll see that fortunately there's really good work going on in the economy, and it also means that this scheme that was introduced to stimulate the industry, make sure that people got to work, isn't as relevant now as it was relevant in 2011, and that means that it ends up stimulating some projects and some work that would still be carried out. That is also an argument for abolishing the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131636	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131637	Does this mean that the Minister does not believe that this has any bearing on how many energy projects are being carried out in private homes? Because I would say it does. If it becomes more expensive for the Danes to make energy renovations, some do not make them, and energy prices remain high. The housing job scheme on the craft sector is not a renovation of the home at all, but it is targeted at energy and climate. After all, it is not kitchens or a new bathroom that are part of it, but it is only on the energy part to help us achieve the 70-percent target. So would the Minister say that this has no bearing on how many Danes are refurbishing their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131718-2	What I said was that when the housing job scheme was introduced in 2011, it was done to stimulate the economy after the financial crisis, and the whole housing job scheme as such is to provide a subsidy for the construction sector as a whole. At a time when there is a demand for labour and when the economy is roaring away, it makes sense to say that all right, the right to deduct that is to stimulate an industry, is not as relevant today as it was relevant in 2011. That is why it is perhaps part of the somewhat boring financial law that we have made, which is therefore about tightening up the economy a little, to ensure that we also have a recovery that not only roars away, but which becomes a little more balanced for the benefit of all of us. Because if the economy is not controlled, all Danes and primarily those with low incomes will ultimately pay the price.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131810	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224131825	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. However, in view of the situation in Ukraine, it will be necessary to convene a meeting of the Folketing later during the day, and Members will be notified of the start of that meeting as soon as we have it.
