ParlaMint-DK_20220120100004	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 70 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a progressive property tax). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Agenda item 10, draft parliamentary resolution on transparency and transparency of records in municipal care for the elderly (Resolution No. B 50) is deleted from today's agenda at the request of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100031	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100050	The Committee on the Verification of Credentials has informed that on 18 January 2022 the Danish Parliament received a letter from the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. According to the letter, the list of substitutes received by the Folketing from the Ministry after the election of the Parliament is not fair in relation to the order of the major groups from which substitutes are to be called if there is no substitute in a large group that can or will enter a vacancy. It also follows from the letter that there has been a misidentification of the deputy of Tanja Larsson, who has been elected in the metropolitan area of Zealand. It was thus from the Circle of South Jutland that Tanja Larssons's deputy should have been appointed, and not from the Circle of Funen. The Danish Parliament will receive as soon as possible a rightful list of substitutes from the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Against this background, the Committee has recommended that the second deputy for the Social Democratic Party of South Jutland, Theis Chicken Hommeltoft, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 20 January 2022 on the occasion of Tanja Larsson's leave. It is noted that the 1st deputy in the South Jutland Circle did not wish to enter. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100203	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and FG), against which 0 abstained 0. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 103 votes. Alexander Grandt's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing are hereby terminated. If Mette Gjerskov's leave ends before Tanja Larson's leave, Brian Bressendorf will be entitled to continue as a temporary member during Tanja Larson's continued leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100240	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100254	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 91 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and FG) voted against, 0 abstentions 12 (DF and NB). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100316	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100331	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 99 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF and FG), against 4 (NB and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100352	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100415	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 103 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and FG) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100437	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100453	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority of the Committee (with the exception of the SIU)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100508	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100523	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL, FG, IA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 26 (SF, RV, EL and FG), against 77 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 3 and 9, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the SIU)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4, by a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL, FG, IA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 26 votes (SF, RV, EL and FG), 76 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA). The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL, FG, IA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 27 (SF, RV, EL, FG and 1 (S) (by mistake)) voted against 76 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7, adopted by a majority (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and IA) or on Amendment No 7. 8, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the SIU)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10, by a minority (SF), joined by a minority (DF, RV, EL, FG, IA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 36 (DF, SF, RV, EL and FG), against 67 (S, V, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100814	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? It's there, and it's first, sir. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120100836	Thank you. We have previously regulated the road haulage law, where the best and greatest step towards social dumping in the industry was, of course, that we regulated cabotage. On the other hand, after the EU's road package was converted into Danish, we would have to say that there is progress in it, and that is why we will also end up voting in favour of the overall legislative proposal, but what I think most people associate with it is that the EU should go in and help regulate international driving is not resolved in this bill. That is why the SF has also tabled an amendment, and we have made our special contribution to the report, which is that we, to those who believe that this should prevent future Padborg camps, so that it was over with subdued, underpaid, humiliated drivers from the Philippines, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus, will say that it does not. But it may be so anyway, because now the government has to negotiate with the social partners, and if they reach the point of regulating non-bilateral, international runs, this could be the tool we need. What worries us in the SF is that in this way we leave it to employers to give them virtually a right of veto to resolve this. So I can, of course, on the one hand wish our Minister for Transport every success in the meetings to be held with the social partners, but we are concerned that we are adopting a bill here which addresses many of the right things, but on this point does not provide the solution or, to put it bluntly, postpone it and makes it a hope that employers will agree that we will have international riders covered by the road package, so that it will be regulated so that we avoid future slave camps in the border area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101045	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101048	Thank you. When I read the report here, it seems that SF had not seen anything coming from the Minister for Transport in this area at all. I think it is a fine indication that the Minister is referring to the report here, which says that there has already been a meeting with the social partners, that there is agreement that we should have a legal assessment of this and that later we should also have a political debate on how to find a solution to this. So it is okay to note that, but I think the report shows that the Minister for Transport is in full swing in cooperation with the social partners to ensure that we find solutions to this. Does the rapporteur not agree that the wording contained in the report is very positive?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101132	Yes, but sir. Thomas Jensen, what this is all about here is that we must believe that it also succeeds and that it also ends in the right place. The sensible process here would have been to have had those things in place before we adopt the bill so that we know what the basis is. Now we are adopting a legislative proposal and then we hope that it will go well. Of course, I am aware of what is in the report's contribution. In addition, the Minister for Transport has already drawn attention to these meetings in debates here in the Danish Parliament. It is a rather strange situation, however, that we now believe that we are actually adopting what is supposed to regulate non-bilateral international traffic, and then we are really postponing that part of it with the best hopes that they will go well. What if they don't go well? I think that should have been in place before we adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101211	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101212	Now there is a good tradition in Denmark to involve the social partners in such a complex matter here, where we need more ministries in order to assess the law in it, so let us see now. We get a legal assessment from the various ministries involved in this, and then we get the social partners in the field, and then we can have a good discussion of it in here. And then we have to hope that it will result in more precise regulation, so that we can achieve what Mr. Karsten Hønge is interested in: proper working conditions and proper competition in this area, so that we do not again see cases such as the Padborg case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101247	Yes, yes, but hadn't it been cunning to do it in the second order: that you had those things in place before we deal with the bill? To have that legal assessment, those meetings and those agreements with the social partners before we deal with the bill would then have been a clever way to go instead of discussing the bill now and then hope that things are going well. But this is one of the most important things, not just for the SF, but for the transport industry and for the drivers who are being pressured daily on their salaries and working conditions, because there are cynical employers thinking of giving the least possible and the least possible conditions for the drivers you can take in from third countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101320	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I understand that too, sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101331	Yes, and that is, of course, to indicate that we are actually supporting the amendment • we are voting in favour of the amendment from the SF. We are, of course, doing so because it is the most effective way to get this bill worked out so that it becomes effective enforcement. It is true, as the Socialist rapporteur also says, that there is now a contribution from the Minister for Transport in the report, and we think it is very good that there is. However, the problem with this is, of course, that it does not provide any guarantee that we will have third country driving covered by the remuneration requirement, as it is termed quite technically. There is no guarantee that the social partners will find a good solution here. The problem with this is, of course, that the Danish Employers' Association has been equipped with some sort of right of veto they can actually cross their arms and say: we will not. Then, of course, you can trust that they may not. Yes, I don't know, but it will happen sometime in the spring. And that is exactly what the problem is. From the outset, the bill should have included the remuneration requirement also for third-country services, i.e. in the situations in which a Bulgarian company has Filipinos on a Polish licence to drive a truck between Sweden and Denmark and international transport between Sweden and Denmark and Germany, or whatever it may be. It should have been in from the beginning. That is what the SF's amendments correct and that is why we are voting in favour of it. And it had, as Mr. Karsten Hønge has said, was the right way, the right order to do it in. Of course, we take note of the contribution of the Minister of Transport. It is good that it is there, but there is no guarantee that something sensible will come out of it and that is why we are voting in favour of the SF amendments. Now the bill is expected to be split after the second reading here, and to the part of the bill that will be called L 62 B there is an amendment No. 28 from the Left and a number of other parties which are concerned with maintaining the 11-kilos rule. This is the rule that you should only be allowed to transport goods if your goods weigh more than 11 kg per day. Unit. The bill was aimed at removing that rule because the police have drawn attention to and have given talks that that rule is impossible to control. There are so many opportunities to bypass it, and yet the law and order parties uphold that rule, in other words, despite the police's recommendations to remove it. Of course, we are voting against this amendment, because it is a blow to the attempt being made here to strengthen the fight against social dumping, but the bourgeois parties therefore want to maintain a weakened control of social dumping. The same applies to the amendment, which will then be for the legislative proposal called L 62A after the division, in which company control will not be allowed without a court order. It is also a weakening, despite the fact that we already have it, among other things. when checking driving rest time, etc. Now we can get the situation where the Danish Trade Administration comes in because they will check the driving-rest-time they can do that without a court order. If they then discover, and it is likely that it is also wrong with the requirement of vanity, etc., then they must not take it into account, then they must not use it for anything. It's a crazy situation to put the Department of Commerce in, in our opinion. But this is all aimed at weakening the fight against social dumping in the transport sector as a whole, and with the 11-kilos rule in the area of goods vehicles in particular. We find that sad, so we are voting against it. Secondly, I have explained that we are voting in favour of the SF amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101741	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. No one else has asked for the floor, and that is why we can proceed to the vote. I'm sorry, the Minister would also like to take the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120101752	This is prompted by Mr. Henning Hyllested's latest comment on the amendment bypassing the government on the control part. I think that, for the sake of good order, I should point out here that it is true that it is not entirely clear what consequences it may have in terms of control, which Mr. Henning Hyllested rightly points out, and we have also answered a written question. That is why it is clear that this amendment will be voted through, and the government will of course also consider more carefully whether there may be a need to take other steps. It should be said, for the sake of good order, that the vast majority of the control of the Danish Transport Authority is carried out in good order, calmly and quietly, without any difficulty in having the many law-abiding companies in the transport industry documentation, when it is that the Danish Transport Authority shows up and asks to be allowed to gain insight. But it is clear that there may be other examples. I do not know that there have been examples from the driving-rest-time area, but there may be examples where a company opposes cooperation. In this situation, of course, we must consider carefully whether there can be other steps to be taken to ensure that a company is held responsible in this situation and that the necessary material is made available. There is, of course, a duty of proof, remember that it may be a fine or other, and that is of course to ensure that this rule does not go beyond the many law-abiding companies that actually secure documentation, ensure that they comply with the rules, etc. So just for the record, I would like to say that this is something we will have to assess further. We cannot do that here and now, but of course we must do so in the further work, also because in other areas there are also places where the Danish Trade Administration already controls, but also in the future we are expected to have more tasks • something that we, across the Danish Parliament, agree on, that is to say, to give the Danish Trade Administration these tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120102013	Thank you, Minister. I see no desire for short remarks. So I have to ask, in the interests of safety, is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate has ended and we shall proceed to the vote and we shall have to bring the Minister with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120102027	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by the Committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? Proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods, the law on bus services and the law on the posting of employees, etc. B. Proposal for a law amending the law on the carriage of goods (Canceling the 11-kg rule and raising the weight limit from 2,000 kg to 2,500 kg for the licensing system for national goods traffic in vans).] The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then put to the vote. 2-6, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and UFG), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 18 (SF, EL and FG), against 86 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 22 and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8-12, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 of a minority (V, KF and NB), joined by a minority (DF, RV and LA), which together constitute a majority in the committee, but then we shall see if there is a majority here in the Folketing. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), against 49 (S, SF, EL and FG), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall now consider Amendment No. 18 and 27, tabled and joined by the same minorities as adopted. They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 14-17, 19-21 and 23-26, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. We shall then vote on the draft law referred to in B: Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 28 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), which together constitute a majority of the committee and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 54 (V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), against 49 (S, SF, EL and FG), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 29, to be elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law referred to under A should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I propose that the draft law referred to in B be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. There are no more votes, and that is why I ask those who do not want to take part in the negotiations to leave the Chamber. It has been so long now that I expect calm in the Chamber so that we can get to work on the negotiations. So those who need to discuss and that is also the case here in the front row I ask to go outside and conduct the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120102502	The debate is open. The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120102520	Thank you for that, President. The first of the first readings today concerns a motion for a resolution tabled by the Conservative People's Party, and it is a revised re-submission of a proposal from a previous parliamentary year that was rejected. The proposal reads as follows: "The government is required to make legislative proposals where the number of main training courses in general medicine increases to 400 places per year during the period 2022-2027. At the same time, the number of introductory posts should be increased by 195 per year over the same period. The proposals must be financed through the scope. So it's all about medical coverage. It's about what we have to do to ensure better medical coverage. This is a very relevant discussion, and I would say that in the government we share the ambition of getting better medical coverage, no matter where you live. If you look at our proposal • Closer to II - health, education and local development • from October last year, a number of proposals have been put forward for initiatives to strengthen medical coverage. I will return to them in a moment. But first of all I would like to say a few words about the dimensioning of specialist training. This is, of course, the instrument which the resolution proposes to use here. As is well known, the dimension of training courses in specialist training in general medicine has already increased in several stages in recent years. I would like to acknowledge that the previous government has increased it, and we have increased it further, so some steps have been taken to increase it, both by the previous government and this government, which has then increased it subsequently. Most recently, the government and Danske Regions have agreed to gradually increase the number of main training courses in the region's economy for 2022. recruitment-led specialties and outside the major cities. So this applies not only to general medicine but also to recruitment-led specialities, and it is very, very important to stick to it. For there are several different specialties where you have recruitment challenges, and there are also geographical differences where you can get doctors. In this new dimensioning plan, i.e. the plan that goes from 2022 to 2023, there are cross-specialities combined with 1,067,5 main training courses in 2022 and 1,090 main training courses in 2023. This is an increase in relation to the latest dimensioning plan. At that time, you were 1005.5. That thing with 0.5 might sound a little weird, but that's the way we work. In addition, a number of main training courses in acute medicine of between 29 and 42 should be added. So with this boost in the new dimensioning plan, there has been room for both to incorporate the relatively new specialty in emergency medicine into the overall framework, to maintain the high number of main training courses in general medicine of 350 main training courses annually and to increase the dimensioning in a number of other specialties. This means, among other things, that the dimensioning has increased in the fields of psychiatry, psychiatry for children and youth, neurology and radiology. We have to take that with us. We have to look at the whole field, to look at all the specialities when we have these discussions, and we have also recommended that in this debate today we also look at other specialities. Although the proposal is, of course, about general medicine, we need to include the other specialties in the overall picture. I think it is positive that we have thus been able to increase the dimension of these specialties, where there really is a strong, strong need for specialist doctors. For general medicine specifically, the high number of main training courses of 360 in recent years is continuing this year and next year. At the same time, the lower number of introduction courses in general medicine increases from 455 to 525. This means that it has been dimensioned from 525 to up to 700 introduction courses in general medicine annually this year and next year. So the dimensioning of general medicine has increased in recent years, and this year the number of introductory positions is increasing further. When we talk about dimensioning, it is of course relevant to look at the main scenario in the Danish Health Authority's medical prognosis. You have to look up in it and see what the prognosis looks like: Are we educating enough? This is one of the things we would have liked to have done many years before, perhaps decades before, because it takes a long time to train these specialists. So you have to keep an eye on what the prognosis looks like: Are we educating enough? How are we going to organize ourselves in terms of education, so we're gonna train enough here? In the main scenario of the Danish Health Service's medical prognosis, an expected increase in the number of specialists in general medicine is shown at 51 per cent. for the period of validity of the forecast. This is a long period of time, but on the shorter course it is expected that the number of specialists in general medicine will increase by almost 8%. in the period from 2018 to 2025. That is why I believe that what we should focus our energies on is initiatives that can strengthen medical coverage relatively quickly, and I mention the forecasts, because I think that this is relevant for us to see that what we are doing now and here, on the one hand, must be able to resolve something now and here and, on the other hand, must be able to be sustainable, even in the coming years. And until there are more specialists, the government's position is that there is a need for initiatives, such as: can help strengthen the distribution of doctors. Because we can see that the challenge of medical coverage, that is to say, what are medical coverage-at-risk areas, is very different geographically from one region to another. We need to take responsibility for changing this, and we have two objectives for medical coverage: (1) that all citizens should have access to a permanent doctor close to their place of residence, and (2) that more doctors should be involved in general practice in medical coverage-related areas. That is why, as I mentioned at the outset, we have put forward a number of proposals for better medical coverage, such as: is intended to distribute the doctors better. We have three specific proposals. One is a duty of practice during specialist training in general medicine, the other is to strengthen the distribution of training doctors, and the third is targeted action in areas where there is a medical shortage, and I would like to review each of the initiatives. The first point, i.e. compulsory practice, will mean that the part of the primary education in general medicine which is carried out in general practice will be extended by up to 1⁄2 years and that the hospital part will be shortened accordingly, so that doctors will have to spend more time in general practice during specialist training. This will, of course, give more hands to existing practice clinics, and our estimate is that the proposal will be able to contribute 290 training doctors, who will therefore spend 1⁄2 more years in general practice where they are really needed. The second point concerns the strengthening of the distribution of training doctors, among other things. For medical coverage-related areas. So it is a question of ensuring a much better distribution of doctors, which takes more account of where doctors are needed while they are training for specialists. The third point is to give our regions new opportunities to take targeted action to attract doctors to areas where there is a medical shortage. It is a time-limited period when you look at the forecast that we have this problem here, so during that period, in certain areas with particularly great challenges with medical shortages, we will be able to provide a financial contribution to practitioners, and at the same time we propose to relax the rules for the establishment of regional clinics and to promote so-called licensing clinics, which allow the additional doctor to focus on medical work, while the region can then take care of the administrative work, which is also in general practice. I very much look forward to discussing the proposals with the parties of the Folketing. These are new tools, and several of them require a change in the real basis behind them, so I hope that in a broad community we can reach agreements and agree to provide the necessary framework so that we can hopefully resolve the medical coverage challenges, which I know to be the case, I believe in fact all the parties here in the Folketing and for good reason, because it certainly also concerns the people who live in places which are at risk of medical coverage. So, to pick up, I would say that we in the government fully agree with the diagnosis made by the motion for a resolution. Better medical coverage is needed. We do not believe that further increased dimensioning is the right medicine now, when we are expected to see a significant increase in the number of specialists in general medicine and the dimensioning has already increased in several stages under changing governments, most recently under us, of course. And I would also like to point out that there are considerable costs involved in the proposal for increased dimensioning, so we must of course bear that in mind. Instead, we are proposing these new tools in use: to better distribute doctors and support recruitment to areas that unfortunately experience medical coverage challenges so that more people can get a permanent doctor. We will work towards this with the various proposals that we have put forward. The conclusion is that we could not support the proposal when it was tabled last time in 2020, and for the reasons I have explained here, we will not be able to support the current proposal either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103558	Thank you. There are brief comments, first from Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103602	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech, and on many stretches I think we can talk about some of these things. I noticed that the Minister said that, if you had gone back 10, 15 or 20 years and looked forward, there would probably have been a need for better forecasts and perhaps even more forward-looking political decisions on the basis of those forecasts. And now we are standing here looking 10-15 years into the future, and one of the things we are agreed on is that the close health care system must solve something more for the future, and that also applies to general practice, that is to say to practitioners. I see that, by training more practitioners, freedom of choice is also being strengthened. In other words, today, free choice is virtually non-existent when it comes to practitioners. In this context, would it not be a rather leading question, Minister • be sensible, like having some perspective, that if we look 10-15 years into the future, there will also be doctors to do the job in terms of strengthening the close health care and establishing a genuinely free choice of practitioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103706	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103707	Yes, and there is a reason why the dimensioning plan is valid this year and applies next year, so that is a slightly shorter period than you normally have a dimensioning plan. And that is why it is obvious that, when we, hopefully in a broad majority, have agreed on a health reform which also describes the proximity revolution facing the health service and how many experts and also many, many parties I think all the parties have agreed that we need to strengthen our efforts and focus our efforts, then look at what it may pose of new challenges within the dimensioning plan. We must then see if there are any adjustments to it, and we must see what the Danish Health Authority is going to do. Because it cannot be denied that the decisions we are facing will have an impact on the type of doctor who should be where, and we must then discuss and calculate that. But I think the idea must be that we should first have those negotiations and hopefully a broad agreement and then ask the Danish Health Service to submit proposals for a new dimensioning plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103813	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103814	I really appreciate that answer. Because that merely confirms that it may well end up like this. In other words, if we agree on the diagnosis, we will also have to agree on a solution at some point, and I just find it hard to see that we can sort of avoid strengthening general practice, also in relation to the number of heads and hands when we look in the future. I just need the Minister to confirm that what concerns medical coverage, including the training of more doctors, will also be part of the negotiations on a health agreement, health reform, a little depending on the temperament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103846	I would like to confirm that it is. In other words, a large part of this is about bringing health services closer to the citizens, and this is a general practice, and now we are talking about general practice, and this is a very, very big and important issue for all of us and also for the proposers here, but it is also very, very important that we have a look at all the specialties. Because you can risk such an internal cannibalization, where you make some specialties that then cannibalize in the other places, and so we also need specialists in children's and young psychiatry and elsewhere. So it's important that we have the overall picture. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103922	Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120103924	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for his speech, although I am actually a little disappointed with the content of the Minister's speech. In fact, the Minister says some of the right things, that is to say, why it had not been possible to train some more practitioners or general medical practitioners a long time ago, so that we would not have had this problem here today, but if it is the case that we are voting against this proposal, we will actually have a situation similar to that in the future too. For the initiatives which the Minister has outlined here in relation to a better distribution and something with compulsion and something like that do not solve the problem, either in the short term or in the long term. So I actually lack a real reason why the Minister will not help raise the proportion of practitioners from around 3,300 that we have now, to those 5,000 that the PLO estimates are the ones that will be needed because of demography and therefore an increase in life expectancy. What is the reason why the Minister does not bite here and then say: let us solve it once and for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104028	In other words, there are a large number of reasons here, but it is of course important that we have trained the doctors who are going to now and in the future, and now and here we are lacking doctors in general medicine, which we are talking about here today, but also in a number of other specialities we need doctors, and we need a better distribution of the doctors who have undergone the thesis training. We simply lack them in several places in Denmark. So one thing is to start training more people now and here, and we are doing that here, and you can always discuss how much. We have put on top of that we have based on the forecasts that we have but it is not enough just to do so. We also need to be honest with each other and say that otherwise we risk turning up what can grow and can become an internal cannibalisation, taking from specialties and taking from geographical areas where doctors are needed. And that's what I fear about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104131	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Per Larsen the word again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104133	Thank you. Well, this distribution thing is somewhere a patchy solution, and we know that doctors aren't like that. Once they have been trained as specialists in general medicine, they usually also have an age when they start a family, and they have children and things like that, and then they aren't like that. So the real possibility, if it is the case that all Danes must have a family doctor, as they know, is simply to graduated it up so that we get to the 5,000 doctors. Does the Minister disagree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104207	Yeah, I disagree with that. I am, because if we simply degrade blindly, we risk removing even more of the doctors who are in other specialties where there is also a need. In psychiatry, in children's and young psychiatry, there is a huge need for specialists, and if we fasten up one of the specialist courses in some places in Denmark, we risk emptying other places for specialists geographically and specially.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104241	Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104242	Thank you very much. And thank you for the Minister's reply to the motion for a resolution. Where I see there is a difference, there is where we are talking about a family doctor, and there I think we are very much in agreement with Conservatives, because that is some of what we want. You don't get a family doctor by getting more college doctors out there, because they're not there very long at a time. It is also difficult to do that in Lolland, where I come from, because it is sending educational doctors to clinics that do not exist. You can also see that some of these private clinics now have to close and that even more regional clinics are going up. Again, it's nothing to do with a family doctor. We are therefore talking about two very different things. One thing is about just having some health professionals who take care of citizens. The other thing is about having some family doctors who follow you and who are there, both when you get pregnant and have given birth and who see the little one, also when the little one needs to be vaccinated, and maybe it will also make you feel more comfortable when you need a corona vaccine or whatever it is. Does the Minister see that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104347	Yeah, I can see that. That is why one of our proposals is that where you are threatened with laying down in these years, you can help reward doctors financially and make better financial opportunities for doctors to get there or help lift some of the administrative burdens that a doctor who comes into practice has. That is precisely what attracts them. However, when the second proposal mentioned here by Mrs Liselott Blixt is about getting more training doctors, in other words those who have chosen general medicine as their specialty, out in the course of training, it is because we know that they are helping to relieve the burden. When I go to my doctor's office, I sometimes talk to the doctor, and sometimes I talk to someone who is out in connection with his education and provides for a vaccination, a child's vaccine or whatever it may be, and as a family you are quite safe about that. You have a familiar face, and then some help in the clinic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104451	Mrs. Liselott Blixt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104452	Well, I'm not comfortable getting up to changing doctors if I'm going to have gynecological examinations or have to talk about a mental illness or whatever it may be. It is then in connection with such things that you need trust between two parties. So I would like to hear: how will the Minister ensure that, for example, we do so? On Lolland, do doctors get down there? And how many doctors are there in those places? These are some things that I will also be asking a few written questions about, because we will again see the same thing about training doctors coming where there are doctors.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104522	Yes, they do. And that's why it's kind of a Gordian knot. But we have to use many different elements to reverse the negative spiral. What Mrs Liselott Blixt says is exactly my point. It sounded like we disagreed, but I think we almost agreed. There are elements of our own, our nourishment, our family's health where we really need to see here a face that is known, that knows our history and that we have deep confidence in in the patient-doctor relationship that is associated with our general practitioner. And then there are other things that are much more unproblematic, and there you can then make use of all the other employees who are in the clinic, and we think that cooperation can also be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104600	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We now go to the rapporteur's line and then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120104622	Thank you, sir. President. I am here instead of our rapporteur on the matter, Birgitte Vind, who unfortunately had to lie down not with corona, but still. So I stick roughly to our speech paper, and I look forward very much to the debate. Having said that, I think this debate is very, very important and I am glad that the Conservatives have raised it. I grew up in Vestjylland and live in Aarhus and have experienced the big difference that is alive. I would like to start by telling my colleagues and the Danish Parliament that here almost a month ago I had to change my doctor. I live in central Aarhus. And not only did I have more to choose from, but I could also look at geography, skills and gender as well. This is one of the advantages of living in a place where there is a high level of medical coverage, and it is one of the disadvantages of living in one of the places mentioned by the rapporteur who tabled the proposal. More than 6,000 Danes live in such an area, which is a medical facility. There is no doubt that this is a major problem and that the practitioner plays a key role for our society, both in terms of the security mentioned by the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, for the individual family, for the individual and when it comes to referring to treatment in the other system. Therefore, all Danes must also have an opportunity to have a permanent practitioner; and therefore it is an expression of great geographical inequality when, precisely today, there are parts of the country where you practically do not have your own doctor. As the Conservatives also point out, part of the solution is to train more doctors, which is why, of course, we are also pleased and proud that the government has agreed in its first economic agreement with the regions to increase the number of main training courses in general medicine by a total of 100 places. Fortunately, we are training a great many new doctors in the years to come. According to the Danish Health Authority's forecast, an increasing number of specialists are also expected in general medicine, and it is the case that it is increasing in general. We therefore consider it essential also to look at how we can train more doctors in those areas of the country where there is a shortage of doctors today. Here medical education, e.g. in Køge and Aalborg, can contribute doctors in some of the areas in North Jutland and in Zealand that are currently struggling with medical shortages. But education does not do so alone. In the years to come, we are particularly affected by medical shortages, and we therefore need action on the short track in the areas that are now particularly hard hit. We cannot wait the many years it takes to train a medical practitioner. The government played out in the autumn with a duty of practice, as the Minister also said, where we want to convert part of the training to a specialist in general medicine, so that less time takes place in the hospital and more out in general practice. This gives some 290 training doctors who spend almost half a year more in general practice, giving a hand in the areas that the Minister also mentioned. It is a proposal that has been well received and I hope that we can also find broad and solid support in this Chamber. With regard to the Conservative People's Party's concrete proposals here to legislate that in the coming years there will be 400 main training courses in general medicine, as I have said, it is already in the current forecasts that there will be a large increase in the number of doctors in the coming years. And as the Minister said, we must be aware that we are not emptying other areas. This is a complicated and difficult matter, which I and the Social Democrats are so pleased to discuss, because we need to look at the various approaches that exist. We look forward to the cooperation and that together we can work for broad, equal and fair coverage with practitioners throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105055	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105059	Thank you to Mrs Camilla Fabricius for being a standin here and for giving the Socialist speech, but I have to ask one thing. After all, the Prime Minister said in his New Year's speech that too many Danes do not have the opportunity to have their own general practitioner, and it is nice that we agree that it is important that people have their own practicing doctor, but it sounds a bit hollow when you do not want to bite to fuck here and help make sure that we get to the 5,000 practitioners that the PLO has a prognosis that says we need forward-looking because, for example, there are twice as many 80-year-olds. So you say one thing on national television, and then you mean something quite different when you come down here in the Parliamentary Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105143	Thank you so much for asking me that question. I do not think that this is in any way contradictory. I think that both I myself in this speech, but also that the Minister has been very clear in saying that we have strong ambitions for an equal and fair Denmark, and that what the Prime Minister and our party leader say here is very clear in that it is a challenge. That is why the Minister has also pointed out that there has to be different gripes. So we need to look at education. We need to look at the attraction. We need to look at what these are, in general, measures to be taken. I could, of course, turn it around or at least hope that the rapporteur was then ready to talk about the obligation of practice, that the mandate was actually put behind and supported the Social Democracy and the Government's proposals on duty of practice. So I look forward to discussing something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105236	Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105237	There is certainly not a majority in favour of compulsory practice in the Folketing, so it is kind of dead. The obligation of practice will also increase the length of specialist training by six months for probably all the specialties. This means that we will have to wait even longer for hospitals to get more specialists, which are also lacking in hospitals. So everything else is going to be a really, really bad solution, because they are desperately short of specialists in hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105313	It also shows that there is a difference here between how you put your strength behind it and how you disagree about how you can solve something. So what is going to be the quirky thing here is how we solve something that both sides think is a serious problem. I think it is also essential to look at other parts. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at the outermost West Jutland, you can see that they in Cold Hawaii have succeeded in attracting doctors for a completely different reason, namely that they have made some genius urban development. I think that is also important to look at, and the Social Democrats have done the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105348	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105408	Thank you. As you know, this proposal is a re-submission of B 142, if I do not remember much wrong, from May 2020. At that time I gave a speech about Dr. Hansen from Monopoly and the old-fashioned family doctor. The modern family doctor and thus also the modern medical practitioner and the modern medical practice that our children are going to meet will certainly be very different from the general practitioner we meet today, and certainly very different from the doctor I knew when I was a boy. In the future, we and our children will experience a common practice under constant change. We sometimes get to meet the doctor virtually, and we will experience far more outreach doctors who will actively participate in the dialogue with citizens with chronic diseases and who, in line with relief and treatment, will be able to advise us effectively on prevention. The family doctor and thus the role of the general practitioner in the Danish health care system, I think, will be even more important in the future. The general practitioner is today the Gatekeeper in relation to the rest of the health care system, and that role will probably be strengthened in the future. But the doctor is also, and will at the same time in the future also gradually be able to deal with more complex issues than today and thus be something even more by itself. Nevertheless, the medical practitioner of the future has in common with Dr Hansen that he enjoys the great trust of all of us. That is precisely why the family doctor is important to our children, because the young people who are becoming increasingly demanding, I should say hello from home, because the middle-aged people who have already researched their symptoms and possible diseases on the Internet before the consultation, and then, of course, for the elderly, who, with more and more chronic diseases, must in relatively complex courses of treatment, also for them, become the practicing doctor important. It is precisely the general practitioner who, like Dr Hansen, continues to have a personal relationship with patients and who will be our supervisor and who will be able to refer to further investigation and treatment within the framework of the patients' rights, which, fortunately, have now been reinstated. The then government, together with the Danish People's Party, agreed on a health reform before the last elections. After all, there is no longer a majority in favour of it, and peace with it, but the challenges addressed by our reform are, in fact, still missing. Therefore, there is also a significant need for a reform of our healthcare system. We will work to ensure that better medical coverage becomes part of the agreement we will hopefully eventually make. But we do not believe that it is enough to train only more doctors who will work in the long run. That is why we want, for example. to apply financial incentives so that doctors are encouraged to take in more patients than this norm number of normally 1,600 patients. We also want to create better physical frameworks, both here in the metropolitan area, but also in the slightly thinner populated areas of the country, which make it more attractive to establish yourself as a medical practitioner. We want more time in general practice in specialist training, which will also mean an additional workforce available in general practice. We want to give financial support to enable junior doctors in education to establish themselves in medical sheltered areas of the country, and then we want, alongside that, to get better medical treatment at all in the slightly more sparsely populated areas of the country, so that it is not only for the citizens of the metropolitan area to have specialist services. All of this is one of these. to strengthen the free choice, so that the individual Dane will have more opportunities when it comes to choosing a doctor, but also to ensure the future of the Danish health service, where we know that we need to strengthen the close health care to relieve our hospitals. We in the Left support the proposal from the Conservatives, but we are also convinced that general practice, that is to say the practitioners, is facing a major transformation in the years to come, when dialogue with patients and relatives will be quite different from what we knew from then, yes, excuse the expression, we had the old-fashioned family doctor Dr Hansen. I am absolutely convinced that the family doctor can handle this change, also by training more general practitioners, so that the family doctor will continue to be found throughout the country and therefore also in the geographically slightly thinner populated regions of our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105903	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120105904	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Martin Geertsen for the speech. I think it is interesting to raise precisely that aspect in relation to the whole transition that is taking place on issues of general practice and practitioners. That's where I think sir. Martin Geertsen is right, of course, that the new generation of general practitioners we are going to see will also be asking for some other options, i.e. the possibility of not necessarily having employer responsibility, the possibility of having professional sparring with others and perhaps even the possibility of shared positions and, at least, of being able to form part of collegial communities in other ways. That's why I'd like to hear Mr. Martin Geertsen on the conversion. Is Mr. Martin Geertsen agreed that this should include, for example: In other words, we have the possibility of establishing public regional clinics which are not subject to the rules of constant tendering, which, of course, violates the possibility of having a more permanent link. But this could, of course, ensure greater flexibility and, at the same time, also ensure that there is a possibility of having a permanent link with a doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110006	Now it's called private practitioners, and that's because here we have a sector that has traditionally been in the private part of our healthcare system in this country. And we really do not see any fundamental reason to change that. But I think sir... Peder Hvelplund is right that there are some practitioners who in future want to own their own outside number. the administration and the administration of bureaucracy and payroll payments, and what do I know, i.e. you want to take care of it yourself. But there will also be those who want to have one, what is called such a thing, back office to handle these things. And there are already examples of this not to start some long discussion with Mr. Per Larsen about sloppy clinics. There is, of course, a possibility that you can, if you may say so, get others to deal with the more bureaucratic parts of being a medical practitioner. So I agree with the analysis, but a little more concerned about the proposal from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110112	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110112-2	But then I have to understand that it is based solely on an ideological opposition to guaranteeing free elections for the establishment of regional clinics. Because we know that there is a demand for the possibility, among other things. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. can deliver a few hours in a hospital and others in a regional clinic. And this could help both to ensure better working conditions for the new general medical practitioners who want to work in practice, but also to ensure an increased opportunity for professional sparring. So you couldn't be open to that possibility since it's something that's being asked for?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110150-2	Yes, my mind is always open. But I guess there's nothing wrong with having a fundamental attitude to things. And basically, I think that the way in which general practice, which is in private hands, is and the way in which we have put things together today, is the right way. And then there may be some practitioners in the future who want help with everything that is not about, what to say, the centre of medical practice. On the other hand, I have a more relaxed relationship with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110214	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110233	Thank you very much. I have my speech here, but I'd like to say something before. One of the biggest mistakes we make in here is that we are symptom-treating, that we have a ministry working in pillars and not across and not looking at the challenges that are actually in the country, and looking at how we can solve them from below. Because what is the reason why we cannot get doctors to come to Lolland, which I myself mention, or anywhere else? What is the reason why fewer and fewer people decide to live in rural areas? What is the reason that it is older people and people on transfer income who are gradually drawing up the small villages? That is why it is difficult to attract people with high education and especially doctors to settle in an area where they may not have the community they are pursuing. What is the reason why we in Denmark feel like gathering together in these huge municipalities, Copenhagen, Aarhus, Odense, while letting everything else fall? When we talk about how to get doctors into the areas, it is an infrastructure problem that needs to be looked at, because it will be able to lift some of the areas it will be able to lift some of the people who live out there. I would like to start by thanking the Conservatives for bringing this up, as we have huge challenges in this area, especially in some places in the country that I have mentioned. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party are working on a lot, also because it is something that is very close to us especially to have a family doctor and that it is not just a health offer. In relation to what I also asked the Minister, this is the fact that more educational doctors are accepting you, that in regional clinics it is different doctors who are in the course of an education that receives you and who have to ask another doctor to know whether it is the right diagnosis or whether it is the right treatment, I would say that I fear that. I also fear that we will have a patch system instead of finding out how to ensure that real family doctors come out there, or at least some doctors who are there more than six months at a time. It's about there having to be someone who follows you when you get pregnant after you've given birth, but also when you come up with your sick children, someone who knows you who knows your family and can take care of it. Then it is true that in the case of problems where we just have to make a stick in our finger, or whatever it may be, we can go elsewhere, but that is what we have to solve, rather than just constantly treating symptoms. One of the things that we in the Danish People's Party have asked for is to look at how we can ensure that more citizens enter a few clinics, because we know that there is a lot of pressure on the doctors who are in these areas. We also know that over 50%. of those who call and want the doctor are older people who are worried. They begin to feel dizzy, they have fallen, they do not have control of the pills or whatever it may be, and there we want geriatric nurses with independent activity, who may be someone who just goes out and talks to the elderly, see how they are, how they live, etc., and it also makes the doctor able to take several other patients. These are some of the things we want, so you still have a clinic that knows the elderly well, and so it's the same person they meet and are comfortable with. Hopefully we could be some of the things you could take in this game. In relation to the proposal itself, I would say that we are positive and vote yes, but could we make a report where we also look at how we ensure that those who are then trained here do not just move to Norway because they do not want to sit Lolland, because that is what we are worried about? Or what if you stay in a hospital as a general medicine because you can't get a practice Copenhagen or exactly where you want it, Gentofte, or where it can be? We can train as many as we want, but we cannot force them to Lolland or to Esbjerg or somewhere else where they lack, Tingbjerg, which I also think is missing, in other words some of the places where there are actually challenges. That is our problem, and we also have to talk about it and tackle it before we can solve it with each one of us having a family doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110714	Christina Thorholm, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110720	I am pleased that the rapporteur is talking about other professions to relieve the general practitioner, because the practitioners have a great many tasks, some of which are more natural to them than others. Now, among other things, you mention... the geriatric nurse, but many also come with muscle skeletal problems where the practitioner does not necessarily have the best professional skills. So does Dansk Folkeparti also think of other professional skills to supplement the doctor's skills?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110757	Yes, indeed. After all, we have made a few suggestions in this regard that you should not have a reference to go to a physiotherapist, because it should not be necessary to have to see a doctor first and use the doctor's time and get a reference in order to come to a physiotherapist who actually knows more about the area of muscle and skeletal tissue. This could also apply to groups other than physiotherapists. There are also many who go to a chiropractor and have X-rays made and actually get the treatment they need. This is one of the things we need to look at, i.e. whether everything has to go through the doctor. It may be that we need to relax in some areas to ensure that other competences can come into play.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110835	Christina Thorholm for another brief comment? No. Then we thank Mrs Liselott Blixt. There are no more brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120110849	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Conservative People's Party for once again putting forward this proposal. I think it may also make sense that I will then re-use a great deal of the rapporteur's speech that I have already given, the last time the same proposal was before us. We continue to take seriously in the SF the challenge of lack of doctors in general practice, and a collective Parliament, including myself, also supports the great medical coverage agreement that we concluded in January 2017 • an agreement that was precisely intended to stem the lack of practitioners, but also an agreement in which I myself, even then, helped to claim that there is still a challenge we face and that this is a long, tough move with what we still have to resolve. This has also been addressed by the new government in agreement on the economy of the regions, where several main training courses have also been addressed, which is also an indication that we are constantly moving in the right direction. In fact, when the Conservatives propose to increase the number of primary education courses in general medicine, I also believe that the party is kicking in an open door, so to speak, because the medical coverage has indeed received very much attention in terms of health policy and rightly so. Especially when it comes to education in general medicine, we are challenged. It is said that it is not particularly attractive for young doctors to buy a clinic and to reduce themselves in an area where there may be a prospect of being locked for many years to come, not least at a time when we are thinking of mobility in the labour market. That is why we must also consider whether we can otherwise meet the needs of general practitioners. In the SF we believe, first of all, that patients should have the opportunity to have their own general practitioner, but whether or not their own medical practitioner is employed in the region and resident in a regional clinic, perhaps together with some other doctors, is not crucial to quality. However, new forms of ownership can determine how we can attract new practitioners in the future. It is also part of the discussion that we are generally challenged by the lack of doctors, including in other areas, in other specialties, and in parentheses I would like to say that we are also challenged by the lack of health professionals in general. Therefore, we also need to have a general focus on how we can make it more attractive to seek health education. Part of the solution can be more flexibility in the business areas of the respective professional groups, so that nurses and therapists can relieve doctors more of the burden, just as social and health assistants, medical secretaries and other health professionals may be able to relieve nurses more of the burden. Corona's had a terrible time with her, but it has also taught us something. Among other things: there are examples, in connection with the specialties having to work together across, that precisely interdisciplinaryity can benefit both quality and work satisfaction. When more smart heads stick their heads together, is there a better chance of patients getting back out of the hospital healthy and who does not want to see good results from today's work? The dimensioning of health education and also of doctors must remain high on the health policy agenda, but it makes sense to wait for a dimensioning plan in which we will also have the opportunity to assess medical coverage in general. In addition, I would also like to point out, for the sake of good order, that there is a significant financial cost to this proposal, which in isolation relates to practitioners, but I would like it to be addressed instead to a more interdisciplinary discussion, where we could also see the right and good solutions across the whole health sector. That is why the SF does not support the proposal this time either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111306	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111306-2	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. On the SF website it is noted that there is a great shortage of practitioners, especially in outlying areas and vulnerable residential areas. And up to the elections in 2019 you could read Kirsten Normann Andersen say to Health Policy Journal: Then the question is: What has changed? What is the reason why you don't even want to help solve this problem of medical shortages around Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111342	We would also very much like to continue to participate in this, which is why I also mention that, even before the elections, I pointed out that the plan that we made in 2017, that is to say the medical coverage agreement, was not sufficient, but that, with the financial agreements, we have, after all, set aside funds for several main training courses, so we are moving in the right direction. But at the same time, I also think that you have to see this in a larger context. In other words, we are about to negotiate a health reform, and I would like some of the tasks for which practitioners are patenting today to be tasks which might also be thought to be useful for other professional groups. That is why I believe that the question of business areas for the professional groups is a relevant discussion here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111430	Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111432	It is quite true that there is a shortage of health professionals across a broad front, and one can also see that the practitioners are gradually hiring very many nurses because they are simply so busy and have so many patients. But some of it could also be solved by training more general practitioners. Now the SF was involved in the financial law negotiations, so I cannot help asking: did you raise the problem in the financial law negotiations and ask for some more practitioners to be trained so that we can get to the level that is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111501	In the financial law negotiations, we have initially tried to address the acute problem of the lack of health care professionals. Corona has just shown that there have been huge cracks in the health service, perhaps much bigger than we had ever imagined, and they have had to be patched, so that we could also get through the winter safely with an emergency package of billions for a start. And then we are all waiting for some health reforms, where we might try to see if we can draw some new lines on the map.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111531	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111546	The general practitioner has a central function in close health care contact with the citizen when he either has a general health problem or needs a reference to specialised treatment. Over the past many years, too many people have not had a family doctor • more than 100,000 people • we cannot be aware of this, as the family doctor creates confidence and security and a better framework for equality in health. We need more practitioners because too many are without one, but also because we are getting more treatments in the near health care sector in the future; for what does not require specialised treatment must be done in the immediate environment and not in a hospital which is providing a highly specialised service. In the near health care sector, there will be more citizens being treated in cooperation with a general practitioner and the municipality's health workers, who are mainly nurses and social and health assistants, and in outpatient care in the hospital. And that means an increased need for practitioners. In addition, we are growing older with an increased proportion of the elderly in the population, while more people are living with more chronic disorders, which in turn leads to more people need contact with the general practitioner, as these treatments must be in the near health care area, where it is among other things. is important to focus on preventive action so that specialised treatment will not be necessary. It is wise to have a strong general practice where we have easy access to a family doctor to prevent and treat disease, as it reduces the cost of expensive hospitalizations. Fortunately, we have taken responsibility for the need for practitioners, among others. in the Sizing Agreement and the Economic Agreement, which are referred to where a 50 per cent increase is expected. in the number of specialists in general medicine up to 2040. And there has already been a substantial increase towards 2025. Several main training courses have been set up and several specialist posts have been created in general practice, all of which are in line with what the Conservatives have proposed. Radicals are interested in looking at other measures to increase the number of doctors who are interested in being a general practitioner, especially in areas of medical shortage. Here we see that relaxing the rules on how to establish regional clinics, promoting licensing clinics and allowing doctors to escape administrative work can facilitate the leap from being newly trained to being out in practice. So Radicals welcome the fact that the government is working on a new health reform with new initiatives to strengthen the work of the near health services; because with improved treatments for people with chronic suffering and for our elderly we need to get more doctors and we look forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111915	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120111917	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, which contains some good elements in many ways. But I don't really think they bite to fuck. You also write on your website: • Doctors are missing everywhere in Denmark. It gives insecurity to those who need help, and it is unacceptable in a welfare society based on free and equal access to the health system. Then my question is: why do you not want to make sure that we get to the 5,000 practitioners that the PLO predicts that there will be a need for forward-looking demographics, and because of the desire to strengthen the close health care and solve some more tasks in the near future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112002-2	Well, we expect it to be included in the negotiations on the reform of health. And then I think we should talk about what several rapporteurs have been talking about, which is what other professional groups can do in cooperation with the general practitioners, so that the pressure on the individual doctor will be reduced. We will need more, and we think that will be in the negotiations on the health agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112029	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112039	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by clarifying what I have also heard previous rapporteurs say, that this is really a re-submission. And I think that perhaps we should consider how many times a proposal has been retabled without there being any real news from that point of view. But that does not change the fact that this is, of course, an important discussion, which is why it makes sense for us to have it. In relation to the question of general practitioners, there is no doubt that we will not only lack general practitioners or general medical practitioners, but we will need doctors in the future, and that is why it is also essential to ensure that we have sufficient search for them. After all, this is not just about securing more main training positions. We have made an effort to get that, and I think that is sensible, but it is just as much about ensuring that we have good working conditions for the doctors who are going to work and therefore also ensuring that there is sufficient access to the main training positions. This is why it is also a question of making it more attractive to act as a general practitioner, for example. to improve the working environment. It is about closing limits which we in the Enhedslist clearly oppose raising because we already know that there is a problem with the working environment for many general practitioners. And there are stress problems; they face much greater complexity in those cases in relation to both multi-sick and older medical patients, but also in general patients with mental disorders and patient groups, who in general have a higher degree of complexity. This is, of course, a problem which we will probably also see increasing in the years to come, including with the pressure that comes from the nearest health care system. So it is also about ensuring that we get a better working environment for general practitioners, and there we know that some of what is being demanded from among others. In other words, what can make it attractive to get into general practice is to ensure that a higher level of professional sparring is possible, that employers are not necessarily responsible for a wide range of administrative tasks, and that there can still be scope for e.g. to do research. That is why I think it is obvious to look at the possibility of freeing up regional clinics and precisely ensuring that there are shared positions. We also know that there are many ordinary doctors who are currently working in hospitals, and it will also be possible to open up the possibility that, in addition to working in a hospital, they might also be able to deliver a few hours or a few days a week in a general practice in a regional clinic. This also ensures continuity, i.e. in relation to the fact that regional clinics do not always have to be offered, which means that it is difficult to get doctors to look for jobs there in order to stay there for a longer period of time. So I think it is obvious to look at the possibility of freeing up regional clinics precisely to ensure better opportunities for the new generation of general medical practitioners and to make it more attractive to be able to work in general practice. So, in addition to the measures that have already been taken, I believe that there are a number of things that we can do both to improve the working environment, but also to make it more attractive to work as a general medicine out in practice. Then, of course, we will also have to comment on the fact that the proposal here will mean an expense for which no funding has been allocated. And perhaps I also think that it is a little fresh enough of a party that claims financial responsibility to make a proposal without providing funding for it. Overall, this means that we will not be supporting this proposal. We agree that there are such problems, but we believe that it should also be looked at more widely and that there are some other solutions to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112515	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112518	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. We also discussed the subject last year, because it is true that it is a reappearance, and it is a bit due to the fact that since the Prime Minister actually included the subject in his New Year's speech, I was so pleased that I thought: Now we are trying again. Because if it is the case that the Social Democrats have changed their attitude, they must have the opportunity to do so. When we last discussed it, Mrs Pernille Skipper said that the lack of general practitioners is a major threat to health inequality. I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper on that. My question is: did you bring any proposals on the table in the Enhedslisten when you negotiated Finance Act? For there were actually negotiations for 1.2 billion. kr. This will cost 38 million in 2022. kr., i.e. quite small money compared to the 1.2 billion. kr., which was negotiated in connection with the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112614-2	I have just one good advice for the Conservative rapporteur: if there is any doubt as to whether a party has moved in a different direction, it is possible to approach that party and then ask whether there was any possibility of pushing through a political solution. But fair enough. In addition to the financing part, it is not just a single item of expenditure for one year that the proposers themselves write in the proposal. In addition to this, it is a question of our having to look more closely at this, because the problem of providing doctors, both in vulnerable residential areas and also in sparsely populated areas, is not only solved by creating more main training positions; it is solved by making it more attractive to get to work in those areas. We have seen in outskirts, in other words in places where there is both a shortage of general practitioners, but where there is also a shortage of specialists in hospitals, that there has been the possibility of freeing up regional clinics and exempting them from the coercion that exists in relation to their having to be offered, with a certain cadence, and that could be one of the options that could be to ensure greater search for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112725	Sir. Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112725-2	When I hear the rapporteur's talk about regional clinics, I get a little nervous about continuity. For typically regional clinics are something where there are typically some perhaps retired doctors who are looking for a few hours a week. These may be some who may not be trained as general medical practitioners at all, but may be X - ray doctors who are employed in the clinics. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that if you have a practice with an outside number and, for example, 1,600 patients, which is typical of what we see, it will provide a better continuity for patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112803	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112804	But it is a political choice that we have broken that continuity, because it is, after all, because they require them to be put out to tender every two years. In other words, we know that there is a great deal of demand from junior doctors as well, in order to ensure the possibility of employment, where there is no employer responsibility, where there is scope for research, where there is a possibility of collegiate sparring, and that is exactly what could be guaranteed in regional clinics if they were released, and thus it would also allow for a greater degree of continuity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112830	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And since I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, apart from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, it is now Mr Gundelach. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120112855	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your comments on our proposal. Too many Danes do not have the opportunity to have their own practicing doctor. Those were the Prime Minister's words on the first day of the new year, and of course I was really, really happy there. After all, we have had a shortage of practitioners for too many years, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. In fact, we had a shortage even when the regions were formed 16 years ago. The problem was actually well known, and that is why it was also in some schemes where you had to pay some of the doctors with extra fees, generational agreements and various other things that made you try to keep the pieces together. At the moment, it is between 100,000 and 150,000 Danes who are referred to a clinic with changing temporary workers doctors, and that is certainly not satisfactory. At the same time, doctors are often also so busy that it can be difficult to get time with their doctor. In fact, I often think I get inquiries about that. What can we do about this proposal here? Yes, there we can solve the problem once and for all, so that we can ensure that we do not find ourselves in the same situation in the future. After all, we have a great need to have some more practitioners. We know that the prognosis says that there will be twice as many 80+-year-olds, and we know that this is the time when you can see that there is more need for medical care with age. We also all have a goal that we would like to relieve hospitals and simply ensure more capacity in the near health care system, and that is exactly where the practitioners belong. Practising doctors is a good thing. They can keep the patients out of the hospitals. The fact that you know your patients and that patients know your doctor provides a good continuity, which can help improve medical work. It almost goes without saying that if the doctor in the clinic finds that it is a new patient whom the doctor has never seen before coming in through the door, it does not provide the same quality of medical work as if it is a well-known group of patients that the doctor knows. I am just thinking of all the chronically ill, the multi-sick, the vulnerable patients, the mentally ill, and people who have come into a life crisis, and that it is of enormous importance if you have a doctor who you know. At least there are a lot of cronys who often talk about it here, saying that it is quite awful to come to a doctor, with the short time set aside for the consultation, if the doctor does not know the patient and therefore have to start reading the file to find out what is ahead of this. The last time we discussed this, the proposal was voted down by the red parties, but I had hoped and expected that there would be a movement, as the Prime Minister had it in his New Year speech. Then there is a problem with the financing of it, and so, in our optics, we cannot afford not to. The lack of practitioners is increasing pressure on our hospitals, and this is a huge problem which I think we need to take seriously. The 38 million. kr., as it costs to start it up in 2022, is a quite insignificant amount compared to the huge problem that is out there in the regions, when you see what is being used by increased funds for supply clinics and for temporary employment. It is, in general, large amounts that are being spent out there, and I am quite sure that the regions themselves would have liked to have been involved in financing it if it were the case that we asked them. And in view of the fact that there is no money available, it can be said that the Ministry of Finance operates with an economic space of 2025 of 16 billion. kr., so it would probably be possible to get it funded if it were the case that there was a will for it and it was agreed here in the Folketing. So for me, it is all about will or lack of will. 400 additional main training courses and 195 additional introductory positions could solve the problem once and for all, so that we could get to the level needed, and thus ensure that we could reduce the number of patients in our hospitals, that we could have a better availability and that everyone could have the opportunity to choose their own doctor. Because it is an option that does not really exist today: one has the opportunity to choose one's own doctor according to age, gender, geography and other things. But of course we take note of the fact that there does not seem to be a majority in favour of our proposal right now, and then we have to take it with us when we have to negotiate a health agreement, because it is imperative that we get to the level so that we ensure that all Danes, as the Prime Minister so rightly pointed out in his New Year speech, have the right to have a doctor of their own, as we know. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113438	Thank you. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113442	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur reply to Mr Seligman's question. Peder Hvelplund at an earlier stage, and I can also hear in the rapporteur's own rapporteur's speech now, that the explanation that this proposal is being retabled, even though there is nothing in the sun and moon and stars that suggests that the post for it has been changed.Everyone would really like to solve this problem, but there are different approaches to how to solve it is the Prime Minister's New Year speech. The rapporteur keeps referring to the Prime Minister's New Year speech. I just want to hear what caused the Prime Minister's New Year's speech to have the rapporteur refer to this proposal and whether there is a connection between the Prime Minister's New Year's speech and the fact that Conservatives are resubmitting this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113527	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113529	The context is, of course, that when, on the first day of the year, the Prime Minister, at the very best time available, talks that it is important for people in Denmark to have access to a medical practitioner, then I get so happy and think: Okay, then there must be something behind it. Then you must have had a discussion that is what you want, namely to ensure that all Danes have a doctor who they know. Then I thought it was obvious that we were saying: okay, if there has been a movement in the Social Democratic Party, they should also have the opportunity to prove it here in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113604	Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113605	Thank you. It is just because I can see that the rapporteur made the proposal on 9 November 2021 and then I simply get so curious about what kind of relations the rapporteur has with the Prime Minister in relation to the New Year's speech that we others do not have, because it could be wonderful if we could also be so forward-looking in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113622-2	Now it might be that the Prime Minister had perhaps read my proposal before she wrote her New Year's speech. You can never know that, but some kind of optimism is allowed to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113636	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113639	Thank you. Now, on the other hand, it is my turn to be very uplifted by something, as the rapporteur said, because the rapporteur stressed that there is a huge surplus on state finances and that we can easily use funds to invest in welfare. Then I just want to know whether this is a general view of the Conservative People's Party that we are now in a situation where we can actually invest in welfare, and whether this also means that the Conservative People's Party will then be willing to vote in favour of a welfare law in which we ensure that the funds go with the rising costs. Or is it just a lone swallow in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113722	Thank you. After all, the welfare law is not something that has been cultivated in our gardens. And in discussing whether we should have some more general practitioners, I would say that I simply do not think we can afford not to. I think it is so imperative that we ensure that everyone has a doctor who they know and who knows his patients because it provides a high quality of medical work. We simply cannot be aware that there are up to 150,000 Danes who do not have a doctor they know and who have their own clinic with their own external number and patient population. We simply think this is so important that we ensure it. It costs plenty of money in the regions every single day that you have to get through by making solutions that can continue to ensure that people have access to medical services after all. So it is incredibly important that we ensure that we have enough doctors in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113814	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113816	It is quite right that health care efficiency also has enormous consequences for the bill that will then be for patients who cannot get the right treatment or staff who will have to run too fast. It has enormous consequences when you do not ensure that sufficient funds are provided for the tasks you are commissioning. 16 billion kr. There's plenty of money. Is it not reasonable, then, that we should ensure that we keep our hand under welfare and that we invest in it, so that prevention applies to all areas and not just specifically to this? For that is what I fully agree with: of course we must ensure it. However, it may be wise to indicate the specific funding. So does this also apply to other proposals to hold hands under welfare than just this specifically?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113902	That depends entirely on how to define it. In other words, the resources in the room for manoeuvre must be negotiated, and there it will be up to the various parties to bid with what they think they are going to give priority. There is no doubt that we will in any case give priority to our health services being in a better position than they are at the moment, because we can see that there is enormous pressure on our health services not only because of covid, but the ambulances are simply driving more than they have ever been driving, and we also know that because of the increasing life expectancy, the challenge is just getting bigger and bigger. That is why we need to ensure that we have a robust healthcare system that can also take a pandemic if one of these comes back another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113946	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Public Health and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120113957	The debate is open. It's the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114024	Thank you very much. The resolution we are wearing here is from SF's Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk and Mr Mølbæk. Jacob Mark. The Government is invited to submit legislative proposals before 1 November to the effect that the fees and remuneration received by mayors, councilmen and regional presidents in addition to the mayor's and chairman's bill of employment and management posts in inter-municipal companies, supply, waste and section 60 companies shall be paid to the municipality or municipalities and to the region which they represent. As the remuneration rules are today, mayors, magistrates and presidents of executive committees in municipalities with shared administrative management and regional presidents receive a full-time remuneration for the performance of this task. The fact that they are given a full-time allowance is due to the fact that their duties include the function of chief Chief Executive of the Municipal Administration, or part of it. For the sake of simplicity, in the rest of the speech, I would like to refer to that group as mayors. Mayors may not receive remuneration other than full-time remuneration from the municipality's cashier in order to hold a municipal office. As the rules are today, there is nothing to prevent a mayor from receiving remuneration from persons other than the municipality for duties which the mayor disputes in a company or the like. The amount of such remuneration shall not be determined by the local and regional rules of remuneration but shall be determined in accordance with the rules governing the performance of the duties in question. Thus, if a mayor holds a management position in a limited liability company governed by the Companies Act, the performance of his duties will be governed by the rules of the Companies Act, unless special rules are laid down by sectoral law. Municipal communities are not governed by private law by the Companies Act, but by public authorities. The remuneration of a board of directors of a municipal company must therefore be laid down in the statutes of the municipal community. The statutes of the medium-sized and large municipal communities must be approved by municipal supervision. In small municipal communities, it can only be provided that board members are provided with diets and compensation for documented lost earnings. When we have to deal with the motion for a resolution, it is, of course, true, as the authors of the motion also say in their explanatory statement, that it will often be the case that the mayor is appointed by the municipality to sit on a board of directors of a company or the like. However, this does not change the fact that there are special tasks, additional work and additional responsibilities attached to being a board member of a company. Thus, to the same extent as other members of the board with the same function in the company, the mayor in question could be liable to the company if, in the performance of his duties, he intentionally or negligently added a loss to the company. It is therefore the government's view that it is reasonable to receive a special remuneration if, as mayor or regional chairman, one takes on an additional role in the specific tasks, extra work and additional responsibilities associated with such a board's duties. Furthermore, from the point of view of equality, mayors should not be different from the other board members. Mayors have the same tasks, the same responsibilities as the other board members with the same function in the company and the same duties and responsibilities as if an outside officer held the chair on the board. Is it not very reasonable for the mayors to receive the same remuneration as they do if they have the same tasks and the same responsibilities, but they are not the mayor? That is the basic question. The government also stresses the need for full transparency in such a remuneration. All members of municipal councils shall indicate the amount of remuneration they receive for duties for which they have been appointed by the municipality or proposed to them. Of course, that also applies to the mayor. The municipality shall also publish the members who receive the remuneration and the amount of the remuneration. The same applies to regions. In this way, we will ensure transparency of remuneration, which will give the public an insight into the level of remuneration received by each mayor in order to carry out the board's duties. It is an insight that allows for democratic control of remuneration and its size. And then we come to the issue of the up-regulation of the mayor's pensions in 2016, which the proposers also mention. The then Left Government entered into voting agreements with the Social Democracy, Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance in 2016 on the change of the administration of full-time politicians. In this context, a number of improvements were made. The remuneration of mayors at 31.4% recommended by the Salaries Commission. This increase in remuneration corresponded to the difference between the development of remuneration since 1994 and the actual wage developments in the local and regional labour market. The reason for the increase in remuneration was that mayors had long lagged behind in comparison with developments for public employees. The increase also corresponds to the increase in remuneration decided on for ordinary members of the municipal council in 2014 on the same basis, namely that the remuneration was lagging behind in relation to the wage developments for public employees. The aim and prerequisite of these increases in remuneration for mayors was therefore to regulate remuneration in relation to the level of comparable remuneration. On the other hand, the increases are not based on the fact that mayors can no longer be attached for their particular tasks and their responsibilities on board boards. The conditions for this were not changed. The voting agreements have therefore brought together the level of remuneration of the mayors and the possibility of receiving separate remuneration for board posts and the like was not modified as part of this, and the government does not find any basis for amending these agreements and thus amending the remuneration conditions for mayors. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I would also like to say, as a small comment in the end, that there is a full possibility in a number of contexts that the mayors themselves may choose to waive a remuneration if they so wish. There are several mayors, among others. The mayor of Svendborg and the mayor of Aalborg, who has done so, is of course an opportunity for all mayors. If you wish, you can choose not to accept the remuneration for different board positions. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114616	Thank you. Jan Bjergskov Larsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114619	Thank you. Now the Minister mentions the remuneration commission, and is it quite clear that the remuneration commission, when recommended here by 31.4%, also recommended, in the same moment, that exactly the remuneration mentioned in this motion for a resolution should be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114644	It may well be that they mentioned it, but the political agreement that was made at the time was an overall agreement on the remuneration of mayors. The reason why this was regulated was that the public labour market was lagging behind, not even the private labour market, but the public employees, who the mayors were running. And what do you get as mayor of a small town? You might get 800,000 kroner. I believe that every year, and you will then be less paid than your municipal manager, but in many cases you will also be less paid than the professional directors who are in the municipality in question. I would have thought it strange if it were also the case that ordinary managers of municipal units should be better paid, so that it was about 10-15 people who had a better salary than the mayor. So in this way I can stand a hundred per cent at the goal that we made that regulation, even if it will still be the case that you can be paid for, for example. to sit in a utility company or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114747	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114748	Thank you. We agree that a mayor is responsible for the tasks and areas within the municipality which he believes can actually serve the municipality best. It is SF's view that if you as mayor choose to take one of these duties or board duties, it is because you think you have an interest in performing it as mayor, ergo it should also be included in the salary you receive as mayor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114816	I did not hear a question, but I agree that it is at least the SF's position. However, as I also said in my introduction, you are a board member of a company exactly on the same terms as other board members, and therefore, of course, the same conditions must also apply. If you do not want to receive remuneration, as is the case, for example, with the mayor of Svendborg or the mayor of Aalborg, then you have the opportunity to do so, but I think it is quite reasonable that, when you have extra work connected with sitting on a board of an educational institution, a utility company, or whatever you can imagine, you should also be paid for it, and I do not think that it should be prevented by ensuring fair conditions for the pay of the mayors.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114901	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114907	Thank you. It was actually just the last thing the Minister said that just got me to take the floor. Because, of course, you have to be paid for the work you do. But if you sit on a board of directors as mayor, you sit there because you want to serve, you can say, the purpose of the municipality and what the municipality wants to bring forward, or what the municipality is working for. And that's what you get paid for in advance, that's what you're paid for in advance as mayor. And that's why what the minister describes is the little double pay. And that is where we share the view in the Enhedslisten that it might be a little unfair. So it's just like to understand: how can it be that the government doesn't think that you as mayor are paid in advance? Well, why do you have to have this extra to sit on a board of directors on behalf of the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120114959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115000	Well, that's because you're equal to the other board members and you have the same responsibility, including possible criminal liability, if it comes to that. And that is why, of course, you have to be on the same terms. But I would also like to say that we are now discussing a great deal at the moment, what rules we are making for the municipalities and how tight we need to regulate the municipalities. And I have to say that here too the individual mayor is quite free to say: I do not want that subsidy. But it also does so for members of the Enhedslisten or the Socialist People's Party, who support a possible Social Democratic mayor, in relation to saying, as part of a constitution agreement: Well you must not sit there, we do not want that here locally. That is a possibility for people to set things up democratically and live it out in each municipality. And I think that is actually fine and not something that we have to decide from in here. There is a room for manoeuvre locally available to secure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115048	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115048-2	It is absolutely true that when you make a constitution agreement, you can put all sorts of things into that agreement. Just to clarify: The problem is not that you sit on the board and represent the municipality. The problem is, you get this double salary, you get the money twice. You're already paid as mayor for the work you do. And that's why we just think it's a little weird that you have to pay extra. That could be fine, in any case, I think that you are on a board of directors. But that is the thing about a double wage, which is actually some money that could be better spent, in most municipalities. That would be my guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115130	Thank you. Well, it's a perfectly legitimate attitude to say that that money could be better spent. I think it is fair enough to say that if you sit on a board, you get a remuneration for the responsibility you have there. It's not like it's a very large amount of money. But I also think we should say that if we really believe that more decisions should be taken locally and that we in Christiansborg should regulate less in detail, then I also think the conclusion here is that it is the individual municipality and the individual constitution agreement, where we can, of course, make the decision to say transparently and with open eyes, that we do not want the mayor to sit on the board of an educational institution or the board of directors of a supply company or whatever it may be. It is, of course, a political decision in each municipality, and I think there should be some room for doing that, as you think best locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115207	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115212	Thank you. I think there is something remarkable about the fact that we have the remuneration commission which recommends that these fees should not be paid. Now we are talking about constitution agreements, and a large part of the constitution agreements in many places are, of course, that you are paid with some good leg to do something political. And would it not be healthy if we could pull out some of that dynamic, if we can call it that, so that it really was about politics in the constitution agreements and not about giving out good legs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115244	No, I think it is precisely a quality that you can decide locally how to do it. After all, I am following what is going on in debates, now that all the constitution agreements have been made, and that is where I can, for example. see in Lejre Municipality that you have tripled the fee to the deputy mayor as part of an agreement between two parties. I think that will be an opportunity to see if the Deputy Mayor can play a more active role in the municipal administration in Lejre, and it may mean that a different balance can be struck in the relationship between the mayor and the deputy mayor. Let's try to see what it's gonna turn into. They must, of course, be able to defend to their constituents and to the municipality that they will spend the money on a deputy mayor being paid better. But it is also the variation that sometimes makes us find new solutions around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115327	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115328	But will the Minister not admit that the fact that one way or the other is to pay with money instead of politics is to distort it? Well, it makes you get paid as a party by that person just getting that post that then gives the person $50,000. Every year, and then you go along with some politics. If we could draw that money out of it, it would actually be about negotiating politics; and the constitution agreements were about the political content and not about an economic payment to it or it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115403	Well, you can do that, but that would mean completely removing the structure we have with committee chairmen. After all, the management posts are a small part of the total income that you have as a municipal councillor. You have a base layer, and you have a base layer, for example. Very attractive positions of committee chairman; they far exceed in almost all municipalities the remuneration paid for sitting in a utility company or elsewhere. And then, at least, you had to roll it back if you wanted to have that arrangement in full. Because I think that many constitution agreements are being made today in such a way that it is important for the agreements, who gets which committees and how much you get as committee chairman.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115444	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we go to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115503	I am here as a substitute for our rapporteur, Birgitte Vind, who unfortunately cannot be here. This motion for a resolution by the SF is about the fact that certain fees and fees received by mayors, Councilmen and regional presidents should instead be paid to the municipality or municipalities and the region that they represent. This applies to fees and remuneration for duties and board positions in intercommunal companies and utilities, waste and section 60 companies. Adoption of the proposal will make it less coherent how we honour certain local and regional politicians. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, we think it is right that a mayor or chairman of the Regional Council, who takes on an additional task and therefore an additional responsibility, should be honoured for it. It is not without costs in terms of time or without responsibility to sit on boards. Moreover, there is full transparency about what mayors, councilmen and regional presidents receive in terms of remuneration and fees. This also applies to ordinary members of municipal or regional councils. So there is no doubt or secrecy in this context about who receives what. Secondly, it is not entirely related that the proposal is confined to mayors, Councilmen and regional presidents. If one wanted to be consistent, the logic would be that ordinary members of municipal or regional councils would also not have to have a fee. We find that the distinction between mayors and municipal councillors, for example, is not fair. Finally, it would be specific that there would be individual members of a board who do not receive a fee while the other members do. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115641	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Left. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115653	Thank you for the floor. Do you need remuneration in Denmark to do a job on a board of directors, regardless of who you are? In fact, we in the Left believe that we should. That is why we also believe that it is right for a mayor, a Councilman or a Regional Council President to be paid for the work he is doing, even if he is on a board of directors. When the SF today proposes that we remove the remuneration of mayors, councilmen and regional council presidents, for example. in relation to a board post, and instead giving the money to the municipality or region that they represent, we also have to ask ourselves an important question: do we also want competent forces in the future to be motivated to put hours of work and dedication into carrying out the important tasks, for example. a board of directors of a municipal company? I have to say that we in the Left still think this is important. Basically, I believe that an economic carrot can also be an incentive for people to make an extra effort to do so. So all in all, we have to say that the motion for a resolution, which the SF is presenting today, cannot be supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115825	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120115840	Thank you very much to the SF for this suggestion. When you are mayor or chairman of the regional council, it is a full-time job with you in and out quite well paid. That is why it is quite obvious that there should be no extra income by denying the functions that come with the job. It is therefore quite clear that there is a need to look at what additional revenue there is for mayors and regional council presidents. We in the Danish People's Party have on several occasions put forward proposals to limit the post-regulation to mayors and regional councils, which have also been supported by among others. SF. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats and the Left have every time been opposed. One could get the idea that it is because those parties have many mayors, so it is difficult for them to look at it objectively. I just find it hard to explain why a mayor on top of his salary of about 1 million. kr. a year must also be paid a fee to sit in the municipal companies. Unfortunately, it helps to give a picture of the pamphlet. In the Danish People's Party, we would like to go further than this motion for a resolution, because why exempt from the fee of representing the municipality in various other places when you have already been paid for a full-time job? The remuneration commission came, as has also been mentioned, with recommendations on mayors' salaries in 2016, and recommended that mayors should be off-set when performing other duties due as a result of their political duties. At that time, however, a majority in the Folketing decided to raise the mayors' salary and failed to follow the recommendation that actually followed on the set-off. So I and the Danish People's Party would like more steps to be taken, but in the Danish People's Party we are always in favour of taking small steps in the right direction, so there is full support from the Danish People's Party for the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120029	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120050	Radical Left supports the SF's proposal in principle. The mayors' salaries were raised for a full-time salary in 2016, and many mayors receive about 1 million. kr. in consideration. So the salary is regulated so that it is more commensurate with the responsibility. As has been rightly mentioned, the remuneration commission had some recommendations which the Folketing did not follow. This is the reason why we are again discussing how mayors are paid for extra posts. We look forward to entering into negotiations on this, as we believe that there should be proportionality in this, and the mayors' salary was taken back in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120147	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120203	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution, which we very much agree with in the Enhedslisten. We believe that it is very important that we maintain that mayors and Councilmen have one main office, that of the citizens, of the electorate, namely to be mayor or alderman. And in that job you can get various other posts that come with it, but what we find strange is that you have to pay extra to do something that actually goes with the job you already have. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, when he says it creates a picture of the pampire. I believe that this is the last thing that the mayor's office or, in any case, the political profession needs, in other words, that a picture of pamphlet is being created and a picture is being created that both mayors and aldermen, but, as such, ministers and politicians are only doing what they are doing to mellow their own cake. I believe that this is exactly the opposite of what our democracy needs. Therefore, in the Enhedslisten, we can warmly support this proposal, and we believe in general terms that we should take a discussion that goes beyond what the Pay Commission has come up with, on how to deal with the lucrative benefits that exist, both on the pay front, if one can say so, but also in relation to pensions, and in relation to side jobs and side jobs. Unfortunately, although Denmark is a country that does not have a particularly high level of corruption, we are still a country that goes further and further down the rankings where it measures which countries are most democratic and which countries have the most transparency in terms of the flow of funds in politics. Unfortunately, I think that, when you are mayor or alderman, you can make a double profit, you can enter into a tale that there is no transparency and that we who are engaged in making political changes are only doing so to mellow our own cake. As a matter of principle, I think this is a bad idea, but I also think that it is part of a story that we at Christiansborg have a responsibility to do away with. That is why the Enhedslisten can warmly support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120439	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120504	Thank you for the floor. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution by the Socialist People's Party on a draft parliamentary resolution on the remuneration of mayors and presidents of the regional councils for administrative and inter-communal duties. The proposal provides that the fees and remuneration paid to mayors, aldermen and regional presidents in addition to the mayor's and chairman's remuneration from duties and board posts in intercommunal companies and supply, waste and section 60 companies should be allocated to the municipality or municipalities and the region which they represent. In the Conservative People's Party, we are of the opinion that it is not unreasonable with a fee that reflects an extra effort, work and responsibility that goes with it. And the individual is free to renounce the consideration. We attach importance to the full transparency of such remuneration; members of the municipal and regional councils, including mayors and regional council presidents, are obliged to indicate the amount of remuneration they receive for election or proposal by the municipality or region. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120608	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance isn't here. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120628	In other words, I agree with a great deal of what has been said, among other things. from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and can actually be very brief: when you are elected mayor, you have a great office of trust, and then you have to do your job and not go after the good legs everywhere else. You have to concentrate on what you are chosen for by the citizens. Then let it be the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120656	Thank you. It does not appear that the rest of the parties are present, so that is why the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jan Bjergskov Larsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120708	Thank you very much. The SF's proposal is basically about exactly the holders of the items I have mentioned, i.e.: posts as mayors, councilmen and regional council presidents have received a salary increase of approx. 31.4% Back in 2016. The basis for this was that an electoral commission had actually looked at the entire wage composition and, as was also said by the Danish People's Party, it is important that it just recommended that if you had income from these duties, it was set off against the salary. It chose a parliamentary majority at the time to look at big things, and somewhere it just sends a signal that we politicians are different: we are above all possible other practices, and if we think that the pay somebody gets is not big enough, then there are plenty of opportunities to make a purchase wage. This is a buy-in wage, it's a double salary that these mayors, Councilmen and Regional Council Presidents can actually give themselves. There is no doubt that SF believes that the salary you receive as mayor is a salary for the entire work of the mayor or alderman of the municipality or regional council president. If you choose to set different priorities, if you choose to spend some of your time on some of these duties or boards, yes, it is your choice, then in principle you do it in your spare time, and then you do it in principle without having to have any extra fee for it. In addition to the fact that we from the SF do not think that one should be gilded even more, yes, perhaps a possible positive side benefit may also be that power is actually spread out more, so that it is not the mayors who sit on these very powerful professions and board positions, but that it is ordinary, ordinary councillors or regional councillors who are more than at present. can hold these records. From the SF's point of view, we are actually pleased with the broad support that has actually been given to our proposals here. Of course, we had hoped that some of the major parties and some of the major mayor parties had supported it, but that was not the case. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120120937	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak in this debate. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed. That's not good. It is the Parliamentary Chamber that is important, I just have to clarify that. We'll give the minister 1⁄2 minutes and not more. Minister, please put the long leg ahead. It is unacceptable that a minister should not be present in the Chamber and that we should wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120121110	The debate is open. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120121125	Thank you. The legislative proposal that we are going to deal with now contains, as the title reveals, criminalisation of identity abuses. Identity abuse may sound a little technical, but it covers something that can be experienced as both very unpleasant and very intrusive for the people who are exposed to it, namely the theft of one's person, of one's identity. Most people have probably tried to steal something, to steal his bike, for example. It's very annoying, and it can ruin your day, but when we talk about identity theft, we're talking about someone, maybe for a long time, who hasn't taken a stake from you, but has taken your person away from you. They have taken your picture, and they have acted in your name; they have done a lot of things online, contacted other people and perhaps behaved unpleasantly, without as such being something really criminal. They have become a version of you, and you have no way of controlling it or of stopping it. It must be extremely uncomfortable and insecure to be exposed to, and unfortunately this is something that happens all too often to this day. And with increasing use of social media, we need to address this kind of abuse and make it very clear that we will of course not accept that. We already have rules against identity abuse, but they do not cover these new forms of identity theft, where it is not about achieving anything in terms of financial gain. And that is why it was also a very, very important step, when the government, together with the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, launched the initiative on the criminalisation of identity theft, which is now being translated into this bill. The bill gives us a new and independent provision which criminalises the abuse of identity, namely Article 264 of the Criminal Code. First of all, the provision makes it a criminal offence when a perpetrator falsely claims to be someone else. This may be the case, for example, where a perpetrator uses another person's name or image on a social medium or uses another person's identity on a dating page, which there have been several examples of lately. Secondly, it is made a criminal offence to pass on material in which a perpetrator did not appear to be someone else, but wrongly manipulated someone else's appearance. This may include, for example, so-called deepfake videos, where you can suddenly see the face of another person who might do and say things that they would never have done or said themselves. The provision will have a penalty of fines or imprisonment up to 6 months, and the starting point is that the infringement will be punished with a fine of DKK 10,000. The Internet remembers, and therefore it is also important that information related to the misuse of identity be removed. The draft law will require the removal of information if possible, but also of persons who have the information at their disposal, to be required to delete it. It should give a little more peace in the stomach in the future. We must ensure that our legislation follows with time and can strike when the perpetrators abuse the identity of others. And there is no doubt that this bill is an important step in protecting the victims of identity abuse and, of course, it is a legislative proposal that we can support. And then I should like to welcome our good colleagues in the Radical Left and say that they also support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120121505	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs. Anne Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120121528	This bill is about criminalising identity abuse. That leads to the obvious question: is it not already illegal today? And here is the answer both yes and no. Identity abuse is already illegal in a large number of cases, for example where identity abuse occurs as part of fraud, hacking or document counterfeiting. But it's not illegal in all cases. For example, it is not illegal in itself to impersonate another person. It could be by creating a profile on social media where you pretend to be someone else. I think most of us can understand that it would be an extremely unpleasant experience if it happened to us. Of course, we do not know the extent of identity theft, but the latest victim survey shows that up to 20,000 Danes in 2019 were subjected to misuse of personal data. And then we have all read the stories in public about how this has a major impact on some of the victims of identity theft. One of the examples is the family father Niklas Roar from Copenhagen. Niklas Roar has been exposed to his image being used for fake profiles on both Tinder, Facebook and Instagram profiles, which have been highly active and have hundreds of followers. As Niklas Roar himself has said: "I don't fucking like that. I really feel like you've crossed the line. More than 500 people follow this person and like the life that he pretends to live, even though it is my life that he renders as his own. This is really unpleasant... Unfortunately, the perpetrator cannot be punished by the current legislation. That is why, in the view of the Left, it is necessary to update the legislation so that it is up to date and so that we have the opportunity to seek out and punish the perpetrators. The Left therefore supports the bill and looks forward to the committee reading. On behalf of the new citizens, I should like to say that they also support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120121732	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120121754	New, modern times. Yeah, who would have thought we were going to talk about online identity theft in 2022? I didn't expect that when I grew up. But unfortunately we see more and more that these things happen because of social media; new things come to. In the Danish People's Party, we are very happy to have a legislative proposal. This is something we have fought hard with for many years to get legislation in this area. I know that our legal rapporteur, sir. Peter Skaarup, has just fought for a punishment for making an identity theft that is not just about money. We've seen how some people take pictures and names and pretend to be a person to either give a bad picture of them, order things for them or make themselves up for someone they want to know or get some response from. So there may be many different reasons why they do so • not always financial reasons. And of course it must be punished. It is wrong to take on another person's identity. That is why we are very pleased that the proposal comes up, but we would like to appeal that when it only, in the goose's eyes, gives fines there are also plenty inside the prisons so it must be fines that can be felt! It should not be worth saying: Well I would like to do this because my ex or the politician or the well-known person has done it and so I will now punish the person by stealing the identity and doing some things. There may be many reasons for this, but no matter what there must be a punishment that can be felt. That is what we want. So we agree with the proposal as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120122003	Thank you. There are no comments, and then it is the rapporteur for the SF who will be on in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120122014	Thank you. Unfortunately, our rapporteur did not have the opportunity to be here, and that is why I shall be presenting her speech. Today we are implementing a SF resolution which is about making identity theft a criminal offence. Thank you to the Minister for acting on it and to the Enhedslisten and Radicals for contributing to the majority. When a person is subjected to abuse of identity, it is a very serious violation of private life. In these cases, the victim is often totally and utterly powerless against the perpetrator's actions, for the victim typically cannot do anything against the abuse, because it is not separately criminalised in Danish legislation today, especially when there is no economic motive. In this situation, no account is taken at all of the fact that the digital system provides for hundreds of violations directed against a person who runs at the root of different authorities or voluntary organisations for help. This was the case with Malte. Maybe you remember him from DR's history of Malte and the 100 fake falling in love. If you do, you also understand why this proposal is important. A person grabbed Malte's identity and his pictures and created a love relationship with a lot of girls. Malte accidentally discovered that it had happened because an unknown girl confronted him with it. It was a huge job to unravel who was behind it, and Malte could not get the authorities to help it because it was not punishable. The perpetrator had not done so to get money out of the girls, and only there will be a criminal offense. It goes without saying that it was an intrusive thing for Malte, and it is also for others who are exposed to something similar. The criminalisation of this, which we make possible by means of the legislative proposal, is first and foremost important because it gives the victims legal certainty that they do not have today. I am glad that with this bill we are helping to open up a wider debate on the backside of the growing digitalisation of society. We communicate much more through the digital media than ever before. This is good in many ways because it makes it easier to seek information, be in contact and share the messages we have at heart with each other. But digitalisation also has shadow pages, which are about abuse. We have a responsibility to constantly adapt legislation to the society in which we live. We do that today, when we come to some of the Danes who are afraid of stealing their identity on the web. by the Danes in a meeting. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120122241	Thank you. There are no comments. And since the Radical Left is covered by the Social Democracy, we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120122301	Thank you. I know how much resistance there is over in the Ministry of Justice every time we want to change the penal code. And in part I can understand it because the penal code is a simple and easy-to-read law, which is manageable to find around in the vast majority of people. At the same time, however, we have also seen several times over the last few years that the new digital reality, which we live in, which is not so new anymore, brings challenges and, in other words, new forms of crime which make it necessary to change our otherwise excellent criminal law. Although there are plenty of good things about digitalisation, unfortunately we often see how ugly it can be. I am thinking of digital violations, digital threats, online stalking and monitoring, which are just some of the things where we need to just give our penal code an update to the digital reality. That is why I think it is very good that today, and by a large majority, I can hear that we are getting rid of online identity theft. Because even if it is one of the areas in which it can be argued that it is already 90%. Criminalized, they're the last 10%. At least as important. Identity theft is often linked to another crime; it can for example: be fraud, theft or fraud. However, with the digital reality in which we live, we have seen that identity theft also sometimes happens without any other crime. But that is why the identity theft is still very damaging to the person it is suffering, and that is why it should be criminalised, as we are doing today. There are several who have mentioned this documentary, which has been shown on DR with a young man named Malte, who has been subjected to an identity theft where his name and image have been used to have contact with several hundred young women. This has been devastating for young women, and it has been particularly devastating for Malte. It is precisely in his case that there was abuse which does not fall within the provisions of the criminal code today, and that is why it needs to be updated. For Malte's example, unfortunately, is not the only thing that exists. Identity theft causes mental suffering, it is stressful, and it is extremely uncomfortable and extremely unpleasant, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned. I can see, when I read in the hearings, that there is some concern that the wording is not precise enough and that some people are therefore concerned that doubts may arise as to what we really want to criminalise. However, I think that the debate we have had in here today has become fairly clear. And I also hope that the rest of Parliament's parties will help to clarify this in committee so that there is no doubt. If that is not possible, I would urge the Minister of Justice to write into the proposal that in two or three years' time we can always discuss it and send a report to the Committee on Legal Affairs on how this criminalisation is going and whether there are any problems, whether there is something we have not been aware of, whether there is something we have done either too tight or too lax in reality. So I would really like to suggest that we write into the proposal, that there is some sort of evaluation, not a sunset clause, but the fact that we like to shake hands with each other that in two or three years we will take this up again and evaluate it: if it has worked as intended, have we achieved what we would like with this bill? I don't imagine there's a difference of opinion about that. It does not seem so controversial at first, but you never know when it comes to changes in the criminal code. Enhedslisten can warmly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120122732	Thank you. There are no comments. Then we move on to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120122755	Thank you for the floor to the President and thank you to the previous rapporteurs. Many wise things have been said about the proposal that we are discussing today, and I will not repeat the whole content. The fact that digitalisation during the decommissioning of Denmark makes our working life and communication more effective is clear to everyone. At least it was. Our digital working life, social media, etc. has led to a wide range of new opportunities, but also a number of challenges, including: identity abuse. Identity theft is one of the most cross-border things to be experienced. Seeing your photos and name and sometimes friends and family appear in social forums that you are not part of or aware of is a great mental strain, and it can take a huge amount of time to break up identity theft, which is why, unfortunately, it can also last for a long time. As mentioned earlier, the abuse of identity today is not criminalised in Danish law, and the law has simply not been followed over time, but this law is now being corrected. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120122905	Thank you. As there are no more rapporteurs present from the other parties, it is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120122925	Thank you for the only positive comments from Parliament's parties all around. I'm not gonna make it far. I think that both Mrs Liselott Blixt and Mrs Rosa Lund said what is the entrance to this, namely that as digital reality develops and social media develops, we need to keep up. We have provisions that can be used, but not enough. We have the rules on fraud in the criminal code, we have the rules on forgery, we have the rules that if you take pictures of private matters, it can also be punished, etc. Then we have the Data Protection Act, which also criminalises, and we have the Marketing Act, but none of it hits this identity theft; some have described some of the situations that there have been. That is why there is a need to say that when reality develops, we must, of course, be able to keep up politically. There is work going on on different fronts on how to ensure that all the good that we have out of the new digital reality and all the good that we have from the social media can be preserved, while all the pain that is also coming can be contained as well as possible. And this is not something that solves the problems definitively, but it is an important step in relation to some problems that have been identified in reality, and that is why I am also pleased that all the parliamentary parties support the proposal as it stands. Mrs Lund then raised the question of whether the legislative proposal does not have a disproportionate impact, and to that I would say that some conditions have been introduced to ensure that this is not the case. First of all, there must be unjustified use, which means that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we will have the right to vote in local elections. If we have given our consent, of course we do not have unjustified use. Another requirement is that there should be a requirement of incoherence. So there has been such an attempt to set up a framework, but I think, in fact, also, that it may be sensible to write in a provision that we evaluate this after some time; so I think we should just take that with us in committee and deal with it in that way. However, thank you very much for the broad support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120123153	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220120123204	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 21 January 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
