ParlaMint-DK_20220602101501	The meeting is open. I would like to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber. We start with memoirs for Svend Jakobsen, and we particularly welcome Svend Jakobsen's family. It is with sorrow that the Danish Parliament has been informed that former Minister and Chairman of the Danish Parliament, Svend Aage Jakobsen (S), died on Saturday 28 May 2022. Our thoughts and compassion go to Svend Jakobsen's family and close acquaintances. Svend Jakobsen was born on November 1, 1935 in a modest rural family in Vendsyssel. He couldn't afford to go to real school, so he left school at the age of 14. After working in agriculture for a few years he came to learn as a commission in the local farms. Already as a young man, Svend Jakobsen was interested in social relations, but it was while he worked at the head office of the FDB in Albertslund that he found his political position in the Social Democracy. As far back as 1971 Svend Jakobsen was elected to the Folketing for the first time. Two years later he became a short-term minister of housing in Anker Jørgensen's first ministry. From 1973 to 1981 he held various ministerial posts, and every time Anker Jørgensen formed a new government, Svend Jakobsen was invited for tasks with ever greater responsibility. He was pragmatic and reliable, and he knew his material. In addition to the Minister for Housing, Svend Jakobsen managed to be Minister for Taxation, Fisheries and Finance. The trusted tasks were solved without anyone being able to put a finger on his work. And then Svend Jakobsen was known for an eminent memory. On 22 December 1981 he was elected President of the Folketing. On that occasion he called the day the happiest day of my life as a politician. Until 1989 he was responsible, as President of Parliament, for the legislative work to be carried out as described in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. But it must be said that it has not been without challenges. It was during those years when Mogen Glistrup and Preben Møller Hansen were known for very bram-free statements that often broke with tact and tone in the Assembly Hall. I think everyone agreed that Svend Jakobsen handled the episodes of the unruly language from the platform with a mixture of authority and sense of situation. Svend Jakobsen left active policy in 1989 first to become director of the Danish savings fund association and after a merger managing director of the Finance Council from 1990 to 1994. For Svend Jakobsen it was always the case that was at the centre. He had a very quiet background, he let the results speak for himself and would like to underplay his own meaning in order to achieve the final result. When he was 75 years old, a reporter asked if there was no book of memoirs coming. It was clearly rejected with a crunchy remark that several other biographies are characterized by a self-promotion that does not correspond to what I know of the individual's performance. ▪ And perhaps the note contains the key to understanding the virtues on which Svend Jakobsen built his political action: secularity, thoroughness, modesty, thoughtfulness, and not least diligence. The same qualities made Svend Jakobsen widely respected among both political friends and opponents. I ask you to rise up so that we may honor Svend Jakobsen's memory. Glory be to Svend Jakobsen's memory!
ParlaMint-DK_20220602101959	Then we move on to today's assignments. The Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a law on the regulation of social media. L 146). Does anyone wish to include this bill? As this is not the case, the draft law has lapsed. Members of the Folketing Pernille Skipper (EL) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: the motion for a resolution on the parliamentary vote to reject Polish abortion legislation unequivocally. B100. Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. Members of the Danish Parliament Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF) and Trine Torp (SF) have informed me that they want to take back questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly and the Minister for Education about children in vulnerable positions in daily offers. F 40). The question has now been dropped. Members of the Danish Parliament Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and René Christensen (DF) have informed me that they want to take back questions to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply about the energy crisis and the green transition. F 45). The question entered as item 31 of the agenda has now been dropped and deleted from the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102106	The item listed as No. 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. And if no one objects, I consider the consent given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102117	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 88 by Rasmus Horn Langhoff (S) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 36 (S and SF), against 59 (V, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No The V 88 is rejected. The vote shall then be taken on the proposal for adoption No. V 87 by Liselott Blixt (UFG), Martin Geertsen (V), Per Larsen (KF), Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Susanne Zimmer (FG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (V, KF, DF, NB, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 87 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 89 by Stinus Lindgreen (RV) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (RV and LA), against voting 85 (S, V, SF, EL, KF, DF, NB, FG, ALT, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 89 is rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 90 of Peder Hvelplund (EL), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 15 (EL, DF, FG and ALT), against 82 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No The V 90 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102322	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 91 by Kasper Roug (S), Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V), Karsten Hønge (SF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Christian Juhl (EL), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Søren Espersen (DF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam (SIU), Edmund Joensen (SP) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 96 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 91 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102441	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102457	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 88 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), against 9 (EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102519	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102533	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 98 votes (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102553	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102607	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 98 votes (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against 0 abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102627	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102643	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 44 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against 53 (S, SF, RV, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102705	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102724	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 5 (NB, FG, ALT and 1 (LA) (by mistake)), against voting 85 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, DF, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 7 (EL). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102749	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? I think so, sir. Bent Bøgsted, outside the groups, does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602102818	Thank you for that, President. The reason why I am now on the floor is that I made a mistake myself when the report was submitted, and it must then be corrected before we have to vote on it. For the motion for a resolution that has been tabled here is aimed at abolishing the set-off on account of a partner's income from work in a social pension and the abolition of the offsetting of his own income from work in the basic amount and pension supplements of the national pension, and it is true that in one of the agreements which I and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl of the Danish People's Party was involved with the Minister for Employment when we made the proposal to stop the offsetting of income from work in pensions, through the fact that we also had to have a bill that labour income should also not be offset against own pension. After all, we were given an undertaking from the Minister for Employment that there would be a bill in the autumn. That is what the Minister has promised and that is what this proposal is about. Then, by mistake, we were told that no vote should be taken, but we are in favour of removing that set-off, of course we will do so when I myself have taken part in it. So we have in our small group of geese and gass consisting of myself, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Mrs Lise Bech, Mrs Liselott Blixt, Mrs Marie Krarup and Mrs Karina Adsbøl talked about the fact that we are, of course, standing by to have that set-off removed, and I would therefore like to say here that we are changing it to a yellow vote, precisely because we have been given an undertaking that there will be that bill in the autumn. I would just like to say that if he does not make that amendment in the autumn, the Minister will have some serious problems, because he has promised loud and holy that it will come, and that is part of the agreement on the set-off, and I believe, of course, that the Minister stands by what he himself has agreed to. So our small group of non-attached Members are voting yellow on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103038	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103044	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For voting 43 (V, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), against voting 51 (S, SF, RV and DF), abstention 3 (Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103112	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103129	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, KF, NB and LA) voted against 57 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and Bent Bøgsted (UFG)), abstention 6 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103150	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103212	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103232	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103246	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten, does.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103307	Yes, thank you very much. The Enhedslisten has tabled two amendments aimed at making the law manageable with the existing IT programmes. When it is voted down here in a moment, the majority of the Danish Parliament has assumed responsibility for administrative chaos in the coffers, and I shall refrain from doing so any more. But the last amendment is Amendment No. I would like to say something more about this, because it is a very substantive matter. I would say that something inappropriate is happening here, which I think most people will really agree with. All parties say in all contexts that it is desirable that everyone who can be encouraged to take adult apprentice training and thus move from unskilled to skilled. In order to promote this, employers are given a subsidy because they are sure that there will be some adult learning places available. But just such a grant helps to create conditions for adult apprentices who come out of the trained, skilled adults so that they are brought into a situation where they get some allowance that you can barely live on when you are an adult in different situations, as it is intended. Our proposal is to exclude the subsidy granted to companies for having an adult apprentice, for the provision of supported work, thus allowing adult apprentices to use the hours they have in their adult learning time to receive an allowance rate corresponding to the salary they have received in that period. I think that the vast majority of people in this Chamber think that is very sensible, because why do you give subsidies to employers, but punish the apprentice who then does so. For there will be several people who will find it very difficult to live on the daily allowance and under the conditions under which the benefit rules are now introduced, such as: This means that the benefit period is reduced by half for those who are being trained. In addition, if anyone were to come up with an economic argument that it would be inappropriate for them and for those reasons, I would just like to remind you that the Economic Council came up with their report of wise men the day before yesterday, where they clearly indicated that there was no evidence of exactly the concerns that have been about how much was of entry and departure in relation to unemployment with the way it is calculated. In other words, it has been questioned whether the calculator is actually raining correctly. I believe that many have been aware of this fact. With these two arguments, I would suggest that we send the proposal back to committee so that we can have an extra talk about whether this amendment No. Thirteen may be re-examined by the Committee. That is why I would appeal for the proposal to go back to committee between the second and third readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103612	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103617	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 adopted by the committee on Amendments Nos 1 and 2. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 4 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (ALT) and a vote can be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of 9 (EL, FG and ALT), against 87 (S, V, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6 Acting by a majority? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 outside the report Mrs Jette Gottlieb (EL), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 18 (SF, EL, FG and ALT), against 78 (S, V, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (EL) joined by a minority (ALT) and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 18 (SF, EL, FG and ALT), against 79 (S, V, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 10 and 11 adopted by a majority or on Amendments Nos 10 and 11. 12 member of the Committee? It's agreed. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103807	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103822	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103837	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103852	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103907	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103924	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103938	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602103950	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF and NB) on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 1 on Amendment No. 2 and 3 adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB) on Amendment No 2. 4-9, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF and NB) or on Amendment No 4. 10 and 11, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104014	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104023	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104039	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104103	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104122	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104137	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104149	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 outside the report by Pernille Vermund (NB). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (DF, NB, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against voting 84 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104223	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104245	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104307	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104335	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104348	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104406	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104419	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104432	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104453	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority, that the draft law is divided into three legislative proposals? Draft law amending the law on foreigners. B. Draft law amending the law on foreigners and the law on Danish education for adult foreigners etc. C. Draft law amending the Aliens Act, the Return Travel Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment, etc. The division of the bill into three legislative proposals is hereby adopted. We shall then vote on the proposal for a directive referred to in A. 2 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. We shall then vote on the proposal for a directive referred to in B. 4-11, member of the Committee? They are adopted. We shall then vote on the legislative proposal referred to in C. 12 and 13, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104540	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104555	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 3 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration as adopted. It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Marie Krarup (UFG), joined by a minority (DF and NB) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (DF, NB, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against voting 85 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 4 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration as adopted. It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 by Marie Krarup (UFG), joined by a minority (DF and NB), and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 11 (DF, NB, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against voting 86 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 5-9 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration as adopted. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104847	The debate is open. Mrs. Marie Gudme, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602104912	Thank you. When Denmark's surrounding area is in flames, we as a country have a special responsibility, and it has Denmark against the many thousands of displaced Ukrainians who have fled Putin's aggression and from the war in Ukraine. There is, of course, broad support for this in the Folketing. A broad majority of the Folketing concluded an agreement at the beginning of March on a special law for Ukrainian displaced persons. The agreement means, among other things, that the Ukrainians who come to Denmark can have a safe day-to-day life and the opportunity to attend day-to-day institutions, school and work, but also means that the pressure on our welfare institutions is increasing as more children and adults from Ukraine come to the country. There is therefore a need to ensure more welfare staff who can take care of the Ukrainians who come to Denmark. In order to meet the need for more welfare workers, a broad circle of parties in the Folketing concluded an agreement on 9 May to reward those who make themselves available and take an extra turn in the welfare sector to contribute and help Ukrainian refugees. This means, in concrete terms, that pensioners and beneficiaries of early retirement, such as: is employed at a school or in a kindergarten who is responsible for Ukrainians with a residence permit under the special law for Ukrainian refugees, does not have to be counted against social pension or early retirement. In other words, we are rewarding pensioners and pensioners who give a helping hand in an extraordinary situation. The legislative proposal we are going to deal with here is the implementation of the agreement we reached at the beginning of May. I will briefly outline the elements of the draft law. The draft law proposes to remove the set-off in pension for survivors on account of the additional income of their own or their spouse or their spouse. It will be a condition to be able, apart from the income, to obtain additional or overtime or that the employment has started on 17 March 2022 or later at a place of work in the welfare sector, i.e.: in the area of day-care, school, social and health care and the elderly, which carry out tasks relating to persons with a residence permit under the special law. The scheme is temporary and will run until 1 January 2023 and apply to revenue paid and taxed during the period from 1 April 2022 to 31 December 2022. In addition, the draft law also provides for an amendment to a deadline for leaving Ukraine by granting a residence permit. The special law has ensured a very special and temporary basis of residence for displaced Ukrainians, so that they have the best possible framework for coming quickly and being able to continue their lives in Denmark and contribute to society. However, it has become apparent that there are people who, because of holidays or other similar short stays abroad, did not stay in the country when the war broke out on 24 February and thus did not fulfil the objective conditions of the special law. Therefore, the deadline for leaving Ukraine should not be so severe that Ukrainian nationals who have been granted the status of refugees from Ukraine cannot be granted a residence permit if they were on holiday or had a short stay abroad when the war broke out. That is why it is proposed to move the deadline for leaving Ukraine three weeks. This means that the new deadline will instead be 1 February 2022. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we can support both elements of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602105320	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur on the list, sir. Hans Andersen, isn't here. Then it's gotta be sir. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602105344	When a tyrannical leader like Putin threatens his neighbours, we must welcome the refugees it throws off with open arms in Denmark. And we have to be on our toes to protect these people who, as new people on the Danish labour market, will often be both vulnerable and vulnerable. After all, we have already seen advertisements from cynical intermediaries trying to sell labour far below the wages we have in Denmark. It is, of course, primarily a task for the trade union movement to be present in the workplace, so that you can have both agreements and take care of the interests of these people, whom you can understand can feel pressured or maybe sometimes lured to take some jobs that are, after all, better than where they come from, but which are • if you take them in Denmark • a contribution to screwing down our pay and working conditions. Social dumping is, of course, a phenomenon that comes in the guises and versions of the world, and wherever it puts its head forward, it must be fought in the ground, and it must be removed, through the fact that we have a strong trade union movement that can defend the Danish wage and working conditions, but I can be in doubt whether that is actually enough in this situation. I really think we should agree that this is an area we keep under close supervision if it turns out that many of the Ukrainians will apparently seek employment in occupations where they are very badly organised and very badly covered by agreements ■ precisely the service industry, hotels, agriculture and the areas where you are poorly organized. Therefore, there will typically also be fewer trade union representatives and shop stewards who can get a first-hand impression of the conditions under which Ukrainian refugees will work. And we are in this particular situation that we will keep it under close supervision, but we will also say that we will then be prepared to intervene and say: then we will have to make a special effort on the part of the state. We already have a coordinated effort from the police, the tax authorities and the Labour Inspectorate, so that we can agree that this is an area that we are particularly watching to ensure that, as the agreement also states, the Ukrainian refugees coming to Denmark must work under the usual pay and working conditions for Danish employees. The second part of the bill, which is of course about an area that we have discussed many times and which is important for SF, namely that we remove the set-off, is something that will be a very good idea in a number of areas at all, but here it is obviously a good idea. When, in some particular industries in Denmark, we have a shortage of labour, we should not at the same time apply trip threads to those people who actually want to step in and take some of the available jobs. So there is support for the SF bill, but especially with the remarks that we need to keep the working conditions and wage conditions of Ukrainian refugees very close under observation, and if we cannot expect the trade union movement in these particular industries to be able to defend the wage and working conditions, we must intervene on the part of the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602105714	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602105731	Thank you very much, President. We all know that the situation in Ukraine is quite terrible, and here in the Folketing we also agree that we should welcome the refugees who find their way to Denmark very well. And part of welcoming refugees who find their way to Denmark is to give children and young people a good reception in Danish society, in schools and in institutions. In Denmark, we now have an economic situation calling for more labour, which is why we in the Radical Left are glad that more people can take an extra job and especially in relation to helping some of the children and young people who are in a terrible situation qua the war in Ukraine. And that is why, politically speaking, it makes sense to remove the set-off for old-age pensioners, early retirement pensioners, senior pensioners and, as such, pensioners in any other context, but especially in this context, where extra tasks have arisen in the Danish labour market to help Ukrainian refugee children get a good and safe start. So in the Radical Left, we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602105904	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602105915	Thank you. After all, the draft law is primarily about the offsetting of people working to ensure better conditions for Ukrainian refugees, and the Enhedslisten can fully endorse this. What we can see can be a problem is that it is very difficult to check whether the refugees who then have the opportunity to work have working conditions which correspond to the Danish working conditions. We would have liked to have had that in the legislative texts that have been drawn up on this subject. It did not come to that, but in any case it is important that we have an opportunity to check that it is done properly. One of the simple ways in which it could be done was that, when the work permit was distributed to those concerned, it was possible for them to report back to SIRI as to where they came to work, so that there was a close link between the knowledge of where the people work and the allocation of a work permit required. And that would be a good way to do it. This may mean that there may be a little extra labour that should not be set off against a national pension or early retirement pension or the like, and then you will get a knowledge of where the work is going and how to control working conditions. In the first place, of course, it is the Labour Inspectorate and to a certain extent also the trade union movement and others who have the opportunity to ensure that it remains on Danish pay and working conditions. In addition, there is also a proposal in the law and there is no link with the second • which is about changing the deadline for when you are a Ukrainian refugee, i.e. when you have escaped from Ukraine, and how to get under the law. I am not in favour of mixing things that have nothing to do with each other into the same law, but I can live with us getting it done in this case. It was an emergency, and most of it is also urgent legislation, so we live with it. So Enhedslisten can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602110109	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602110115	Thank you very much. After all, the bill here is about ensuring that there is no set-off in social pensions and early retirement in jobs that carry out tasks with displaced persons from Ukraine, and changing the deadline for leaving Ukraine by granting a residence permit. As a starting point and as the most natural in the world, we are, of course, very positive about this proposal. There is nothing we would rather than go an extra mile to ensure good conditions in Denmark for all those who at this time have unfortunately been driven out of Ukraine. However, we have a few questions in relation to the bill. This is, of course, one which the Minister will probably be able to clarify quickly and without major sword strikes and which, I hope, can be clearly rejected. It's about the rules in section 28 of the bill. 7, authorising the Minister to lay down detailed rules for the scheme, including which undertakings are covered by the scheme and under what conditions. Here I have to ask the Minister what ideas, considerations and guidelines he intends to take as the basis for the estimate that the Minister can make. Which companies, in the Minister's view, will clearly be covered by the scheme, and when will it be appropriate to consider setting foot down? I ask because during corona we saw companies that could not be compensated for conflicts, and we did not need to correct the bakery for blackmailing and judging the minister solely on the basis of the views and principles that were in that case. I would therefore ask the Minister to inform the Danish Parliament of the point of reference he intends to follow when assessing which companies may be covered by the scheme. It is no secret that I am also asking because, in several areas, this government has taken a determined stand against free elections. We have seen this most recently in the field of high school, where free secondary school elections can be trampled underfoot. Of course, in the Conservative People's Party, we are very concerned about guaranteeing the right of citizens and companies to choose for themselves. This is also true in the labour market, where we fully support the right of employees to freely choose a trade union and the right of employers to choose freely which agreement, if any, should apply in the company. I would therefore like to ask the Minister directly whether he can and will reject the provisions of paragraph 1. 7 can be applied to undertakings which have chosen to follow an agreement which is not the most widespread in the labour market. It could, for example, be done. be an undertaking which follows an agreement not necessarily concluded by the most representative parties in the current field. Do they risk being affected by stricter requirements when the Minister is required to carry out the discretion of § 28 (1)? Seven, add up? In concrete terms, it could be a company which follows an agreement concluded with, for example, Krifa, the Trade Union House or the Employers' Association KA, which is not part of the DA community? Will this one element in itself, i.e. the question of which agreement is being followed on companies, be sufficient for the Minister to put his foot down and cut companies off from the scheme? It seems to me that a clear and simple answer can be given to that question and, provided that the Minister can answer a clear 'no', which he probably can, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602110422	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602110444	Thank you for that, President. The proposal here, of course, can be supported by the Danish People's Party and, as the previous rapporteurs have also said, what it is all about is that folk, senior and early retirement workers will not be set off if they make their labour available. We think this is timely care, that is to say, that we have decided this, because when we agreed on it, we should also remember, we did so in a context of expecting more than 100,000 people to come to Denmark, and many of them we expected to be children too, and if we had to deal with all those children, it was also important to get some labour so that we could say that the normal range did not come to pay a high price for it. And you just have to say that when you looked at the FOA, for example, it was lightning fast that a lot of these people who had left the labour market made their workforce available. So thank you so much. We must then say whether it is good or bad, I should not be able to estimate that there has not yet been so much need for it. There has not been a great deal of children or young people, and in relation to our welfare societies we have been able to handle the tasks that we have faced. What I think is important and, of course, as several people have also said, is who it is that has to be part of this. And it is not so much about the group of workers, but it is more about companies and institutions, and it is of course important for us to say: whether it is a private day-care institution or a municipal day-care institution is not what matters. What is crucial here is that, if there is enormous pressure, we can maintain a good and sensible level of service with the labour available. So we say 'yes' to the proposal, but I would also like to thank all the citizens who have been outside the labour market and who have now made their workforce available in relation to the situation we are in. So these are good proposals which we can of course support from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602110632	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602110642	Thank you for that and thank you for being flexible when I did not arrive when it was my turn in the rapporteur's line. I shall endeavour not to do so again. And thank you for the other rapporteurs' speeches. We in the Left share the view that there was a need here for us to act quickly, that we were flexible and that together we found a small light in an otherwise gloomy time with regard to the war in Europe. We have certainly followed up on the warmth that the Ukrainian refugees have met when they have been received here in Denmark. With this bill, it builds on it. We stand together and contribute here together to ensuring that, in relation to the people who want to make an extra effort, there are no more who are hit by a totally unacceptable high set-off. That's why the Left is backing this bill. In concrete terms, this means that people on social pensions and early retirement will not be set off against them as a result of helping children in day care institutions, both private and public. I look forward to that becoming reality out there. And then it is true that not as many Ukrainian refugees have arrived as we expected in the first place, but that does not change the fact that this bill is relevant and concrete and can make a difference out there in everyday life. At the same time, this bill also contains a small change in relation to ensuring that the Ukrainians who were abroad in relation to Ukraine shortly before the Russian invasion are now also included in the special law, because of course we must help all Ukrainians who come to the country as refugees, including those who were not just in Ukraine on 24 February when Russia invaded the country. So the Left can back up the bill as it stands. We also take note of the comments made by the Conservative rapporteur, and we shall of course have to make that clear in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602110927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602110943	I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their comments on this draft law, and also thank you for the goodwill that has been shown in the Folketing for a quick reading. It is important to me and to the entire government that the many thousands of displaced persons from Ukraine are welcomed. They must have a safe everyday life with the possibility of caring, school and jobs as soon as possible. The bill here gives pensioners, their spouses and cohabitants, and also beneficiaries of early retirement, an additional incentive to help welcome the many displaced persons. With the bill, we ensure that those who give an extra hand in this extraordinary situation are not set off in their pension or early retirement. The bill implements the broad political agreement that the government has concluded with the Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative, the Danish People's Party, the New Civil, the Alternative, the Christian Democrats and also Bent Bøgsted on behalf of the Working Community of Non-attached Members. And I am very pleased that we have been able to reach such a broad agreement with support across the Parliamentary Chamber. Specifically, the proposal means that additional income from public and private welfare sectors should not lead to a set-off in public pension, senior pension, early retirement or early retirement. The individual pensioner or beneficiary of early retirement does not need to carry out his/her own tasks directly with displaced persons from Ukraine. Instead, the pensioner, spouse or beneficiary must work at a workplace with tasks related to displaced persons from Ukraine. The retired educator returning to the labour market therefore does not need to take care of children from Ukraine himself in order to be exempted from set-off; instead, the daycare institution concerned must have enrolled children from Ukraine or engage in resource cooperation with an institution with Ukrainian children. This is in contrast to the Corona scheme where the additional income should be directly related to the handling of the pandemic. I hope that this change will make the scheme easier to use for both pensioners and pensioners, but also for their employers. In addition, it is proposed to adapt the deadline for leaving Ukraine in the Special Law for Ukrainians from 24 February to 1 February 2022. The purpose of the change is for persons such as: has been on a shorter holiday or other short stay abroad also covered by the special law. It is the government's view that one should not get caught and be denied a residence permit simply because one happens to have been on holiday or had another short stay abroad right up to the Russian invasion in Ukraine. Finally, I would like to thank the parties for the good treatment of the draft law and I look forward to the committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602111226	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602111342	I would point out that any proposals for adoption will not be put to the vote until Tuesday, 7 June. Then that is the reason for the question, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left, who brings it to me and it's here from the platform, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602111404	Well, thank you for the floor. It is, of course, such a tradition that we are in the process of, so the energy rapporteurs of all the parties in the Folketing have traditionally chosen to invite the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to a question debate in connection with the annual energy and supply policy statement. I would like to thank the Minister for running today and we look forward to the debate. That's all I'm gonna say in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602111436	That was also sufficient. Thank you so much. This means that we are now getting the response from the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602111447	Thank you. Let me begin by thanking the authors of the question. This is a serious time in Europe. There is war in Ukraine and this has underlined the importance of Denmark and Europe becoming independent of Russian gas. We can create that independence by accelerating the green transition, replacing fossil fuels with sustainable energy sources; we can create a more green Europe and also a safer Europe. For this reason, it is vital that we continue to work unceasingly against a more green and supply-proof Denmark and Europe. We must build on the many steps in the right direction that we took together in 2021 through the many political agreements in the field of energy and supply that we made. The reason for today's debate is the energy and supply policy statement which is going through last year's energy and supply policy developments. And it shows 2021 was a really good year. The report shows several positive results. Among other things: Denmark and Scandinavia's largest offshore wind farm were inaugurated with a capacity of 604 MW corresponding to the annual consumption of 600,000 households. In addition, it shows that Denmark has a high security of electricity supply with a stable supply 99.99 per cent. of the time. The district heating sector is increasingly being supplied with renewable energy and electrification is being further boosted. All are the important markers for where we want the Danish supply to go. Although we have come a long way in 2021, there is a need to speed up. Thus 2021 was also the year when we first saw signs of rising energy prices. At the same time, the crisis in Ukraine has shown how vulnerable we are when we rely on energy supply from Russia. We therefore have a task in ensuring that Denmark is better equipped against energy crises in the future. That was the reason for the government's proposal • Denmark can more II •. With the initiative, we are speeding up the phasing out of natural gas, both in industry, primarily through the green tax reform, and in households, where plans are to be made for the roll-out of district heating. At the same time, we are making significant changes to our ambitions in relation to the expansion of renewable energy sources, among others. with the Esbjerg Declaration, which Denmark signed on 18 May. It is a crucial agreement that will boost the development of offshore winds in the North Sea in order to ensure a climate-neutral Europe. Fortunately, Denmark is in a unique position. We are already in the process of an ambitious green transition. We have the green solutions that the rest of the world also wants. We have natural gas resources in the North Sea which, in the short term, can help to displace Russian gas. And with Denmark we can speed up the green transition with e.g.. more biogas and significantly more green current. We will present Danish homeowners with a plan so that they each know what the green transition in their local area will look like. Will there be district heating, or is it heat pumps that we should instead invest in? We want to move forward and increase the production of biogas while also advancing gas production for parts of the North Sea. The phasing-out of oil and gas pine by citizens and companies must be subject to a turbo charge. At the same time, the government has a goal that the Danish gas consumption should be 100%. Green in 2030 • what's left of it. In order to achieve our ambition to phase out gas, it is essential that we ensure green power for the Danes at sea and on land. We must reap the full sea wind potential in Denmark. The 35 GW sea winds that are promised in Denmark can be more than II° are 15 times as much as we have today, and this is also roughly equivalent to what we saw at global level in 2020. With the Esbjerg Declaration, we have given even more impetus to the expansion of sea winds since Denmark can more II. We are now taking a major green step towards a freer Denmark and Europe in cooperation with Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands. Together, we will build 65 GW by 2030 and 150 GW by 2050, while ensuring the necessary energy infrastructure. It is a tenfold increase in capacity in the North Sea and it is enough to supply electricity to about 230 million households. Denmark is a small country, but we have a great potential for renewable energy, not only in the North Sea, but also on land. Therefore, Denmark shall quadruple the total production of solar energy and energy from landwind towards 2030. And then we need to be better at making casework faster and finding balances in environmental regulation. The goal is that by 2030 Denmark is a net exporter of green energy. So we must not just create the green energy needed to convert Denmark and electrify our own society; we must also help the rest of Europe to do the same. With the war in Ukraine, it is quite clear that we must be independent of Russian gas, both for our safety and for the sake of climate. The government is concerned to continue to develop renewable energy and to use energy efficiently and flexibly. It must make Denmark and Europe more secure. It is a work that is in full swing and I look forward to continuing cooperation with the parties of the Folketing on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112048	Thank you. Now there is one brief comment for the rapporteurs who would like it, and I will take them in the order in which they have signed up. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112101	Thank you. I think it is very good that there is a focus on the development of renewable energy, which is important, and we are looking forward to the negotiations that we hope will soon come. I noted that the government was going to make a move in May, but that was not achieved, but I look forward to the negotiations where we have to quadruple renewable energy production by 2030. In fact, I think that these energy savings and energy efficiency improvements, the electrification, where we use energy, are getting too little focus. There is too little focus on reducing the energy we use at the same time, which is too little focus on getting to consume less in a smarter way, so that we control our energy consumption. Does the Minister agree that this is not enough in the discussions we have, but it will be more important that if you can build some really large wind turbines out at sea, there is more focus on it, while the nearest thing about saving energy does not get enough space?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112205	Yeah, I can actually follow that a long way along the way. We are really trying to focus on this, not least through the negotiating position we have in the European Union, where we are working for the EU's target to be raised to a 40% binding target for energy efficiency, a clear increase in both the Danish position, of course, but also of the pressure being put on the European Union in general. In relation to energy efficiency and what we are doing in Denmark in concrete terms, it is clear that the great proposal for a green tax reform that we have just presented, which will, of course, include Danish industry in a way that is unprecedented, will lead to a very high level of energy efficiency, and it is not just a question of bringing in the flow, the energy, into green; it is also, in particular, a question of saving energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112310	Thank you. Since there is only one question, please, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen to press again for our way of managing it. Thank you. The next one is sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112320	Thank you and thank you for your statement. I would like to continue a little along this path of saving energy, and there the Climate Citizen thing tells us that if you in the Danish public building stock, in other words in all the public buildings, I think it is 43 million. m2 public buildings, raised two levels of energy, could one save almost 300,000 tonnes of CO2 These are the figures that are starting to get interesting, because one shouldn't do it very many years, then it starts to become the millions in which we count, in our CO2 What does the minister think about that? Is this something that is focused, is it something that we need to get going, what are the plans there and what initiatives could come?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112410	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112412	Yes, it is certainly a great potential, and fortunately we have also set a lot of things in motion together here in the Danish Parliament. We have set up a greater billions to renovate and replace fossil fuels, i.e. oil and gas pine, with alternatives, and it is clear that fortunately what is also happening out there in many municipalities, where energy is being refurbished, so that many of the municipal buildings, which today do not have the same standard, have the same standard as new buildings in the state, also have a very high effect, and of course we support that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112452	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112456	Thank you. And thank you for your statement. After all, earlier this year the Climate Council failed the government's climate action, because no concrete targets were identified for achieving the reduction targets by 2025 and 2030. So how will the government ensure this, and what further steps will it take to achieve the objectives? And is 70-percent reduction really enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112521	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112522	Yes, but the Climate Council itself has taken a strong stand against the way in which they produce their report that they should have dumped someone. That is not their job, nor is it what they have done. What they have pointed out is that in some places further efforts are needed, including, for example: A CO2 And there we have just presented and are negotiating a CO2 So we are quite well on our way to achieving the 70-percent objective. Yesterday Yale University and Columbia University published a report that they make every two years, measuring on a wide range of scientific parameters what the countries of the world are doing to meet the climate commitments that are. And it turns out that unfortunately only four countries seem to live up to the Paris agreement on climate neutrality. And according to the two universities Denmark is the country that is doing the best it can. This does not mean that we do not have a lot of things that we still have to do, but that means that, compared to all the other countries in the world, we are doing quite well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112628	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112630	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Minister for his statement. It is not because nothing is happening because a great deal is actually happening. But if you sat there and listened, and if you follow a little, it is so that no matter what happens, it is ambitious. It is certainly one of those adjectives that is being used very much at the moment. But what I really want to ask the Minister is that since so much is happening, the change has to be quick, and it has to be ambitious, does it not go beyond this part of making it work? I mean, if we just take a point like walking over to an electric car, I think a lot of people are standing out there now looking at an electric car with a gas price that is hugely high and a diesel price that is high and wonders: is it now that you have to take the step? But there we still have the challenge that the infrastructure is not included. Where I come from, I live in the province... you can set up an electric charger at home in your carport, but if you live in a floor property inside the larger cities, it's actually really hard. We hear about Copenhageners who have to get up at night to drive out and move their car and find a charging station to load it up to use their electric car that they bought. How does the Minister actually view the challenge that we are facing in relation to the infrastructure in order to make all these ambitious agreements work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112734	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112736	It's focused on making our transport greener. And it is clear that the two major challenges that I see it are 1) that enough green power has to be produced, as I addressed it in my speech, and 2) that the electric charger infrastructure must be in order. Fortunately, we have not always been as broad as we have been here, but some of them have set aside quite a large amount of money for it. And fortunately, things are moving fast. What is meant to be the goal is that consumers must always have the assurance that if they choose to buy an electric car, which we hope will be done more, they can be charged both in their daily lives, but also if they have to go out and drive longer stretches. Fortunately, the sale of both electric cars and hybrid cars in Denmark is also going very well, so the agreement that some of the parties in the Danish Parliament made about green road transport, where we used the toll instrument as the very large part of the solution, has proven to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112840	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112841	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. I want to turn to the short perspective. As far as the long-term perspective is concerned, there are very good objectives and so on, but when you talk to them in the marketplace, they have an irritation, a nervousness, an uncertainty about their investment security. And that is why it can be seen that the issue of setting up renewable energy installations, especially on land, has now almost stalled because there is uncertainty about tariffs etc. We have had a long discussion about this. We also have a report for L 53, which says something about how we have to look at how we make this go faster and how we create security. Does the Minister have any initiatives in place to speed up this process?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112934	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602112935	So, we have in Denmark more than II• proposed a quadrupling of the capacity of VE on land. This will require, among other things, that: The author's party also goes away from some of the stick horses that you have had in connection with the planning law, perhaps in connection with the windmill ceiling I do not know how the Left relates to that. But at all, there are things that need to be changed if we're going to do this much faster. It is clear, then, that there is the question of producer tariffs to which I think reference is made here and which is about an agreement which the questioner himself has been involved in concluding, and that is why I also assume that the questioner is in favour of it. My impression is that we are in the process of adapting to market conditions and that the various options that have been on the table in order to be allowed to postpone, etc., would entail a very high procedural risk in relation to the possibility of having to pay back large amounts of money if it were found to be in breach of the state aid rules of the European Union, which the authorities consider there would be an imminent likelihood of.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113037	Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113039	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. I would like to talk about something very specific. It is very expensive to be a Dane right now with the high prices, and I would like to ask whether the Minister is aware of the problem that when some citizens switch away from natural gas, Evida has 18 months to disconnect the gas and can continue to charge payments on account. Preserve, citizens get the money back after 18 months, but that means that many citizens right now are twice as expensive in it. These are the citizens who would like to help themselves to take responsibility for our faster exemption from Russian gas, and they have difficulty in putting down perhaps $40,000-$50,000. for a heat pump or geothermal or other heat. What is it that the Minister thinks we should do here and now in order for citizens to have cheaper energy prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113137	There are many questions in it. One is in relation to the concrete with how to be decoupled etc. As a single consumer, and I think we can address that in the negotiations we are currently engaged in. To the question of what we basically have to do to bring down energy prices, the answer is quite clear: it is about getting as many of the expensive gas as possible and on to alternatives rather than district heating. Of course, district heating should not be based on gas either. But if that is not possible, it is individual heat pumps that will be the answer in most places, but also geothermal. It is clear that it has a little longer perspectives, because it takes a long time to create such a plant, but fortunately we are also well underway there, among other things. because we have made important agreements here in the Folketing that have made it possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113231	Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113233	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the statement. After all, I very much agree with the Minister that we need to make a great and comprehensive effort in society to achieve our climate objectives and to cope with this very large green transition. It is also clear that in such a large task one will sometimes run into some systems that do not play so smoothly together. During the negotiations, I believe that we are frequently opposed by the Ministry of Finance, which tends to say that if you make a change which means that there is less income coming into the Treasury's treasury from the sale of fossil fuels, they must then be financed over on this climate table. It seems that the Ministry of Finance has the idea that fossil fuel revenues can be calculated for all eternity. Would it not be logical for the Ministry of Finance to write off future fossil fuel revenues in line with the climate legislation's assumptions on how we are going to reduce our CO2 would that not be excellent? Because in this way, you would not fight against each other internally. You would actually get a part-play from the Ministry of Finance instead of a counter-play. So you can't get a unified government handling of this question? That would be excellent for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113346	I've heard such an anecdote, and it's probably a myth I'm not so famous in the Greenlandic language but I've heard that the Greenlanders have 100 different words for snow, for snow, and you usually say about finance ministries everywhere in the world that they have 100 different ways of saying no. That is, of course, humorous, because on the bottom line the role of the Ministry of Finance is, of course, that they must ensure that the money is in order, that it is correct, and it is a fact that when we have some taxes that we impose something that we get less from, that is, the fossil, there is also less money in the box. This is an inconvenient truth that we have to deal with, and I think that the Ministry of Finance is right to say that if there is less money in the box, we will have to find out how to get it in. That's one of them. That is why we must look at the possibilities for us to start making money in the future on some of what has cost money in the past. There is Thor Havvindmøllepark a good example, that is to say that we will get a billion euro in subsidies to the Treasury on something we have paid for in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113454	Thank you to the Minister this time. This means that we are now embarking on the rapporteur's line, and first of all it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602113518	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for the energy policy statement. After all, it gives reason to look back a year in Danish politics, and when you do so you do not think that you are looking back a year, but that you are looking back decades, perhaps not in the field of energy policy, but yet because we have come into a situation where the ghost of war is back in Europe and the violent inflation is again looking forward, and it is not healthy for the Danish economy. If we look into what the world looks like compared to a year ago, it can be said that for the ordinary Dane everything from gasoline, electricity, heat, groceries and food has become significantly more expensive. For some it has actually become so that it may be difficult to make it stick together and have to day and road. At the same time, we see that, as a consequence of the closure of natural gas from Russia, large Danish companies are actually now in danger of cutting off gas supply and, if it is the case that some of those companies end up in that situation, they may have to scale down their production. They can end up in a situation where they cannot actually produce. These are issues that we probably hadn't really dreamed of a year ago that we were going to stand in, but that's the reality now. We have to tell ourselves that what has, like this, made things happen and started it here, not only when we look back on the pre-war period, we actually saw energy prices rising, and back in the autumn, before the war in Ukraine, we talked about a calm summer, a cold winter and a high demand for energy after the coronagen opening, causing prices to rise. Even then, we in the Left were at least of the opinion that it was unsustainable and we were also aware that we imported natural gas from Russia in large quantities and that it was a European risk. Now we are at the back of the unfortunate war on European soil and we can see that energy policy and security policy can no longer be separated. Putin's invasion of Ukraine has shown us what happens when we let our energy supply depend on a despot that uses the Russian gas to play with the muscles. That is why we must say that the war in Ukraine has strengthened the need for us to boost the expansion of solar and wind energy so that we can get out of Putin's iron grip. There is no shortage of good arguments for a more green energy supply. Although this has happened against a dull background, it has now become clear to everyone how important it is for us to achieve the aim of the green transformation of our society. We all agree that the future energy supply must be green and renewable, and it must be beneficial to the climate and the economy and to our security. I think that conclusion can be described as positive, even if it is a dark time. I think we should then be aware that in the picture we are working on now, when we are providing renewable energy sources, we must also be aware that we do not become dependent on others. If we look at, for example, solar cells, solar panels are now not produced at all in Europe; they are produced in the Far East. If we look at the supply conditions we have for renewable energy appliances, I would like to call it that, we have the price as a very large and very constant factor that we are looking at very precisely, which means that in other areas too we risk becoming dependent on Eastern European production, which I am thinking of is against our security policy. That is why I think it is important that, in the way we provide renewable energy supplies, we also consider that it is not only the money but also the life cycle impact on the climate that we are looking at and that we also have a security policy aspect in the way we make our supply. It can then be said that in recent years we have made great progress when it comes to energy policy. Large, ambitious agreements have been concluded: an agreement on the capture, storage, transport and use of CO2 for a subsidy scheme to spread the production and use of power-to-x. These are three good examples of agreements that we have concluded together in recent years. I would like to thank the government for its cooperation and commend the government for its fine intentions in the expansion of renewable energy. We saw this most recently with the statement that came in relation to Esbjerg. But there is also, as I said when I asked the question, the joy is shattered, because the greater the ambitions we have, the more concrete challenges, if I may say so, we will also face. We need to recognise that we are facing some significant challenges, and if we crawl out of the box and look at what practice looks like instead, we can see that there are some gaps in the way. The reality is that the major plans we have for renewable energy do not match our infrastructure. As things stand now, we simply do not have capacity on the electricity grid that can handle the large amounts of green electricity in the future. It is completely outside the laws of physics if the government intends to quadruple the production of green energy on land, without we also making a massive investment in the energy network; in the transmission network, we can also call it that. I fear that we will run our heads straight towards the wall if we cannot deal with these challenges and have a look at how we adequately organise our infrastructure and legislation. Then I would like to draw your attention to the Social Democratic Mayor Birgit S. Hansen up in Frederikshavn, who said a little aptly in Jyllands-Posten: You cannot build a house if you are not ready with the foundation. One of the challenges facing us right now is that some of the control mechanisms we have seem to present challenges out there where infrastructure needs to be expanded. Wind turbines and solar cells will not be set up by making agreements. They only come up when you make concrete practical plans and put them into practice. I miss concrete initiatives by the government that show how we quadruple the green electricity production on land and how we will ensure that the electricity grid of the future can deal with the electrification of our society and, above all, how we can finance the projects. In relation to the financing aspect in particular, I do not think there is a shortage of capital, but I think there is a lack of security in relation to investment: what kind of investment environment are you looking into? I also think that at Christiansborg we have to say that we ourselves are also standing in the way of the green projects. There is clearly a silo thinking in energy policy where both the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing and the Minister for the Environment are involved. This requires slow and cumbersome processes, where it could be made more flexible and put together, perhaps under one area, where the focus should be on accelerating the green transition while still taking the necessary consideration of people, nature, etc. We owe it to producers to create the optimum framework for an ambitious and appropriate expansion of renewable energy, because we will not achieve a goal without the help and funding of private investors, and if we are to give it help by Christiansborg, we must of course create clarity. This gives the industry the best opportunities to speed up the green transition. We're not gonna do that today. That is why I mention once again the concern we have about windmills, where we say that we must now get rid of Russian gas as soon as possible. I have to say that this new producer payment has thus become extremely difficult for the VE producers when they look into it. I have to say that when we have an urgent need to strengthen the electricity grid, we simply cannot understand that companies still have to meet with a lot of uncertainty because the legislation is not in place yet. We need a strong electrification of our society. We must set up all the renewable energy that we can at all. That is why I and the Left believe that the transitional regime that we have now, when we fund expenditure through the Finance Act, should be extended to 2023. We need to create security for the future and remove a major obstacle to investors. I then have a text for adoption which I shall read on behalf of the Left, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that climate challenges and our energy dependence on Russian gas require faster action. The Danish Parliament recognises that the government has set high energy targets, but notes that there is a lack of concrete action and long-term planning for the expansion of renewable energy, electrification and energy efficiency improvement. In this light, the Danish Parliament is concerned that too little VE is currently being set up in Denmark due to the uncertainty about future tariffs and slow approval procedures for Denmark to become a net exporter of green energy by 2030. Therefore, as part of the ongoing negotiations on Denmark, the Danish Parliament instructs the government to present a concrete plan for the expansion of wind and sun on land, future-proof electricity grids and to ensure a good framework for investments by VE-setters with a guarantee of the tariff payment. In addition, the government is required to present an ambitious development plan for offshore winds and to submit proposals for financing the development, which enables Denmark's climate objectives and contributes to the EU's security of supply by 2030. V-97).
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114547	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114551	It is true, as the rapporteur says, that many agreements have been made. And the rapporteur then calls for us to perhaps break down some silo thinking. And I really think that is a fine approach, because we need to speed up both in terms of developing renewable energy and creative ways of reducing our energy consumption. Now we are faced with some negotiations on CO2 I have noted that there are some bourgeois parties, if I remember correctly, it is also the Left who say that there should be some business tax relief when you make such a CO2 So if we just have to get away from some silos thinking and normal thinking in different parties, it is perhaps a requirement that we should drop and then instead have more money for conversion, because we could of course with the CO2 accelerate the phasing out of gas in the industry. Does the rapporteur not see that, in this way, we need extra money for conversion and not for such general business tax incentives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114655	It is not the case that we are totally opposed to that thinking, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen has. When we say that we want business tax relief, it is part of a package, because in fact we want to work with a relatively large pool, which is precisely for conversion. And there is our thinking about the business pool we currently have, which is of course for energy efficiency improvements, that we also want more funds for energy conversion. And it is not certain that a horticulture that converts from gas to district heating saves kilowatt hours, but at least they save CO2 That is why there are some aspects of what we are not opposed to discussing. However, for us it is important that we also use this opportunity to ensure that, in terms of business and employment, we come on the other side of the green transition as a prosperous society, where all people have a job and where we have a healthy economy that is the basis of our welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114758	Is there a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114802	I have noted that I do not have a follow-up question, unfortunately. That fg. President It was in the opening remarks, but now that it is the general round, it is actually the general rules). Okay. I'm sorry. Thank you. It wasn't quite a rejection that we should focus on how we use that extra revenue from CO2 We in the Enhedslisten are all about that CO2 So we're totally on that transition. Does the rapporteur see that there are specific areas on which we need to focus that transition? Well, there's a lot of talk about phasing out the gas. And frankly, we have a list of what some companies are using that gas. Isn't that where we need to have an increased focus and pressure to minimise gas consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114847	In fact, that is precisely why we have said that we want the business pool not only to go to energy efficiency improvements, but actually also to go to energy conversion. And in relation to precisely switching from one source of energy to another, it may be from gas to electricity, if it is an opportunity, if I may say so, from ordinary natural gas to biogas, where it is the only option, in some parts of the food industry, that it may be difficult to use other sources of energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114921	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114925	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Now, in his speech, the rapporteur mentioned that solar cells are being produced in the Far East. What, then, are the rapporteur's proposals on how to change it and where to produce it? The second question is: the other day I received a reply from the Minister that we have windmills that are stalled, which could actually heat up somewhere between 70 000 and 200 000 homes per year. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602114953	If I take the last one first, you can say that we solve it when we get some power-to-x systems that can use the power when there is no need for it elsewhere. It also has something to do with the fact that the infrastructure you have in Germany actually makes them buy us to stop our wind turbines in certain situations. Of course, that is not appropriate. But I think we'll solve that by that channel. As far as the latter is concerned, I think it is important that we also have a life cycle assessment of some of the products we use on the environmental side and that, when we have a tender, we also have a look at it. So I also think we have to say that we also have to have a security policy aspect in it, so that we do not become dependent on some others that we do not want to be dependent on. If we are now dependent on oil from some places and gas from some places that we do not like, we should not rely on technology from some places that might use it as a means of exerting pressure on us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115052	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115054	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. What is quite different is that the rapporteur also strikes a lot on offshore wind energy. But I actually thought that wave energy in the statement from the Minister is incredibly small. What does the Left think about that? Do we not have great potential there, which we have not been properly put into action at all and at least too slow?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115114	It was tempting if wave energy really was something that worked. But the indication I have so far at least, and we in the Left have, is that wave energy, at least with the current technology we know, is a very, very expensive renewable energy source. It may well have the perspective that it works when there is no sun, and when there is no wind, but it does not change that it is very expensive at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115144	Then it's mr. Karsten Filsø, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115148	Thank you. I would like to follow up on what Mrs Susanne Zimmers mentioned about the production of solar panels. It is the case that we have a very good grip on the entire wind turbine industry in Denmark and in our part of the world, and I fully agree with the considerations put forward by the rapporteur of the Left in relation to the fact that a large part of the solar panel production takes place in the East, which is taking place in China. Therefore, there is good music in saying that we need some more production here for Denmark. And so, in the light of the political conviction of the rapporteur, I could imagine that the rapporteur would think that the market could run for much of this. But sometimes the market needs a little help. Does the rapporteur have any concrete ideas on how we can help from this House in this development, which I fully agree we should support?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115258	That is what I am trying to say by saying that, in relation to the way in which we provide, for example, from our point of view. Sea areas, the assessment criteria that must be applied must not only be about what you give for it, but must also make it possible, for example. the environmental impact and the climate impact of the processes leading to the appliances being put up. In addition, I also believe that we need to have a security policy aspect into the way we provide, in relation to one way or another, and it is not simple to consider how we ensure that we do not get into the pocket of some others, so to speak, as we are right now; in the pocket of the Russians. And it will also be something that the market will be able to act in, that is to say, that you have conditions to live up to, and then you will be able to offer things exactly as we know it today. But it's not just a bid price.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115403	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115408	Thank you very much, and thank you for an exciting speech in which the rapporteur reflects on many interesting issues. I would like to ask the rapporteur to reflect on the Left, which, during the last period of government, cancelled a number of climate objectives that the former SR government had agreed on, among other things. with reference to the fact that it would be too expensive to stick to these ambitious climate targets. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it was really a mistake that the Left chose to do so in the last period of government, not very many years ago, and what the rapporteur thinks it would have been like if the ambitious climate objectives inherited from the SR government had been maintained rather than rejected. What significance would that have had for the basis on which we have since and fortunately been pursuing a much more ambitious climate policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115510	Well, if we look back a little, I remember that the relatively large wind farm that was created at Anholt received a very, very large public grant, more than 1 DKK. per kWh. In fact, I believe that we have seen a technology development which has meant that the need for public subsidies in relation to the energy production that needs to take place now has been reduced very, very significantly. So I really believe that the expansion we are facing now will be a less financial burden on the Ministry of Finance, I would have liked to say. However, I fully recognise that the revenue from fossil energy taxes will be much, much less. I believe, on the other hand, that the expansion we are facing now will be possible without public subsidies, to a significant extent, but I believe that regulation is important, in other words, that we somehow ensure that we have a regulation that supports the market in the direction we would like, including that we also have the security policy perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115619	Thank you. Is there a follow-up note? You gotta keep in touch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115623	I think the rapporteur is right to say that it has become cheaper to expand, for example, offshore wind farms over recent years. I mean, it's really obvious. But there are many other things which also cost money in the green transition and where it can be said that it is a little too bad that the Left pursued that policy. And that leads me to ask: where does the Left stand today? Now we are in the process of negotiating a CO2 we saw with the electric car agreement that the Left was outside an otherwise good agreement with reference to the tax freeze, which is very important for the Left. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is really most important for the Left is that we get a good, uniform CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115708	That is too simple a question to ask, because it is the case that the Left has announced that we want the green transition to have a global effect; we do not want leakage it is really, really important for us. It is very important for us to maintain jobs. We are not saying that all jobs must be maintained unchanged, but it is important that employment in Denmark is also supported in the green transition. And then it is important that, with the green transition, we also ensure that this society has something to live on in the long run. So the tax freeze and the fact that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane, we attach crucial importance to still away.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115750	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115753	Thank you and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur has just mentioned the Esbjerg Agreement, which is a huge energy agreement, as far as I can see now we do not know so much about it. It must be based on wind turbines in the North Sea and extensive cooperation between four countries. It is incredibly ambitious and very good news and has a huge size; it is clear that we are generating energy for millions of families. But now, at this point, when the whole thing has not been properly sewn together, we may also have to discuss how much of the revenue comes from the energy production to be channelled into Danish society, that is, used for Danish welfare. In Norway, they have been incredibly good at using their oil millions for welfare. Sometimes in Denmark we may not have been so good at channelling so much of the profits from large energy production agreements into the Danish welfare. What does the Left think about this at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115853	But in the Left we are actually concerned that we also gain from the opportunities we have and, when we look at the North Sea, it has actually given the Danish state quite a lot of revenue. I don't remember the figure one hundred percent exactly, but it's at least something more than 500 billion. kr. We see the prospect that the Danish state will also benefit from what can take place in our part of the North Sea, no doubt about it. And we also believe that we can benefit from it in terms of industry. But this requires us to think consciously about how we are working on these things so that we, in terms of security policy, do not put ourselves in a situation, compared to if the windmills out at sea are standing still or someone is able to make cyber attacks on them, or what do I know, and that we also ensure that we have mastery over the technology that lies out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115945	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602115947	How does the Left think that it might be more concrete to ensure that some of the profits go to Danish welfare? Well, is it through taxation, is it through co-ownership? It is, of course, so much money that it could solve some of the minor discussions we always have, where you have to take a little money from one to put into the other. What more concrete steps could be taken to ensure that, as in Norway, an even greater proportion of the income goes to Danish welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120015	We have, of course, turned ourselves into spokesmen to say that we can work with some concession agreements where you get a concession for having some installations out there. It may also be combined with having a production tax in one way or another. I think that the closer negotiations must also depend on an assessment of the market situation. Right now, we are in a situation where our security of supply is very much involved in this too. So I think that's where we should be open to talk to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120046	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and I welcome the rapporteur for the authors of Mrs Paulin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120109	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing the energy policy statement and future energy policy initiatives. We look back on the past year but also into the future. Over the past year, we have reached many important agreements which help to ensure an absolutely crucial foundation for some of the technologies that will be of the utmost importance for the green transition forward. I think, for example, that it is important to highlight the agreements on power-to-x, where we have future-proof framework conditions and are about to launch a tender procedure. The same applies to CO2 and these are just some of the agreements reached in the past year which will deliver some major results for the green transition. Nevertheless, a year ago there were probably not so many of us who thought that we would be in a situation today where energy policy, as we have seen, has also been given a security policy dimension as in these days and these months. Russia's aggressive war is, first and foremost, a terrible tragedy in Ukraine, but at the same time has taken many parts of Europe's energy supply hostage. In Denmark we far along the road a place where we have a very good starting point for getting rid of Putin's gas. We have a high share of renewable energy in our energy supply and we have an own production for some years to come of oil and natural gas in the North Sea until it is shut down. We use waste energy and waste heat in district heating and I could go on like that. But the war also shows that we need an even higher pace in the conversion to and expansion of green renewable energy. That is why we have also started negotiations to bring natural gas consumption down quickly and instead replaced with district heating, with biogas, with electrification. And on the part of the Social Democrats, we have also announced that we must have high ambitions about the expansion of more renewable energy. We want to quadruple the production of green electricity from the winds and the sun, to establish 1-4 GW additional sea winds by 2030, and we look forward to further discussions with the parties on this. Then, on behalf of S, SF and Enhedslisten, I will read out the following proposals for adoption text: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that broad and framework agreements were concluded in 2021 for the green transition of the energy sector in Denmark. However, 2021 and the beginning of 2022 have also shown that Denmark's energy and supply sector is vulnerable, among other things. against rising energy prices and dependence on Russian gas, and the need for political initiatives to create a more green and secure Denmark. The Danish Parliament calls for a massive expansion of renewable energy, including acting on the ambitions of the project... Denmark can more II... about a quadrupling of the production of green electricity from the winds and the sun. Similarly, energy efficiency improvements and electrification must be seen as an important part of the solution in order to be free from dependence on Russian gas. An ambitious energy policy and the pace of the green transition are essential for achieving Danish and European security of supply and energy prices that are affordable. V 98). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120437	Thank you. There are a number of brief remarks, first from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120442	We fully agree in the Enhedslisten with the aim of getting rid of Putin's gas, which is why it is also important what happens together, and there I have noted that the Social Democrats are sticking to the extension of a gas pipeline on Lolland-Falster to two sugar factories, despite the fact that a report has recently been produced which shows that, if you went for electrification, it would be a better solution. And I am well aware that there is something technical where it may be a bit difficult, but could a partial electrification not be something that could be achieved instead? Because I think it is such a pity that, when we have to phase out the gas, we are expanding our gas network in a part of the country and thus perhaps luring some more companies into the gas instead of moving on to an electrification which would be the lasting solution. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a dilemma that has not been resolved in the right way on Lolland-Falster?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120540	What the report by Deloitte and Kraka, to which the rapporteur refers, does not relate is the question of what is actually possible for the company, in this case for Nordic Sugar, and I am aware that it is not possible for them to make this electrification solution. So you can sit down and do some calculations and come to the logical conclusion that, because gas prices are higher today than they used to be, it will also be a more expensive solution for Nordic Sugar to move to the gas. But we have to relate to the reality that it's not an immediate possibility for them to do this electrification. It may come at a later time. I would also like to say that I think it is necessary to look at this in such a way that the infrastructure that exists can also transport biogas, and that it may also be able to transport other forms of green fuels or other forms of green gas in the future, and that it can therefore also give good reason that this type of infrastructure will come to a part of the country which is currently decoupled from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120650	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120652	I think there's gonna be a fight for the green gas. Another issue is that the government in these CO2s would like us to have a good debate on whether it would not be better for the money, the income, to go more to phase out some gas in the business world. For that option we will also have, that is to say, that we can support it, rather than that it all goes to CCS. Since we have this security policy situation, would it not be sensible to take an annual turn on that aspect?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120731	The negotiations on this are now under way. But as I remember, not everything is meant to go to CCS either. So there will also be other opportunities to make energy efficiency improvements for companies, and there is no doubt that getting natural gas or biogas out for that matter, if electrification is an opportunity for one's business, is a really, really good thing and something that we must aim for. Then I think CCS is a really, really important tool, also for some of these very big emitters, where you might not see that there is some energy efficiency that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120812	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120816	Thank you. I would just like to stay on track, which Enhedslisten opened with Nordic Sugar, where the rapporteur says that the rapporteur knows that it is not possible to use an electric solution or half-electricisation. Is this something the rapporteur has examined, or is it based on what Nordic Sugar himself says? The rapporteur also says that this should be investigated and documented. Is it the case that the government could imagine conducting an investigation to verify whether it is true that it is so difficult to do some kind of electrification of the Nordic Sugar industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120859	Yes, it is Nordic Sugar as a company that has the assessment that it is not possible. With the prices that we look into, with a slightly unstable future image, also in relation to gas we all hope that prices will fall I think that if electrification was possible, one would have a very good incentive to do so in the situation we are in. Nevertheless, the assessment is that it is not possible. It is also something about which there has been a dialogue with the Danish Energy Agency on etc. So it's not out of thin air that this is the possibility they see. Then I also believe that there are some advantages in the fact that there are, for example, local opportunities for biogas production in the area, which is not currently available, which can then also give some other green gas both to Nordic Sugar, but also to other places where it is requested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602120959	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121001	My question was whether the government will verify Nordic Sugar's claim that it is far too expensive. It may be a little more expensive, but sometimes we may have to accept a little less revenue if it is the case that we can get some very large green benefits out of it. So will the government verify Nordic Sugar's own assessment that it would be so difficult to do some kind of electrification?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121029	But there has already been a dialogue with Nordic Sugar in connection with this project coming on the drawing board. So the dialogue on what is possible and what is not possible has already been there, which is why I see no reason why we should delay a project further, when at the same time we are also turning up biogas production and turning down the consumption of fossil natural gas elsewhere in business and in households, which means that the gas that is going to be in the pipes of Nordic Sugar will be greener than we had previously expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121109	Thank you. The next question comes from Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121112	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Biogas has filled a lot of speeches today. Does the rapporteur think that biomass on which biogas is based is CO2 or does the rapporteur recognise that biomass is actually also CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121132	Yeah, it's a complex set of calculations, that's true. But there is, you might say, CO 2 In addition, some of what we are looking at now is whether you can put CO 2 2 So in this way I think biogas is a really, really important tool in the climate struggle. But of course it is also important, as we also focus on the right things to use for biogas. For example, we should not have as our goal that we are going to produce a whole lot of extra food that can be packed in biogas tanks. So there are, of course, the balances that are important when we talk biogas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121237	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121239	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur recognises that there are challenges in using biomass. But another question: right now there are oil and gas companies that make a lot of money from rising energy prices. Could it be imagined that the Social Democratic Party would work for a crisis tax on the profits that could then be used to establish new renewable energy sources?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121304	It's not something we just have on the drawing board. I also think it has to be said that, of course, some people are making money on this right now, but for the ordinary citizen it is really, really expensive that we are experiencing the high energy prices that we are doing, so perhaps it is not just the place to impose a fire tax that everything else will just be passed on to consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121331	The next question is from Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121335	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to turn to gas, but with a slightly different starting point. In the party that I belong to, the Left, we like biogas, and we actually believe that biogas is a good way of using residual waste, biomass residue waste. In this context, Biogas Denmark has said that it is able to replace the expected gas consumption in Denmark in 2027 with biogas, and there we sense that the government is a little bit of foot-to-mouth in order to set those processes in motion relatively quickly. What is the rapporteur's position on this matter right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121422	I do not think that the government is foot-to-mouth on this point. After all, we are debating this now and we hope that we will find each other in the negotiating room on this. It is true, of course, that there is a slight difference between what Biogas Denmark is promoting and the government's rather high ambitions that we should have 100 per cent. Green gas in the Danish gas consumption in 2030, but there are also, you might say, a number of assumptions, etc. for Biogas Denmark's calculations, which are of such a more technical nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121457	Thank you. There is a follow-up question from Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121503	Thank you. With regard to the calculations, we have asked the question whether the calculations that have been made are based on old data, and there we have actually confirmed that they are based on old data, including old price estimates. If you look into the price world we have right now, then there is something that indicates that the subsidy requirement that will be in connection with filling the Danish natural gas network with biogas, green biogas, in 2027 will actually have a different economic basis. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121541	I think that we need to see how we can meet each other in the negotiating room on this issue, and that this is a balancing factor between the fact that on the one hand we need to get some more biogas quickly and, on the other hand, we also need to think about how we spend the money on biogas and ensure that there is efficiency and cost-effectiveness in the way we use biogas products. Because you could say that history might scare a little bit, so it's been a little hard to estimate in this area exactly what it's going to cost. So that is a concern that we must take into account in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121617	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121621	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur mentions that electrification is going well, but how well is it going for heavy industry? And here I want to talk about power-to-x. After all, we have finally reached an agreement and a little money has been set aside. Can the rapporteur tell us when a power-to-x production is expected to start, which can electrify and help heavy transport and heavy industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121649	Well, I don't have such a specific date and time for the different projects to go off. But there are a lot of different ptx projects where you are building etc. There are many different places in Denmark, which I think is very positive. It is almost the case that every provincial town, with respect for itself, must now have a ptx plant. So I really think that there is a great deal of appetite for it and that we have also created a good framework for it with the ptx agreement that we have made. And I do not really believe that it is a question of having billions and billions for supply, but that there are some good framework conditions for it, and that is where I think we have created a good ptx agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121738	It sounds more like an attitude issue. And no money has been set aside for establishment. But there is also the fact that the government in the 2022 Finance Act allocates 2.5 billion. kr. for the capture and storage of biogenic CO2 The biogenic CO2 the government thinks it is good framework conditions that the government goes out and buys the biogenic CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121810	I think that in the long term it is of course important that the biogenic CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121835	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And then we welcome the rapporteur of the SF, Mr. Karsten Filsø.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602121854	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your statement. There were some good words in the statement and we both hope and believe that there will be action behind those words. We would very much like to be involved in pushing for this. It is not very many months since 5 months, in fact I stood here last time as a substitute for our permanent energy, supply and climate rapporteur, but how many things have happened since then. There is now a broad consensus and understanding that we need more solar cells, that we need more land wind and much, much more offshore wind turbines, and it also seems that we can soon come up with an agreement that will make us independent of Russian gas. I think it is important that we remember to celebrate our shared victories, although we are still a long way from achieving the green transition. If we forget to tell you about the great progress that we are actually making, if we constantly say that more and more must be done, instead of also remembering to stop once in a while and tick the milestones we have, then I think we are losing our credibility. The Danes expect us to deliver on the green transition, and they also want to hear about the results achieved. The war in Ukraine is, of course, the most important shift since I last stood here. It has made it crystal clear that energy policy is also very much a security policy and that the European Union plays an important role in our security policy. That is why we also need to see energy policy much more in a European context. It is not only Denmark, but the whole of the European Union, which must have made itself independent of gas. This means that we must look at the enormous potential of sea winds in the North Sea from a European perspective. After all, it is a large, rather shallow area, and the recent agreements between Denmark and our three neighbours to the south show that there is a lot of focus on the potentials there is. That is why it must also be a guiding principle of our energy policy that we have to set up as much renewable energy as possible, and that can only go too slowly. We need to develop the electricity grid as soon as possible so that it does not slow down the expansion of solar and wind energy, and this is the same sentence I have put two lines below that is extremely important. In addition, we need to have a look at having turbo on the energy savings. There's a lot of potential in it. Last but not least, we need to phase out the natural gas from the heat supply as soon as possible. In SF we actually think it can be reached by 2027. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122218	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Well, then, I'd like to welcome Mr. Knox. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122236	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much for your statement. It's a pleasure to be able to take this annual stocktake as it's called, so just take stock of how far we are, what we're facing and what we're missing. If anything, 2021 has been the year in which it has been established that energy and climate policy are also security policy, and the war in Ukraine has shown that we are fragile when we rely on fossil fuels, but also that we are strong when we stand together. The challenge we face on top of Ukraine, of course, is acute, and fortunately it is entirely in line with the challenge we have in the area of climate change, but there is good reason to accelerate the pace of the green transition on top of what has happened in Ukraine. I think it is important to remember to constantly look beyond Denmark's borders when we in the Danish Parliament adopt energy and climate policy. I think that some of the negotiations we had last year have been marked by too much cheese bells and too little global vision, and that is why my green heart has been very pleased with the vision presented to the North Sea in cooperation with several of our neighbouring countries. It is huge and it provides a genuine European perspective on the opportunities of the North Sea, but we are now, of course, lacking some concrete action by the government. It is glorious in the statement to read about Kriegers Flak, and it always gives me the opportunity to philosophize a little about how much development is really going on in the green area. I remember how we talked about Krieger's Flak, which would then be our biggest offshore wind farm when we made the energy settlement in 2012, and I remember how I spent almost years protecting Krieger's Flak, which was debated because there were parties that wanted it out of the energy agreement, because you had to have too much state money tied in Krieger's Flak. At that time we managed to maintain a common political support for Kriegers Flak, now it is standing there, and it is the largest wind farm, and it has been, which is very important, a stepping stone, towards the new reality in the North Sea and hopefully also in the Baltic Sea. From now on, we should no longer tie state money in the tail to new capacity, we are running for it; on the contrary, people are ready to pay for installing capacity out there. If we hadn't bought, for example. Kriegers Flak and the other offshore wind farms, we had never got as far as the point we came to with the supply of Thor, where it was the first time that could be a surplus business for the state. Unfortunately, since there is talk of a surplus business for the state, I hear a huge interest, not in how we can set up the maximum capacity, but rather how we can make as much money from this. I am still away where I am impressed that we do not need to give money to put up green capacity, and I do not think we should forget the lemon; on the contrary, I think we should try to say that, when there is this willingness, we should use the economic opportunities that exist to put it out there, but not to make as much money as possible, but to speed up the deployment as quickly as possible by constantly providing capacity. As I said, my green heart is pleased that the government has put that vision of the North Sea together with the neighbouring states, and I think, of course, that we should do exactly the same in the Baltic Sea. I hope that Krieger's Flak will not be the last but that we will have a further expansion around Krieger's flak, that we will have an expansion of the potential of the whole Baltic Sea, and I hope that, just as we are now trying to target the North Sea, we will also be aiming at the full potential of the Baltic Sea. It must be a call to the government. We need more energy islands, it is also obvious, and therefore I am surprised that there is still no clarification of the supply on the first energy island. In fact, I thought there was a common understanding of the framework of supply. It is more than a year since we jointly adopted the plan that we now have to set the first energy island on the move, but we haven't made the offer yet. It is also obvious that even if we have to accelerate and complete the work around the green current, green current is not enough. We also need to get away from fossil energy. Again, I am surprised that the government insists on having gas in the warming process by 2030. Gas is a refined fuel for space heating, it should be used elsewhere. One by one can all the gas we don't burn Denmark, reduce our imports of gas from Russia, so of course we shouldn't have gas in the heating by 2030. It is also wrong for the same reason to maintain a coal-black gas pipeline to Lolland and Falster, which is an economically bad idea and which has already gone over the budget and makes us more dependent on Russian gas, and it is of course obvious that this is the wrong way to go. All these comments are alone to say that although we have come a long way, although we have put the bar high space, even though the technology is with us, there is still a lot of work to be done out there, and we will, of course, work from the radical side, to get the point by point through to accelerate the green transition. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122715	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122720	After all, the rapporteur emphasized the international dimension, and the Radicals, together with other parties in the Folketing, have agreed to an agreement on the intention to use 2%. of the gross domestic product of the military. I think it would be interesting to take equally seriously the intentions of the Paris Agreement to provide more climate aid to the poorest countries. Can the rapporteur see how it could, as it were, be achieved that the intentions of NATO to increase its military budgets are taken as seriously as those of NATO, that is to say that we have also drawn the parallel to the fact that in Denmark we take it fully seriously that climate aid should be much higher? We have, for example. Last year, in the course of financial law discussions, there had to be a struggle to raise it by just 100 million. kr. Does the rapporteur see that there is some international commitment that needs to be increased, not in the military field, but in the civil way with climate aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122822	Thank you. I think the rapporteur is barking out of the wrong tree. We have been very active on the part of the radicals in raising climate aid, including in the latest financial laws, and that is something that we absolutely share. I am not pale to discuss whether to use some of the revenue from CO2 international climate assistance. But making such a replacement and saying that we should not spend money on defence and that we would rather spend it like that is a logic that I do not buy. I think there is a very, very great need in Europe for us to stand together. After we have seen that a totalitarian regime has invaded a democratic country, we also need to provide a military response. So, in my view, it is not the case that, by standing up to Putin, we are failing the climate. We have to do both.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122910	Now the rapporteur mentioned earlier on that the Ministry of Finance could have a negative impact on our climate policy by having the no-hat in many ways. I would like to hear about the idea of having the climate law's prerequisites put into the budget law, so that when you take for granted that if you really go so far with your phasing out of fossil energy, then it must result in revenue being much lower. Is this something that the rapporteur can see as a model in a future green financial law process?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602122946	Yes, when something cannot go on, it has to stop at some point, and this is that the Ministry of Finance is basing itself on future revenue from fossil energy, which we have decided at the same time in the Climate Act that we do not want, is so obviously crazy and against the laws of nature that the Ministry of Finance should decide. And, of course, we will continue to push the Ministry of Finance to get into the real world and not to operate with fictitious revenue that we politically do not think we should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602123013	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and welcome the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602123031	Thank you. We recognise that a great deal has happened, as the statement also says. In other words, there is a pace of change. And the good thing about being up and running is that you can go on and do a lot. You can do that once you're up and running. That is where we think we should use the current situation, where not only do we have a climate crisis, but we also have a crisis in Europe with war and where, with what is happening, we are helping to finance Putin's attack war in Ukraine with all our purchases of fossil fuels in Ukraine, mainly gas, but also oil. When agreements are then concluded within the European Union, I am surprised that this is happening with the great degree of slowness it does. We need to focus much more nationally on phasing out the gas more quickly. We need to have a strong focus on a faster reduction in gas consumption. I am well aware that this is not something that we can do from one year to the next, compared with the 400 000 households with which we have a special task, but we need to draw up a plan, a binding plan that will make this happen as soon as possible. Then there is also an industry which is probably already in progress. Any company that follows up the budget every month will have to reflect on whether we can get rid of the gas and move on to electrification, and there may be other good solutions as well. I think it is really a pity that the government is sticking to this expansion of the gas grid on Lolland. It is about the biogas produced in Denmark in the future to be used wisely, that it should be used by those companies that cannot be electrified. We are not convinced that it is not possible to make a general electrification of sugar production in Denmark. So it is really a pity that while we want to reduce gas consumption in some parts of Denmark, the government is continuing to spread gas consumption in other parts of the country. It is often the case when we have these debates that it is more of the new that gets a big focus, and I really think that we should focus more on what should be less of it, and that is, of course, energy consumption. Making energy savings, making energy efficiency improvements, converting to other energy sources, getting electrified and getting a big focus on intelligent management of our energy consumption is something that tends to be a bit in the shadow of new large wind turbines. I think that's a shame. That is where we can achieve faster results in the changeover. That is where we might also be able to gain greater popular commitment. There is no doubt that there are some people in Denmark who are currently hit very hard on the wallet by rising energy prices. Those who have a long way to work and usually drive a petrol or diesel vehicle are challenged. In relation to the people who heat their house with gas and who may have the prospect of receiving a check of DKK 6,000 in a few months, it may be that the DKK 6,000. is good to get, but for many households it is something that does not at all cover the increasing cost one is affected by. Some people are being hit particularly hard. That's one of them. the people who live for rent in a gas-fired house. They can't just re-insulate that apartment. After all, you cannot just decide that there should be another energy supply. So the people hit hardest by these rising energy prices, we have an obligation to take care of and help. It's really good that we still have the green check. There are then some parties that want to abolish it, and we on the Group of the European People's Party think that this is quite the wrong step to take. Because with it, you can target the aid to the people who are most affected. It is, of course, a fairly comprehensive statement. You look in it and look for what fills up too little. That is where I think, when we talk about the expansion of renewable energy, a quadrupling of it, that it is therefore necessary that we find solutions where we have more solar cells set up. The quick solution is to use the flat roofs around the country. The good thing is that there are a lot of flat roofs in those parts of the country where you have an increasing electricity consumption. If you could really use the roof surfaces for solar cells in the Copenhagen area and East Jutland, you would be able to cover a large part of the increased electricity consumption in those areas. This isn't just done by making this expansion with the VE. We also need to look at it in the context of energy management and see it in the context of making energy savings that really are batting. Often sea wind fills up a lot in these debates, and I have also noted that there is some focus on that today. It is in process, but I also think that, compared to some of the largest projects, there are some slightly smaller projects such as Hesselø, which can now be read under review. After all, we have to come to the conclusion that if wind turbines are not built in that area, then we have to take a decision to say yes to some other offshore wind farms. And then I find it exciting to see that there are also some smaller players who are still working with offshore wind turbines on a slightly smaller scale, and I very much hope that the two projects at Copenhagen will reach their goal. After all, there are municipalities that have high ambitions CO2 Copenhagen has, among other things, and if you have to go a long way with its plan, then the two offshore wind turbine projects at Copenhagen will be a good contribution. This would be better than continuing to set up mills elsewhere in the country. The close solutions sometimes have a potential for greater support. I think that in the field of energy we are seeing huge investments being made and that we are looking into something where popular engagement can be difficult. But I also note that there are larger pension funds that are involved in the solutions, there are larger co-owned energy companies that are also involved, also when we look at some of the biggest investments we face. We have district heating companies that are municipal owned and that are involved in this conversion, so we're looking into something where you should have these power-to-x plants to be places where you can get waste heat into our district heating systems. So it can be said that the joint companies in the form of pension companies, co-owned energy companies and municipalities have some major role to play, where we need to be aware of whether they have the right framework conditions. If you were to look at what can arise from new things, then it is important to have the individual citizen with you. But I think that because these plants are getting bigger and bigger, we have to do something where we organise ourselves in new ways. And there I think these communities of citizens' energy have pointed out that there could be solutions where, across something normal, something has been created that has been invested in a common production. I am well aware that there are framework conditions that we do not quite finish defining, but we do have to do that, and we must ensure that what we have adopted in some agreements is not blocked by the fact that there are governments and authorities who still think that this is too much trouble. And if we come to the conclusion that what we have adopted on these collective grid tariffs does not work, then we have to return to it. Then I also think that there are a great many people who really want to make an individual effort. And I think that is also important, and we are back there again with the energy savings, we are back with people who want an electric car and solar cells on the roof. There is some behaviour that we need to take care of so that it does not just become the giant solutions that we have. We need to ensure that we have popular support in the transformation that we have not completed at all. We're not in the finish line. And right now, there's a big focus on getting 70%. CO2 So we have a huge task in which we can say that a great deal has happened, I recognise that, but we are not in the end at all, and we must use the pace that we have had on the processes and intensify it. And I look forward very much to having more agreements on CO2 before the summer break, and that's just what we're going to do now in four weeks. I look forward to the cooperation that needs to be achieved in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602123948	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602123953	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I welcome the fact that energy efficiency and savings take up so much, because we cannot just keep generating more and more renewable energy. We have to go the other way. And also when it comes to energy communities and cooperatives etc., we need to look at better conditions for them. Now it is the case that Enhedslisten is often said to be the government's green watchdog, and I think that is a really nice thing. But that still means that Enhedslisten often agrees to agreements and at the same time criticises them. Now I want to hear how this statement is in line with the agreement paper. Is it good enough to hear the Climate Council criticize the government that we still see the hockey staff in use?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602124053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602124054	Well, it is true that the Climate Council has made some criticism. And that is because in a number of the agreements that Enhedslisten has also been involved in, there are some bets that can reduce CO2 and there I am pleased that in some agreements, for example, we are satisfied. The agreement on agriculture has been concluded that we must return to that agreement, so if technological progress is to slow down, then other measures will have to be taken. This can easily be done in agriculture. You can just reduce the number of livestock. Then you move on very quickly and very easily. So we're not so worried. So I am actually satisfied that we are in many agreements, and it is often that we stand behind and say that we would have liked to have had something better, and then we continue to fight for it. We are not just a watchdog; we are also a workhorse, and we are still working. So I think it is an advantage when I look back at all the agreements that I have helped negotiate and conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602124156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602124158	Thank you. It is, after all, a political position that can be taken, and that is quite fair. But to renegotiate, for example. After all, the agricultural agreement means that a few years will pass before the renegotiation. And we also know that the transition to a more plant-based agriculture does not come overnight. So isn't there a little hockey stick in this anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602124218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602124220	No, it can be said with regard to the plant-based, that we then had substantial amounts set aside both in agricultural support and in the new plant fund that can support it. There we actually got a lot longer than we could imagine before those negotiations started. Then there's some technology in it. Now there were invitations to tender for pyrolysis; the bids have come in, and now the funds are being distributed. And it's gonna be really exciting, because I hear that it's both small and large plants that could get into process. And then I think we're gonna find out quite quickly whether the carbon bond you can get with the new technology is good enough to bet on. So I'm an optimist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602124254	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and welcome to the rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602124306	Thank you. We have an energy policy statement here today. It's a good thing we get a status here at the end of the year. Now we have been at it for three years since we have had a climate and green choice. When you read the statement, you think it is quite a fine and green almost beautiful painting that the government is drawing here. It is true, as it says, that we have a large number of positions of strength that have been built up over a number of years, with broad political support • positions of strength, which include a large green industry today and export, and which still have a huge export potential. However, the challenge is that the government's, I would actually say, slowness and hesitation in creating conducive framework conditions is slowing the market down and risk weakening our international competitiveness. But my fear is also that we will not be able to achieve the green transition, and the Danes still have high energy prices, despite the fact that we should be self-sufficient. It's slow. The VE extension has practically stopped. Last year, for example, three wind turbines were sold. They're gonna be set up this year. However, trades for 2023 and 2024 seem to have slowed up sharply, and this gives a very good indication of the seriousness. It is a little better in the field of solar power, but the uncertainty about the tariff model itself has created a serious situation. The North Sea's energy island is mentioned. Yes, it is true that we need to expand more sea winds. We certainly agree with that, but the state approach gives a little more a snail pace than a speed. We started, for example. the first negotiations on the energy sector tender process on 23 August last year, and that debate has not yet been concluded. However, it seems that thousands of pages have come to what needs to be the procurement process itself. We, together with some other parties, stressed that we should have a functional offer and a time limit and then let the market make a bid. The market wants to. The government is good at setting many fine goals. We saw that in Esbjerg at the latest. We support the fine objectives, but the government has also become very, very good at holding press meetings. But now we don't have to spend another three years on targets. Perhaps 3 months, 1⁄2 years were the right priority and then 2-21⁄2 years on strategy and planning in collaboration with the market and then doing a strong service check on the administration regime which deals with and includes energy. The market shows time and time again that it is ready. For example: last year, the supply of Thor offshore wind farms all by itself on pure market conditions, and the Danish state will earn just over 2 billion. kr. annual. Unfortunately, it was won by a lottery draw because only the minimum price was paid, and it went to Germany so well for our so-called strength positions. We would very much like that not to happen in the future. It also states that Denmark is the world leader in power-to-x. It has strengthened its position as a global leader. I couldn't help pulling a little on the smile tape when I read it. Yes, because we have every opportunity to be a global leader with our technological development and access to potential VE, and the companies that are ready have started themselves before politicians. The reality is, however, that several EU countries came much sooner with a power-to-x strategy • France, Germany, Belgium, even Poland got one. It took a very long time for us to reach that agreement, and then it is a simple agreement with 1.25 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no provision for the establishment of installations that we wanted, but only for operation. In Denmark, more II is able to phase out Russian gas. We threw ourselves into the meetings, let go of what we had in our hands, because it's important. There is ambition and there is a target by 2030, but it is urgent. We have been going on for five weeks, but the debate has not been concluded yet, and there are not really any concrete proposals completed. But in the meantime, Russia got ahead of us and they shut down the gas. I must say that it is good that Ørsted stood firm in rejecting a claim for payment in rubles. So citizens lack an overview of when they can get district heating and who needs gas. And what do citizens have of alternatives until we have enough RE or can offer them some good, cheap green gas? Many citizens are concerned. I think that many of my colleagues are also getting a lot of inquiries. At least I do that every day. Yesterday, for example, a citizen called. and asked: can I get supplements for a heat pump? 10,000 kroner. It costs me in the grocery store, and 15,000 kroner. In establishment. I might get district heating in 2026, maybe in 2028, I'm not quite aware of it, and I just want to say that I only use my heat pump when the price of gas is really high, and when it's really, really cold, and I can also put a meter on, because I'd like to use what I have of my district heating, but it's so expensive. I could not give the citizen an answer about district heating, heat pumps, or whether that was possible. So now I say this again to the Minister I said it before in my answer: the citizens lack an answer to how to deal with the high energy prices. The relevance of a heat check has long since expired. I think it hasn't been paid out yet, because it's a long-term problem, and it affects a lot of people. The petrol also has record prices, up to nearly 20 kroner. Food is more expensive, and we are the world's most taxed country. We lack concrete action, and a year ago I also asked the government: should we not sit down together? Guys, we're backing these targets. This is something we all want, so should we have a strategic plan for the expansion of the VE: how much, where and how? It was rejected over and over again. But now the government has finally written in the statement that there has to be a plan. But we miss the content, and now it has been a year. So we need a plan for where and how VE is to be produced, how we handle our administration regime and how we deal with municipal self-government, but at the same time we also get some speed on. So we need action and no more targets and for Denmark to become a net exporter of green energy. After all, there is a need for a threefold increase in green energy production in Denmark until 2030. We hope that the government will guarantee that it will become a reality. A minimum requirement should be set for the development on land, because the expansion is going slowly, and then we must have the proper framework conditions in place for RES operators by then also postponing the producer payments right now, which are slowing down so much. We must also look at a completely new form of supply model for how to develop at sea and how to supplement state supply with market-driven expansion, but also on land. If offshore winds are not to burden the state's finances, I would like to know here whether the Minister is prepared to ensure qualified tender criteria, including for the entire value chain in the Danish wind turbine industry. After all, the electricity grid is something we have also been discussing for a long time, including in connection with last year's law. But we do have a strong concern that not enough is being invested in that electricity network, so how will a high level of security of supply be ensured without upgrading the electricity grid? Then we have power-to-x. We are very pleased that it finally came, but you would like to know how many gigawatt power-to-x capacity you are now expected to have established with the forthcoming tender. Do you have any idea what this could actually contribute to? Do we have a close dialogue with the market so that we know what we can expect? It will also help many of our large companies, which will be hit very hard now. High gas prices, CO 2 Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125140	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125146	Thank you. I gotta say, the speech wasn't a great painting. It was a great pity, and one might well wonder, since the Conservatives are part of the vast majority of energy agreements that have been made and which are mentioned in this statement. I guess it's just the heat check for the 2 billion. kr. where the Conservatives will not help consumers with their high heating bills. Otherwise, the Conservatives are part of the whole thing, and I cannot understand why the Conservatives have agreed to so many agreements when it is all so poor. I think that is a bit impressive, because it is voluntary to agree to an agreement, and I could actually, when I hear all the pity about how bad it is, imagine that it was better under the former bourgeois government. For there I have certainly seen that there was a very large footwork on the part of the then Minister for Climate and Energy, and where you did not go for such high targets. Yeah, you made some deals, but you weren't interested in changing society. Does the rapporteur not see that it is a little better for me even though, of course, I do not think it should be done in a glorious manner of something that could be better than the rapporteur's point of view in his speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125253	Thank you. There were also many comments. First of all, I can say in relation to the agreements that, of course, we are very much in favour of objectives. After all, we support these agreements because they are broad-based agreements. We're part of this, and it's something we all want. What we are worried about is much the stateisation, the approach to it, instead of opening up more, so as to create a clearer dialogue with the market, and recognise that you cannot sit and plan everything from desks on how to deal with this profound green transition, including with technologies that are not yet known. We need to be much more agile and speed up, and we know that we have green companies that are so ready to invest and who want to do so, and it is precisely with Thor's offshore wind farm that it is possible to do so on its own, for example. Not only do you make one offer and you sit on your hands, but you could make more tenders at once. So it's especially something about speed. As regards the criticism of the previous government, I do not think that the green was generally the highest on the agenda. If you ask Mette Frederiksen, she was certainly much more red then than she was actually green, and there was simply a change in the last election, and there I am also glad that I was elected, and my election campaign was the green transition and a market driven one.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125420	Well, that's a little funny to hear, because now there's a criticism of a federal decision. In other words, the greatest stateisation of this is, of course, that through the state's finances we are making some tenders where we are giving a subsidy to the business community and the rapporteur is trying to make it that the market can do more. Well, the market can just get started without subsidies. That's all it is. But a big focus is, of course, that we make one agreement after another, where we pump billions into the development of one thing and the other, and then you have to hear pity that it does not seem to work and that it is a stateisation of things. But that's because the market can't do it alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125456	The market can do a lot of things, but this is also critical infrastructure, which is public-private cooperation. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. If we talk about the network, they are waiting for what the cost of expanding the network will be, what the connection price will be, so that we can move on. There is a lack of clarity and it slows everything down. In relation to having permission to bid at a wind farm, it has to be offered first somewhere. Then there are those things where things go slowly, and that, for example. Just for Hesselø. You're still waiting for what's gonna happen to it. Then there was Omø Syd, and it's also stalled. So there are just some mechanisms in this, where things are moving slowly, and the power-to-x strategy also went very slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125548	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125552	Thank you. I would first like to agree with the previous questioner that it is a strange paradox that the rapporteur, on the one hand, is problematizing a state ment while, on the other hand, she asked me, when I was on the platform earlier, about exactly how many ptx installations are coming when. So it's kind of a fun paradox that on the one hand the state must not fill anything, but at the same time the state must know everything. Now to another question. The rapporteur is also sorry not to be able to answer exactly when you can expect to have district heating in some municipality when a citizen is approaching. It is probably no wonder that it is the municipalities that are the heat authorities, and that is precisely what we are trying to get to go even faster in the negotiations we have. I would like to hear what Conservatives' policy is in relation to this with help with, for example, a heat pump. Is this something to which all these hundreds of thousands of households who will need to convert away from gas should be able to apply for help?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125704	As regards the first, which was mentioned, about power-to-x, it was about whether or not it is the right framework conditions. It was because the rapporteur said that good framework conditions had been created, and then I thought it was interesting to know what you mean by good framework conditions and whether you can qualify it by having an idea of what the 1.2 billion. kr. can be used for even when it is only for operation and not for establishment. In relation to subsidies for heat pumps, or whatever it may be, we have proposed several times that instead of giving this subsidy from, for example, The energy renovation pool etc. turns it into a deduction so it can go faster. The citizens are asking what they can do in the meantime. They are well aware that they may not know for the time being when they will have district heating, but they would like to find some alternative solutions in time for the next firing season.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125757	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. The rapporteur says that a deduction will be introduced instead of a subsidy, but no matter what, it will still cost some money. That is why I would like to ask the question: is this something to which everyone should be entitled? How much money are Conservatives willing to spend on this? Where should the funding come from? And what will it cost when it comes to hundreds of thousands of households? So that's really what I'd like to hear about. After all, we in the government wanted a targeted focus on some of the households that would otherwise find it difficult to finance this investment. So where do Conservatives stand?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125840	After all, we are at the point where we say that we need to be identified as soon as possible, where the district heating is and when it will be rolled out. And then we have to look at how we can help those households that do not get district heating and that are not converted into anything else. Well, then we'll have to look at what's out of other options. That's what we're dealing with. We started by looking at exactly that in January. We're not gonna go on a heat check. We think, for example, that we should instead. could lower the tax, especially at the bottom, in order to give people a better opportunity to pay their bills, among other things. their major energy bills.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125915	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602125930	Thank you. It has to be said that when we look at energy policy, a great deal is happening at this time. We were, in fact, engaged in the green transition, and then these things happened in Ukraine, and it has not, of course, been the case that there has been less impetus on the green transition. And why is that? What do these things have to do with each other? In the Danish People's Party we have been looking at the green transition for many years. the possibility of getting more home, that is to say the possibility of becoming more independent in relation to our energy supply. It has not only been in relation to Putin's black gas, which I think everyone is constantly hearing politicians mention, but it has also been in relation to oil and gas coming from Arab countries. Because when we do the green transition, we also get more hand in hand with where we get our energy from, and that, of course, is also about security of supply. That is why we find the area incredibly exciting. One of the things that fills a lot at the moment is the question of the hen and the egg; that is, we are actually producing enough green power in relation to the conversion we are going to make? No, we don't. So we're gonna produce some more green power. When we then produce some more green power, do we have the opportunity to detach the green current? No, there's some infrastructure missing. Now I come from Lolland-Falster myself, and there we actually have quite a few large RE projects that have been approved. So they have been through the whole mill where they have been approved, but they are not being set up. Then why don't they? It is simply because the power grid cannot handle more power from Lolland-Falster. That is why we have some quite major challenges in relation to it. We have also dealt with this in some of the agreements we have made. But what I am experiencing at the moment is that there are, in fact, some investors who say: can we not be allowed to do so ourselves? There are, among other things: an example from Funen, where some investors say: can we be allowed to be part of the work of digging down the infrastructure? In fact, we in the Danish People's Party think that we should be very positive about this. One of the things that also emerged in connection with the war in Ukraine was that when the war broke out, some windmills had to be set up on land. The Prime Minister never lets a good crisis go away, and it had to be done really quickly, and it was said that the windmill ceiling should probably also go away, and if you are not for it, it is because you are too black Russian gas. We are not in favour of black Russian gas, but we are not in favour of changing the wind turbine ceiling either. The wind turbine ceiling is about the number of turbines, it's not about the quantity of kilowatts. That is why we believe that we can clearly achieve our objectives of producing more green electricity, including on land, and also with the windmill ceiling agreed by a very, very broad majority of Parliament's parties. In fact, it was all the parties that existed at the time that reached that agreement. New parties have come to the side. So we would very much like to hold on to that. Another thing that we would also like to stick to, and that we are working on right now, is what is at stake in district heating and heat pumps, and, as other rapporteurs have said, it is, of course, about going from using oil and gas to using other forms of energy, but it is also about looking at how we can reduce our energy consumption. For that is absolutely right, as has been said: it is not just about getting some other energy; it is also about using less energy. When we look at the prices that we can see now, it acts among other things. about telling the Danes what the best investment is. For some Danes it will actually right now. be a better investment to buy some insulation than it will be to buy a heat pump. It is very important that we do not set an agenda that might hit a little off out there when you use your investment. It is the same that applies when we talk about the prices that are, so how can we go in and support something there? It's market prices. A large part of this is not just taxes and VAT. A large part of it is, after all, about the fact that it is the market that affects prices. If these prices are going to be like this for a long time, we're going to have to do something structural, so you can't just send a check. It can be very good to get, but what about when you've used that check? So what's next? After all, it is important that we do something so that energy consumption is reduced. After all, we are sorry that the housing job scheme has been abolished, because it was precisely something that could help to support the fact that these green investments were also made in the home. So all in all, we have to say that when we look at energy, it is almost the most exciting rapporteur area to have, because it includes foreign policy, domestic policy, social policy, but indeed climate policy; for it is, of course, but there is also a great deal else. We have made a small adoption text in relation to the question here, and I will just read it out (on behalf of DF): Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that climate challenges and our energy dependence on fossil fuels require faster action. The Danish Parliament recognises that the government has set high energy targets, but notes that there is a lack of concrete action and long-term planning for the expansion of renewable energy, electrification and energy efficiency improvement. In this light, the Danish Parliament is concerned that too little VE is currently being set up in Denmark due to the uncertainty about future tariffs and slow approval procedures for Denmark to become a net exporter of green energy by 2030. Therefore, as part of the ongoing negotiations on Denmark, the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to present a concrete plan for developing and securing the future of the electricity network, which will ensure a good framework for investments by RE-settingers with a guarantee of the tariff payment, as well as ensuring that energy prices, including petrol, diesel, electricity and gas, do not run out of control, and to submit proposals for financing the expansion, which will allow Denmark's climate targets and contribute to the EU's security of supply by 2030. V 99).
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130550	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the text has been received and will be included in the further negotiations. There is a request for a brief comment. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130557	Thank you very much for your speech. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Morten Messerschmidt, has previously had so little doubt about the 70-percent objective and whether it could now be a little too expensive and hasty, when you run into challenges along the way with first corona and now also an energy policy situation which has changed a lot. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the Danish People's Party is 100% committed to the 70-percent target.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130636	We are always on the target of the agreements that are being made. But we also have to say: is it ideology, or is it because we want to achieve it? We want to achieve the goal and we also want to achieve it in the right way. And that is why it is important that when we stand there on 31 December 2029 and perhaps lack a little bit, we should not panic. We must do everything we can to achieve our 70-percent target by 2030, and we must work for that. But it is just getting closer and closer, and we can see that some of the prerequisites we had in relation to technology development and other things have gone a little slower than we expected. So maybe it's more like that to say that we want to do it, but can we do it a little bit later? Yeah, it might be, and maybe we'll have to talk about it. But we will achieve the goal, and more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130722	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130724	Okay, thank you for that answer, and also for the adoption text. I certainly share the rapporteur's wish that we should have more renewable energy. Does the rapporteur see that the windmill ceiling may be an obstacle in this context now that the rapporteur himself stands on the platform and expresses a desire for us to have more renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130748	No, I cannot actually do that, and it has to be said that with the energy prices that we now have, it has never been more attractive than now to invest in, for example, setting up wind turbines. And that's why it has to be now. I know it's a little caricatured, but let's say you're looking at some of the windmills in the province. Then there's a windmill 50 meters tall, and there's a farmer looking at it and saying, "It's really very good that windmill." After all, it is they who have to leave, and then there will have to be a lot more efficient wind turbines. And that's why you have to remember that the windmill ceiling is in number, it's not on kilowatts, and we have a lot of run-out wind turbines now, which should be removed. And then we need to set up some modern and more efficient wind turbines.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130825	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130829	Well, we don't have such a tough control of where there must be wind turbines or not. In other words, once a windmill is legally set up and the owners think it makes a good profit, they may think that it should be extended for a long time. Now I know that the rapporteur knows about old cars. There are also some who can maintain an older mill so that it can spin on. Then we get into the fact that there are some of those small mills that remain, because there are some who make a little money from them and think it is sensible. So I think sticking to the windmill ceiling is a little too bad, because I would rather expect us to have a demand that all municipalities contribute to the development of renewable energy. I think that would be more flexible. I know of municipalities where they have not really been able to get a wind turbine switch, but then they feel obliged to be positive about some solar cells coming up. If the Danish People's Party does not agree to change the wind turbine ceiling, then it will be blocking the expansion of renewable energy, which I could hear in this way being prioritised in the adoption text. Does the rapporteur not see that there is a dilemma in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602130935	There may be a dilemma, but there is also a tool, because then the small inefficient windmill will have to be capitalised. In other words, once we get out, where we say that the ceiling is actually starting to become a challenge, we have to buy into the market. And then you have to remember, like with old cars, that there are also some old wind turbines. It is windmills with gearboxes; it is windmills where you have not had the same technology development compared to windmill blades, i.e. a product that noises more than what we are used to today, with newer mills. So we also see this as an opportunity to phase out some of the mills that are not appropriate, either in relation to nature and the environment, but also in relation to the energy that they can produce. There are simply some who will get a bid on those mills, we expect, in other words, to get them torn down to give room to some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602131022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602131023	I think we need an analysis of this. I can also hear that KL is out airing, that you would like to have some energy islands on land, and I can see sense in that too. For sometimes those wind turbines have been placed close to the municipality limit so as not to bother many of your own citizens. So I actually think we should try to rethink it, and then I would hope that the rapporteur would be a little open to the idea that this windmill ceiling might have to be modelled a little. You can do other things than abolish it. I think that there are some places in the country where it would be good to get more wind turbines up, but I do not think that we have the tool to ensure that those smaller mills are pulled down.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602131103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602131103-2	You always have to be ready to discuss things if there is something sensible on the table. This is how we feel in the Danish People's Party, namely that those who say something sensible are the ones we want to listen to, and it doesn't really matter where you come from. So we do not want to be dismissive of that. But what is important to us is that there is no pressure that now you can't say no to something, because then you are for something else, that is, the rhetoric that says that if you don't say yes to a windmill in the backyard, it is because you are for Putin's gas. At least that's where a windmill ceiling is nice to have if you get all the way out there. I hope we don't. We would be happy to have a debate on that. But as a starting point, we are quite happy with the windmill ceiling, which we were also part of negotiating back then.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602131142	Thank you, sir. René Christensen and to the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Free Greens, and that is Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602131158	Thank you. What has happened here over the past year in many ways. In the area of climate change, the civil service and the parties to the agreement have been busy working and making political agreements. The only problem is that these agreements aren't good enough. We still have huge energy consumption and a huge climate footprint, and it is going so creepy slowly to change it. We in the Free Greens have always called out that we should and could do more on climate and energy, that we could set higher ambitions and goals for ourselves and achieve them if we wanted to. We have always said that Denmark can do more, and now the government also says that Denmark can do more. In fact, there have been two political proposals with the same title. The problem is that they are not good enough, because Denmark can do even more. Together we can do even more, and we need to be able to do even more and we can. All of a sudden, with the war in Ukraine, we see how much can be done politically, as long as we think it is important enough. We do not want to fund Putin's war machine, and the government suddenly has the ambition that we should soon be free of Russian gas. The only problem is that those ambitions are not good enough either. Why do we have to wait so long to get rid of Russian gas and coal and oil? Why should it be replaced with oil and gas from our own and others The kind of oil and gas is still coal black. Why will we continue to fire up during the climate collapse and global warming? Can we not start to think that the climate is important enough to do everything about it? There are a lot of things in this energy policy statement that I could do, but I would like to mention a few things. First, a positive perspective: it is extremely important that the focus has now been on the fact that we really need to exploit the wind resources on a much larger scale, as we saw at the small summit in Esbjerg. But there are also things in the energy policy statement that do not work well enough. We cannot count biomass as CO2 and CTS should not count in reductions, and we in the Free Greens will put forward a proposal on this in the autumn. We need to phase out oil, coal and gas much, much faster. We need to take drastic steps and prioritise the scarce energy from the renewable, real sources that we have at our disposal. This means that we need to talk about what non-social critical industries we have, which must be paused or reduced or closed down. We would like to see a great effort on wave energy, where we have some types of wind energy that are actually close to having to be used. It works, and we can produce them ourselves. One of Denmark's leading climate scientists, Sebastian Merrild, has also called out about this not long ago. We need to focus more on energy efficiency and serious energy savings also where it can hurt, but where it actually changes something, and preferably it has to change something. We need to cut down on our consumption and consume smarter; we cannot just keep producing more and more. Renewable energy is also not free to produce. Every time we produce, we use raw materials, and we also have them in limited quantities. I have a text for adoption which I would like to read on behalf of the Free Greens: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that energy policy measures have been launched over the last year addressing key elements and challenges of Danish energy and supply policy. In view of the fact that the latest research raises serious doubts about Denmark's climate legislation with the ambition to reach 70%. reduction in 2030 and net zero by 2050 is sufficient to comply with the Paris Agreement, and in view of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the Folketing instructs the government to act even faster in the green transition of the supply and energy sector. The government is also required to set annual binding reduction targets before the end of the year, which at least follow a linear development curve with the goal of Denmark becoming 100%. supplied by renewable energy sources (e.g. Biomass) in 2028 and indicate a plan for how this is to be done with already known means of action. • • • • • • • • Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602131645	Thank you to the rapporteur and the proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602131707	Thank you, President. Energy policy is two things: it is energy production and it is energy consumption. And in the alternative, we believe that we must look at energy consumption; we must save more energy than we do. We have come to be a society that over-consumers energy. I think we've gotten used to the fact that somehow there's enough of it, and there's a whole lot of places where we might grease a little with the energy without thinking about it. So we spend many of our waking hours in the Alternative thinking about how we can try to reduce energy consumption. There are many low-hanging fruits, for example. to slow down on the roads or make car-free Sundays, as I saw as a kid in Risskov, where on Sundays there was absolutely quiet. There wasn't a car on the road, or that means there was one it was a taxi that I saw in a whole day. And I went to my father's house and said, "We walked in the middle of the road, 'cause I only saw one car for a whole day. Then he said, "Listen to me, there's only one person to drive you down." Then I walked into the sidewalk. But it was amazing to experience this silence and the car-free Sundays. Delebilist is also one thing that can reduce energy consumption. A lot of us are sitting in separate cars. Well, cars often have five or six seats, and you can sit some more in one car and reduce the number of cars by driving together a little. But otherwise there's also a lot of energy frizz that I think we've gotten used to just walking and watching. If you go through a city in the evening after the darkness has fallen on, there are many offices and buildings where the light just burns or where there is at least half lighting. There are many places where there is heat and where there is heat. In general, I believe that there are many places where we, without really thinking about it, are greedy with a lot of energy. I will make a post on Facebook, where I encourage the Danes to send in examples of energy frizz when they see them. Take a picture of the office building where there is light in the middle of the night, or a place where there is warmth, or all sorts of other situations where we, not for an evil heart, but just because we don't think about it, are actually greedy with the energy! And I know it doesn't make a huge change to turn off the lights in one office building. It's a small thing, but it's the case with little things that when there's enough of them, they start to mean something in the main. With regard to really large savings, which are low-hanging fruits, I think we should look at the recommendations of the Climate Citizenhood. And there is one thing that has really fallen into my eyes and that I have also talked to them about. It is that if that is the case, you raise the energy class two levels of the 43 million. m2 of public buildings that we have in Denmark, then you can save 250,000-300,000 tonnes of CO2 That's big numbers. I know we are in the process, but that is an exciting way to go down, because in a few years it will be the millions of tonnes we are talking about when we talk about our 70-percent target. Whatever the case, however, it is clear that we cannot save ourselves only to achieve our 70-percent target. Energy is needed, and there are also lots of things that are low-hanging fruits that we are all talking about. In the alternative, we got 20 million. kr. through this year's Finance Act for Energy Communities, to advise on, to help people set up solar cells, wind turbines or heat pumps. And that is where I think we should be much better at involving the population in producing energy. It's a little easier, too. They have it in Hvide Sande. It is now a well-known story... where two giant windmills are folk mills, which are paid for by the people. That means, of course, that they provide power, but they also generate profits for the local community, and nutrition in small communities is of course important. So it's a little easier to go and look at a windmill and listen to it when you know that it might mean that we keep the school and the nursing home in town and the nourishment at all, and that you can continue living in White Sande. So there's folk mills, and there's heat pumps, and there's geothermal. I think we should raise the amount that supports people out there in Denmark in making energy communities quite enormous. I think we should put 1⁄2 billion. kr. off to it. We have also discussed today how we support local energy production and energy supply. One of the really big things that it is hard not to praise the government for is the Esbjerg Agreement. It is a little unclear what it is actually about, but it is clear at least that it will increase the capacity of offshore winds in the North Sea ten times, and that should be enough to provide 330 million European households with green currents. This will mean that Denmark will become part of a green world fire in energy and power, and it is clear that it is a fantastic plan. It is in a long time, but it is already now that we are going to talk about how good it is that we are going to be the world leader in the production of green electricity and, on the one hand, the revenue. Well, it's a huge adventure; it's almost a new oil adventure. There's going to be an unbelievable profit out of this, and that's where we're gonna have to be smart, like them, for example. has been in Norway, and ensure that very much of that profit goes to the state, i.e. that it goes to Denmark, goes to welfare, instead of it goes into the pockets of multinational companies that barely pay taxes in Denmark. So in the alternative, we are incredibly interested in that agreement. I would also like to ask the Minister if he can reveal some details. Where are those mills supposed to stand? Should they all be in the Danish part of the North Sea? Is it four countries that have joined forces to produce a large amount of energy in the Danish part of the North Sea? What's in it for us? To what extent can we ensure that the profits go to Denmark? So all in all, we love such amazing green energy productions. However, in the alternative, we also believe that we need to learn to save much more on energy, otherwise we just need to find new ways to provide a society with energy that already consumes too much energy. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602132345	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment and it is for Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602132351	Thank you for a very good speech. I'd say I take my bike every day and drive past that whole line of cars, 10 km with people sitting alone. There's clearly something to come for. However, I think that the rapporteur is addressing something very important, and that is energy efficiency and how much savings we have, both of money and of CO2 The figures are there and there are analyses, compared to if we get raised the energy label standard in the municipalities, in other words how much can be saved. And the rapporteur also made us more aware of the figures. But what is the rapporteur's position? Because we have strength positions, and we know what we can achieve. What's it gonna be like, so we're gonna get a little more pace on this energy efficiency improvement? I am glad that we got the 3% energy efficiency improvement rate through the other day, but it has also taken only one year. So what else is needed now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602132445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602132447	It takes us to put money in, for example. the finance law on a larger scale to help with energy renovation of e.g. public buildings. It's a giant ripe fruit that can be picked immediately. As I said, we are up in some rather interesting figures here, which quickly turn into millions of tonnes of CO2 saved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602132508	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the alternative. There were no more brief comments and all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak in this debate have spoken. So now I can give the floor to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602132529	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate. The green transition in Denmark is quite rapid, so strong that you can almost breathe from time to time. We would probably not quite believe this if we had only as a source the contributions of the various rapporteurs here around the table. It must be said to the rapporteur's praise that these are at least modest people. It is not rapporteurs who have a very great need to boast about their own efforts. So when it isn't, I'd like to use this opportunity to give you a little credit instead. More than 50 agreements have been made in less than 3 years, the vast majority of them have been broad, so everyone is involved, and these are very comprehensive agreements. We are quite close to being able to show all the way to 70%. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling When I took over the ministry, there's this séance where the outgoing minister is to give a gift to the incoming minister, and there I don't know if any of you remember what I got from Lars Christian Lilleholt, my predecessor. I got such a little Harry Potter figure, and the symbolism, as he explained in his speech to me, was that you're going to need the wand he's got, because that 70-percent objective isn't an objective you can achieve without magic, it can't be achieved with ordinary rational instruments, those instruments don't exist. When he said that, it was because, among other things, the Climate Council, which is very ambitious by nature, had said that they supported 70%, but that they could not actually point out how to come up with the last 10 percentage points, because the means available at that time would not be enough. It was not 10 years ago or 15 years ago or 40 years ago, but it was only under 3 years ago, and now we are where we are no longer in doubt as to whether we reach the 70%. We can discuss which roads are best and most rational. Some believe that we need to reduce consumption, reduce production, let companies, sugar factories, cement factories and other things move to other countries, others think that and it is fortunately most people think that it is probably very clever that we are meeting the requirements of the Climate Act, namely that the transition we are making is a transition that must be made taking into account the equality of our society, the competitiveness of our society, jobs, a healthy market economy, a healthy public economy, because only if we do so can we be the pioneer country that we want to be. I think I mentioned, as an answer to one of the questions put to me at the outset, that only yesterday we were ranked as No. 1 on a list made by Yale and Columbia University, where they compare the world's countries over a wide range of scientific parameters, and this is so broadly sustainability policy. But that we're no. 1, is primarily because of our energy policy and our conversion of our energy policy to renewable energy. It is clear that this is a process that has been going on since the 1970s, but which has really speeded up over the last few years, and if you look at what is waiting for the future, these are some figures that I think for most people are almost so big that they can be a little difficult to relate to. In other words, the agreement we have now signed with Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium will revolutionise not only Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium, but all of Europe. What we four countries have to deliver is half of what the whole of Europe needs half of four countries, three of which are quite small. It is extremely ambitious, and the way we want to do it is to build on the Danish example and experience. We are the first country in the world to have decided to make an energy island like the one we have decided in the North Sea. Whether it will be exactly the model or we find out, because we are the first to have done so, that there were other smarter, different or additional models you can make, is what we are investigating and discussing with our neighbours. Initially, in addition to the Esbjerg Declaration, we signed a number of bilateral agreements. One was with Germany, which is about coordinating our hydrogen infrastructure, the other was with Holland in terms of connecting them to the North Sea, and the third was with Belgium, where we closed an agreement that they are now included in the North Sea project. So it is certain that they do, and thus we will be delivering green electricity to Belgium at first, but later also to a large number of other countries, and it is clear that the whole major project is based on (1) supplying green electricity to other countries, but we (2) also have to deliver what the green electricity can be converted into by electrolysis, namely liquid fuels which can be used in our transport sector and probably also for other purposes in the future. It is clear that when we go into a project that can deliver green power to 230 million households, it is a little more than we need ourselves, and that is why, as many of you have said here from the platform, there are also very good opportunities for us to make a good business out of this and also very many jobs. Every time you make 1 GW, the industry estimates that it creates just under 15,000 jobs. We're going to make less 35 GW in Denmark, and it's a lot of jobs besides those we already have. All of this could not be done if we had not had the political framework conditions, that is, support where support is needed, that is, a change in rules where there is a need for a change in rules so that things become more flexible, that is, requirements in the form of regulation in third places. And for those who have specifically asked about what is really in the power-to-x agreement, where several of you have been involved in making the agreement, so I think it's probably rhetorical, because you want me to give you a little credit for this from the platform, so I'd like to do that, so there's a goal of 4-6 GW that makes us one of the countries in the world that has the greatest goal. It is quite good that we are not one of the largest countries in the world, to say the least. What we are going to deliver in addition to the money that has been set aside for aid, which is quite a large amount, is, after all, something much more important: the framework conditions. If you ask out there on the market, the industry asks, then the reason why they have given us a lot of praise and we have really got a lot of praise for that agreement • not so much money. They are nice to have and they can help kick it off. I hope that we also agree to tell the taxpayers; when we spend over 1 billion. kr., and if you add it all together, even a few billions, to something, it is of course also because we are quite sure that it will have an effect but the most important thing is actually the framework conditions we have changed. And what is that? Yes, it is the possibility of setting local tariffs, it is the possibility of making direct lines, something that violates our normal principle of collective supply, but which is necessary to do so in the scale we need here, and that is what makes me think that in this area we are going to be leading, especially in view of the fact that we are now expanding as massively as we are doing in relation to renewable energy, because it is renewable energy that is the prerequisite for it all to be possible. So it is true, as Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll said, that Poland made a strategy that was faster than Denmark, but I can then ask whether one thinks that we should exchange the Danish strategy with the Polish strategy or, as a matter of fact, with any other country in the world. It is not, in fact, a matter of making a strategy if the strategy we are developing is neither worked out, ambitious nor binding. We have put together a strategy which is not only well worked out, serious and binding, but which also means that, together with the countries I mentioned earlier, and indeed a large number of other countries, we are actually able to start attracting investment, and that is why right now on the drawing board around Denmark there are lots of projects going on, both huge and smaller. It was so with many of the pools we had set off, both in relation to CCS and ptx and other things, that when we made them, they were some where we were a little worried about whether there would be a draw on them, and now we have to hope, and we have to meet again, and what if they weren't sought? Now it is the case that we all go and say that it is exciting what some of the solutions are winning, because so many are now competing for it, and that is of course also one of the reasons why the two world-leading universities Yale and Columbia University point to it. Now it is such a reasonable basement analysis where they look primarily at what we have carried out. If you also included what we have plans and ambitions for, then it is clear that we would be even better. However, the things we have already done have been done in a way that has not damaged our competitiveness, which has not cost jobs that have not led to any more inequality, but rather the opposite. I think there were some countries in the report where, if you just looked at how their reductions went down, you could argue that it was really good climate policy, for example. in a number of developing countries. But if you look down on the figures, the fall in emissions is due to an economic recession and major crises in those countries. This is probably not the way to make climate policy. The way to make climate policy is structural change, structural change, which actually changes our society. Are they going to take time? Yeah. Is this gonna take a very long time? No, actually, it doesn't. So, the technologies that we are going to apply now, some of which will be commercial and in progress by 2025, are those that many have called hockey poles. The paradox is that if you are going to talk about a hockey stick at all, then it is more the old technologies, for example. offshore wind farms. It's taken 71⁄2 years, and we're the fastest in the world to do it. In many other places, most of the world, it takes between 10 and 13 years. So it's a hockey stick, and so we're way beyond 2030. But the things that we're being accused of are hockey poles, CCS, ptx, CCUS, i.e. you catch CO2 It's the science we apply, and we're getting it on scale and down in price in a way, so it's actually going to play a role within quite, quite a few years. We can afford to be quite proud of this across the political parties in Denmark. Having said that, we are not resting on our laurels. Of course, we are already engaged in negotiations on green heat, out with the gas and the oil, in with much more district heating, which of course must be based on renewable energy sources, in places where district heating cannot be obtained, it is of course geothermal, which of course will often be associated with district heating, but it could also be individual heat pumps, much more renewable energy, a quadrupling of capacity by 2030. And now we've talked a lot about breaking hockey poles, but that might also mean that some of you will also have to crack your stick horses, because we probably can't make that much more energy without someone discovering it. Therefore, taking into account both nature and citizens, significant expansions of our renewable energy networks must be made both at sea and on land if we are to achieve this. In addition to that on land, we talk up to 4 GW extra at sea by 2030 and saw the huge expansion on the other side of 2030. That's what I was going to say this time. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602133809	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. Before I give access to brief remarks, I just have a service information: The use of you, you and yours is also directly to. Now the President was very spacious. So the Minister knows that now. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first one's for sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602133834	Thank you, President. I actually understand that it must be a little strange when, at so many international conferences, the Minister sees so much praise for our climate objectives, for our ambitions and for the path we are moving towards our goals, and when he comes home he sees a huge concern, hunger strikers on the stairs of the Folketing and people who stick to the asphalt, that is, a real, really great concern. I think it has something to do with us being a country that has a gigantic climate pattern. Well, I consume just as much CO2 so I think it's because we're starting from such a bad position, and even if we're good, it's hard to get down there where we're going with the discharge. I think that is part of the concern. Then I think that part of the concern is that more and more people are in doubt as to whether the 70-percent objective is enough. Well, if Denmark is going to live up to its share, compared to the fact that the temperature should only rise by 1.5 degrees, that is, if we are going to make our tiny part, but not less, then we actually have to go up to a greater saving than 70%. I'm seeing more and more scientists say that. It's not to be polemical or just to be ungrateful, but what does the Minister think? Can there be anything about us having to raise that target at some point if we are to do our part in meeting the goal that the temperature on the ground can only rise by 1.5 degrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602133958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134000	It is said that one understands, if I think it is a little strange, that Denmark is considered a pioneering country in the world, while there is so much criticism here in Denmark. I don't really know if I think that's weird. I was once a young, committed and concerned person, and I can easily understand that feeling. Because I'm still away engaged and worried, but I'm just not young anymore. I went into politics because I care about this area. Back then, almost many years ago, there weren't many of us who did it. There weren't so many people to demonstrate with. There you stood reasonably alone, if that's what you wanted. But there's something I don't understand. I do not understand the rapporteurs, who have been involved in making the agreements themselves, the rapporteurs, whose job it is to sit all day and read thick reports. Some of the best climate scientists in the world from Yale University and Columbia University have sat down and they have no political motivation to say that Denmark is doing well; they only have one motivation, and it's about identifying best practice and identifying the countries they think others should follow as an example and pointing out to us and saying that if they could give advice to all other countries in the world, it would be that you should look at what these countries at the top do. The rapporteurs know that. So I do not understand why all those who have helped to make the agreements in Denmark and who have brought us there say: that is not good enough at all; we should do something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134124	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134125	Well, I can explain that because that's what I'm worried about. I mean, it's, for example, as I said, about the fact that I'm not sure if we're going to be a pioneer, and I'm proud that we're going to be doing enough to make ours that the temperature in the world doesn't rise by more than 1.5 degrees. There are more and more voices, including qualified voices, that say that we have to raise the target, perhaps from 70%. 79 per cent. 80%. And then I get worried if that is how more and more votes are saying: it is not certain that even the ambitious climate law is enough. I said before that I consume just as much CO2 It also worries me that we start from such an incredibly high CO2 which is why it's going to be hard to get it down. I think this type of concern is real enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134213	Well, I think there is a perspective on which we have to agree, and that is, of course, that even if we shut Denmark down tomorrow, it would not be possible to measure it out in the atmosphere. So that's not why we do it. It is not Denmark in isolation that influences the climate. When we set targets as ambitious as we do for ourselves, it is because we hope that we can influence others to do the same in two ways. One is to show that one can be a rich, equal, competitive and good society while doing so. That's also why we don't just say 95%, 90%. or 85%. 'Cause we know we're gonna take these things out. That wouldn't be smart. The second is that when we set these goals for ourselves, we develop solutions that the rest of the world can use. That is why our prints are far greater in India, China, Vietnam and in the 19 countries of the world with which we cooperate in regulatory cooperation, using our technology, our know-how to help them reduce their emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134311	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134315	What, then, is the outcome of the debate? It seems that no text of adoption will be adopted on the basis of this question. It is not always the texts that seem to change the whole world. But if you were to pick up something from the debate here, I would say that I think there is reason for the Minister to keep his Harry Potter staff, because we have to move on. I think there is a great deal of work to be done by the government in putting forward a green budget proposal, because when I look back on the last three years, we have had to fight for those things that have then come in and that have made it possible to call it a green finance law. It could be liberating if it were the government that came up with a green Finance Act, because then we should try to see if we could not make it even greener. So I'd like to know if this is something the government has in process. The other is this around the windmill ceiling. Well, I think we need to look at it with respect for the agreement that is there, and then look at what can be adjusted on the future in order to ensure that there is a great deal of progress in the development of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134421	I think that we have made some very good financial laws together, too, which have led to real reductions. When it is not usually in connection with the Finance Act in Denmark that you make the very big climate agreements, it is due to a large number of things. One is that it is a completely different type of much longer-term financing that we need, which we should like to find separately for finance law. The second is that we would very much like to make very broad agreements when it comes to energy policy in Denmark in particular, and since it has not been possible in Denmark to make very broad agreements on the Finance Act, it does impose certain restrictions. I believe and hope that what we are going to discuss here before the summer break is what we are already doing on the green heating element, but also what is about developing renewable energy is something that has a character that can be broad and that can be what really brings us that next very big step forward on the green agenda. And the fact that it is not a financial law agreement does not mean that it is an ordinary energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134527	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134528	Okay, well, then we'll have to come up with something purple, revolutionary, green to the finance bill that's coming, and then take energy policy in another way. Now it is planned that we will have to agree something on a four-fold increase in renewable energy, according to my calendar before the summer break, and I have noted that the government would come up with something in May, and I have not registered that. When is the government gonna come up with a proposal about that quadrupling of renewable energy, because I'd like to be prepared for those negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134559	No, I do not think it can be said that nothing happened in May when it came to a government proposal. So, we came with Denmark can more II... where we are talking about a quadrupling of energy on land and 35 GW in the long term on land and 1-4 GW further beyond the quadruple we have already decided, at sea. So there's plenty of playout in it. It is clear that we will have to go into a lot more detail in a negotiation process, and we will be doing so very soon. I hope, of course, that we can conclude negotiations on green heat first and also very much like a tax reform, but if we cannot do that, we must do it in parallel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134637	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134640	Thank you. Now I have not had time to read the report from Yale University and Colombia University, but on the other hand I know that last Tuesday the Economic Council came up with a report criticising the government for having a unclear attitude towards our CO2 and that means that a rapid and effective change is being slowed down slightly compared to what it could be. And then they also say that there are some erroneous assumptions about the leakage effect, that is to say to move emissions abroad if we shut something down. What is at stake from the government is that it is not a uniform CO2 There are exceptions, and one of the exceptions is Aalborg Portland. Then the government believes that the tax rebate for Aalborg Portland and other large CO 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134759	There were many imprecise things in it, so I hardly know where to start, but I could perhaps start with a little overall consideration and say that I do not think that the questioner is of the opinion that it is the Environmental Economic Council that we should just put our policy on. Because if it was, we would have to, for example. the 70-percent objective, and then we should use flexible mechanisms to achieve the objectives we now have. For the Environmental Economic Council, it is not rational for a society to have such a point target as we have with the 70-percent objective. So I do not think there are many of the points made by the Environmental Economic Council, which are very much in line with the views of the questioner, at least normally. Having said that, and from your perspective, even a blind chicken can find grain, it may be, that is how the questioner thinks, and therefore, of course, I also respond directly to it. It is not a discount; on the contrary, this type of company, mineralogic companies, is going to pay more than some other categories of company. But it's a cut in a tax. One could theoretically have chosen to increase further in order to avoid leakage effects. This is not something we have come up with; it is something we have asked a group of experts with very skilled economists to advise us about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134921	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134922	Thank you. An imprecise question then gives an imprecise answer. But isn't the government interested in listening to the Economic Councils and the points they make?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602134937	I do not think I can do it much more precisely than diving directly into what is being asked and then answer why it is not right. But yes, of course we're listening. However, it is clear that when we have set up a committee of experts with previous and present experts and the wisest heads we have at our disposal in the country, we have obviously listened to them. It is on the basis of one of their models that we are now presenting our proposal. Then it is clear that the details can always be discussed, and that is what we are doing in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135014	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135018	Thank you. After all, it is good that on behalf of everyone, the Minister thinks that we should be more optimistic, that the rapporteurs are doing a good job and that the world is looking positively at us, and we also have a strong climate diplomacy. But we have an appeal. I understand that when you as a researcher sit out there looking at the high climate targets, and there are also many fine goals • there are also high school students who do SRP tasks, I have to do some of them. Read one more tomorrow about the government's climate plan... they think we're gonna get to grips with them, and we're also gonna deliver on it. But the truth is, we have a very high CO2 t. A huge print is still being put away, and we have little difficulty in seeing that we have got closer to the goal of expanding the RE, and our energy prices are still extremely high, and we have no alternatives. So I think that's what's gonna be our appeal. This is the case, especially because we have companies that want energy efficiency, power-to-x, wind energy islands, etc. That is what we are in now, and action needs to be taken, and I hope that some experts will one day look at what we have delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135136	But that's what the experts are assessing us on, isn't it? Now the Climate Council has also been highlighted several times, as if it were someone who was extremely critical of the government. Have you read the Climate Council report for this year? Are we in the finish line? No, we're not, but they say big progress. It is very well described in the government's climate programme, which we come up with once a year, i.e. the Climate Council's assessment of it, also in international reports. Last year the world came to NGOs, which by God should not be said to have a political interest in producing some countries better than what is right. There is, of course, implicit in the criticism here that either these researchers from two of the world's best universities and the association of hundreds of NGOs in the world are stupid and do not understand what we are doing, have not analysed it properly, do not use a methodology that is right, or are politically motivated and are in the pocket of the government. Neither is true, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135252	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135254	But is that what the Minister says, then, that it is all of us here who are wrong? If everyone else thinks that things are going great and that things are going fast enough and that we are leading, then it must be the rapporteurs here who are wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135311	Let me put it this way: just mention three countries in the world so that they do better than Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135318	It is difficult when a minister asks a question and the person who has to answer that question cannot answer. But I will now give the floor to another questioner, and that is Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135332	Thank you. I welcome the fact that, after all, the Minister praises the rapporteurs for having helped to make some agreements. I note, then, that the Minister is of the opinion that the rapporteur says that we are in fact critical. I would like to turn it around and say that we are offering the Minister a little help. Because when I look at it, I have to say that some of the things that we meet very often and the minister is also our EU minister in some context in this area... are state aid rules that mean that some of the processes take a very long time. Does the Minister agree that the speed of decision-making is one of the challenges we face at present? I have sometimes said that right now we have gone from a situation where we go from peace to war, where we go from evolution in the development of the energy system to revolution. Does it not require that we look at our regime differently in terms of how we plan things? And I would like to ask the Minister there because we have had him in consultation on solar cells: what does it look like in the future when we look at the fact that there are more ministerial areas involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135448	What I actually praised the rapporteurs for was that when we sit in the negotiating room, I never experience the same pessimism. I never see an indication that it was a bad deal. I never understand that we cannot be familiar with this in the world at all and things are going too slowly. If I did so, it would also be a little strange for the agreements to be included at all. We have made over 50 agreements together, which really produce results for Denmark. On the specific issue, I would like to say that it is clear that it is a main focus that must go stronger. Although we are among the countries in the world where things are going hardest, for example. By making offshore wind farms, 71⁄2 years is too long to create a offshore wind farm. It may take twice the time somewhere else, but we can't use that much. We need to get started, and we need to show others how to do it. Much of this is linked to EU legislation, which is why we have also made a massive effort in relation to the European Union to get them on board. Fortunately, there are good opportunities in the REPower EU, which is the new proposal that was presented on the same day that we signed the Esbjerg Declaration, where also Ursula von der Leyen was in Esbjerg to present it. We think we could go further and are analysing how we can improve that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135559	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135601	Well, sir. Minister, what I am just trying to say is that in the Left we are actually optimists, but we are a little pessimists on the short track because we think things are going slowly and out in the market they are a little nervous about not being able to see what kind of regime they have to plan into and invest in. And there it really is that we are making our small contribution by saying that we want to be involved in discussing how we can speed up these processes without harming people and nature etc., but that we are making it go more smoothly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135641	There we are in complete agreement, and that is also what we are going to be negotiating here towards the summer holidays. There it is, then, just that I say that it is not enough just to make a good intention, even if we share it, to get the EU to make the rules a little more flexible. We are trying to do that, we want to do so, and there is certainly something in our own rules that we can make more flexible. I also think that we will just have to look at the things that may have been a little more controversial, the windmill ceiling, the law on plans, things that, if you are to stay in the questioner's imagery, may well appear as some considerations that seem so proportionally small compared to the two other huge crises we are facing: the energy security crisis and the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135725	The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135728	First of all, thank you for that, yes, there was almost a song in what the Minister brought: Remember to be happy about what you are a part of. And I agree with the Minister in that respect. And so I agree with this, too, that no matter how fast you run, you never run fast enough, even if you run ahead and look backwards at the others, you don't run fast enough. It's a strange competition to actually have. But in relation to the fast running thing, I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party have the same thing about us lifting our finger a little bit. We must not make the sins of the past again. Well, why was it that they straightened out all the streams and made them straight? It was because there was a food crisis. Now you had to produce some food, and it had to be quick, and you had to be effective, and it could not go fast enough. Then you did it, you had a lot of food made. But what did it do? It affected biodiversity and everything else, and now we are in the process of correcting it. We must not do that again because we are under pressure and must run so fast that we do not even look back. Therefore, when everyone is pushing for speed, does the Minister not agree that there are limits to how fast it can go? Because it is no good that some people are standing there looking at us in 30 years and asking: What the hell were they doing back then when they ran so fast?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135838	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135840	Completely. I think that's an obvious point, especially when we're trying to be among those who take the lead and do some things like the first ones in the world. An example of this is energy island. In other words, it is true that it has been delayed in the tendering process. Why? Yeah, it's because we've gotten smarter. It turned out that we good people who sat here in the often late hours of the night negotiating about these things weren't quite as smart as those who actually have to deliver the solution out there. So there are some problems that we now have to take into account. We'll do that. The good news is that what we have become wiser will probably enable us to make up for that delay and perhaps even make it faster in the end. But it is clear that when we spend very large billions from the common fund, when we make decisions that lock us decades into the future, and when we even have an ambition that many others should like to follow our examples, we have to think about how we do things. You can hurry slowly sometimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135947	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602135948	As a final comment, I would like to say that this is precisely what is interesting, because the Minister said it very well from Parliament's platform. Although we stopped it all in Denmark tomorrow, it may not be what saves the whole world, but it is our technologies that must save the whole world. That is why it is important. Even if we run fast, what we do must also have a high quality if someone needs to use Denmark as the showcase that we agree we should be. Well, when we did the 70-percent objective, it was the show window that drove us together across parties, because if we can solve it, others will look at us and say that we will also use that solution in our country. That is why it can be said that speed is important, but quality is even more important. And that's also why when we talk leakage and all the other things, that's what's going to count. And that is also where we create growth and employment, but that is also where we create the most for the climate if we provide the solutions that others can also use in the future. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602140039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602140039-2	I fully agree with that. And that's what we're about to do. Well, both when it comes to CO2 we're not there yet, where we can say exactly where it's going to be the weight. That is what is always the balancing approach. We are in such a hurry, and we would like to do things as quickly as possible; on the other hand, we are not as interested in putting all our eggs in a basket as it may then prove that we lose on the floor next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602140123	Thank you, Minister. Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply Thank you very much). There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 7 June 2022, as mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602140145	There is therefore no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 3 June 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
