ParlaMint-DK_20220322130006	The meeting is open. The first item on the agenda is Question Time with the Prime Minister, and I shall begin by giving the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130028	Thank you for that, President. On Thursday, it was 4 weeks ago that Putin launched his senseless and brutal attack on Ukraine. It has been four weeks since we woke up to a new security policy reality in Europe. The situation in Ukraine is becoming increasingly terrible. There are tough fights in several cities, bombs of residential blocks and hospitals, thousands of injured and killed civilians and more than 3 million Ukrainians on the run already now. On the Danish side, we have chosen to support the Ukrainian struggle... humanitarian with equipment and political. In the European Union, together with partners all over the world, we have adopted unprecedented sanctions, trade restrictions, financial restrictions and asset freezes. It's hit Putin hard. The Russian economy is isolated and pressured, and we are ready to do even more. The government is working for the toughest possible sanctions. In the European Union, we agree that we must make ourselves independent of Russian gas as soon as possible. Here, too, we work to make ourselves independent of Russian gas for the sake of climate, for the sake of our safety and now also for the sake of the Danes' wallet. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance presented three scenarios for the Danish economy in the light of the Russian crisis and the steeply rising prices of among others. energy. We are, of course, following developments closely, and we cannot escape the fact that a war on European soil will have serious consequences for all of us. We've agreed on one heat check. More is needed, and that is why we are currently looking at further measures, and the Minister for Climate Affairs has called for negotiations. The day after tomorrow, I am going to Brussels to an extraordinary NATO summit and to a European Council where President Biden of the United States is also taking part. Here we need to discuss how we can further support Ukraine, how we can further strengthen NATO's defence and our ability to deter Putin. The unity in Europe and across the Atlantic is our most important weapon against Putin's aggression, and there should be no doubt as to where Denmark stands. Denmark belongs in the heart of our own continent as far as the European Union is concerned and in the heart of the transatlantic with regard to NATO. I am therefore both proud and grateful for the agreement we have made on a new national compromise on Danish security policy. Thank you to the Left, thanks to the SF, thanks to the Radical Left and thanks to the Conservative People's Party for an amazingly intense debate and a result that we can all be proud of. By the way, I am also pleased that several parties have subsequently supported various parts of the agreement and the Christian Democrats on the whole agreement. We will allocate a total of 7 billion. kr. this year and next year to strengthen Denmark's defence and diplomatic efforts and to deal with the consequences of the Russian crisis. We have given each other hands on the fact that, with the forthcoming defence settlement, we will increase defence spending to 2%. of bnp for the benefit of both Denmark and our allies' security. Finally, we also agree to put the defence reserve to the vote on 1 June, where we would recommend that the Danes vote in favour of abolishing the reservation. Time requires unity and not reserved, cooperation and not isolation. The Russian crisis shows more than anything how important it is for Europe and the West to come ever closer together and take greater responsibility for our own security. And Denmark must always be ready to contribute without reservation, even in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130420	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we are going to discuss questions from the party leaders, and first it is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130428	Thank you for that, President. Putin's war machine has been rolling over Ukraine for a few months, the destruction and human suffering are getting worse day by day, and it is absolutely cruel. We must hit the war criminal Putin with the toughest possible sanctions together with our allies, and at the same time we must support Ukraine and take care of our own security. And that is why I am very pleased that, as a country, we have chosen to send arms to Ukraine, and I am pleased that a majority here in the Danish Parliament has adopted the special law which allows Ukrainians on the run an opportunity to start afresh in Denmark while waiting to return to their country. Then, with the national compromise, we have chosen to invest in our own security and take it seriously here in Europe; some will think it was about time, but thank you for working together on it. Because the war in Ukraine has changed the world. The war in Ukraine also changes things at home, and although we should not fear for our lives here, there are many Danes who care about the future. Right now, many Danes are looking at their private economy, and they are hit by quite violently rising energy prices. The government itself has said that the situation is acute, that it is very serious and that no one should go from house to house because you cannot pay your heating bill. Honestly to the government and the parties involved in the narrow agreement on heating: I think it helps everything, far too few Danes. And then it has also emerged that it will be 5-6 months before the money can be paid out, and I do not think that that is what can be called emergency aid. So can't the Prime Minister see that we need to get this money out now, so these people don't have to go from house to home?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130630	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130631	Yes, I can do that; I agree with everything that is being said. I am, of course, pleased that a majority has made an agreement on heating aid, and there is nothing that the contracting party would like more than the money to work as quickly as possible. There is some technical trouble associated with it, and one must try to solve that as well as one can at all. And then the climate minister has chosen to call for further negotiations, because it is already evident that the money that has been allocated is not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130704	Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130705	Yeah, excuse me, but some of this sounds kind of like a system response: you can't get the systems to operate faster. I mean, where there's a will, there's a way. We saw it about the national compromise that if we really want something, then it is actually us in here who decide, and so it is here. The Prime Minister and I will do the next term; we are privileged people sitting in here. There are very, very many people in the whole country and are very worried about this. This isn't just a matter of whether you can go on a summer vacation. This is a matter of whether you can stay. I think we owe these people an answer. I think we owe these people some help. We can't compensate for everything, but this is a hard blow that hits a lot of families and they get worried. So can't the Prime Minister push for this to be some money that comes out to work and gets out to work now and not only when it's also hot outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130802	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130803	I fully share the analysis. In the negotiations we have, we have to do everything we can to push for that. There are some things that need to be in place, including the legal framework, so that this can be done, and we cannot skip that. Then I think it is important to say 'and I was going to say almost no matter when you can get that infrastructure in place' that if there are families standing and in trouble, as is said here, that is, where you simply cannot afford to pay your rent, it must be possible to go down to your municipality and get temporary help. So we have to find a solution for those who are the most pressured. And then we must do everything we can to ensure that the necessary infrastructure is put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130849	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130850	Thank you. There are many people who are concerned about their private economy, and I understand that, because it is an unpredictable world we live in, and it is also for the economy. There are some trends which worry many people and which also worry me. And many Danes experience that among other things. The heating bill has become more expensive; you can see that petrol prices are rising almost every time you drive by and that the prices of groceries are also rising. There is inflation in our society. And we, as politicians, cannot counter all this; we cannot compensate for everything; we cannot promise that everything will be as it was before, because, as the Prime Minister says, it has consequences when the war criminal Putin chooses to invade a peaceful European country. But one of the things that we can influence is the tax that the Danes pay. So in the middle of all this uncertainty now that the Danes don't know how prices are developing, there's one thing that we can guarantee from in here, and that's that it won't be more expensive to be a Dane, on the tax ticket. So can we not shake hands with each other that for the rest of this parliamentary term we will not raise taxes for ordinary Danes who are worried about their private finances?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322130959	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131000	I fully share the concerns that many Danes are experiencing right now, among other things. in relation to the situation in Ukraine: what is this going to mean for our continent and for our security and our security structure in the Western world? It comes with a price. And it is true that we can already see it on the rising energy prices. The wheat is rising. We will certainly see other increases in the food sector too. Inflation is back in the whole of the European economy. And there may be even greater shocks, depending on how the situation in Ukraine develops. It comes with a price. It does, after all, when we decide to use now finally 2%. of our defense expenses. I think it is absolutely crucial in the discussion that we are actually doing what the President of the Left is doing today, namely being very honest that we will not be able to compensate for everything and certainly not one to one. To that extent, the shocks are too large. But we can do some targeted actions. And our assessment by the government is that what has been done is not enough yet and that is why we are following developments closely. I continue to feel that I have no desire to go and set up taxes, but I do not want to see a crisis in Ukraine lead me to agree to a tax freeze which, for example, can actually set the pace. a green tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131117	Thank you to the Prime Minister, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. We move on to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131127	Thank you. I would actually like to start by thanking the Prime Minister, but also the broad majority in the Folketing, for showing political leadership, while we are in a very serious security policy situation. Denmark is not alone, in fact we are not. Yesterday, our neighbours in Sweden entered into a defence agreement all the way from Enhedslisten and SF's sister parties, the Miljöpartie and the Vänsterpartiet, all the way to Sweden, where they have decided to go up to 2%. (bnp) and also to invest 30.9 billion. kr. in defence equipment. I guess it's Sweden that's neutral. It is a trend that we are going to see throughout Europe because, of course, we are concerned about protecting our territorial defences. The defence agreement clearly states that Sweden is concerned about a possible invasion, and here, in particular, efforts are being increased in Gotland. The reason why I am saying this is that it is seriously security policy and that is why we have taken the serious steps we have taken in relation to economic sanctions around Russia. This will also be felt because this combination of war and sanctions means that we are going to see increasing food shortages in the world. It will have consequences, not only in Denmark or in the West, but it will have consequences on the African continent in particular. Russia has been massively present in Africa for many years, both with weapons, with military, with the Wagner Group, but also with food aid, and I can imagine that African states will be going through a very hard time now that Putin is under pressure. Any new famine disaster, erosion and more unrest, we may see an increasing Islamisation of Africa and much more. It can very easily also be Europe's problem with migration, refugees, terrorist threats, etc. I know, of course, that the Prime Minister has a very special knowledge on the African continent, so I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he will help us sit down together and look at this - what we need to do in particular in our efforts in the African countries which are facing a fragile time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131333	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131335	First of all, thank you to the SF for taking responsibility in this situation. Now it is said that others continue to use terms as neutrality, but that is not really possible in this situation. No one can afford to sail under flags of convenience, not be supporters of NATO, not be supporters of European cooperation, because then, in my view, you will find yourself in a place where it is made too easy for our opponents. We have to stick together! And the only reason the world can respond to Putin is our cooperation with each other. If we did not have a European Union right now, we would not be able to adopt sanctions to the extent that we do, pushing Putin, more than anyone had anticipated. If Denmark and many others were not members of the NATO Alliance, we would not be able to strengthen our tools in the way we have done it. So the international communities, what they really are, whether they are on their own continent or transatlantic and, incidentally, also with partners on other continents, are absolutely crucial right now, and that is probably the only thing that the part of Russia that supports Putin really fears. The African continent, yes, it can be a difficult period. We have a huge conflict material around the Sahel, a military coup in Mali, we have problems over the Horn of Africa and around the Nile, and a number of fragile states will be even more challenged when food shortages begin, and the rising energy prices hit the African continent too. So there is good reason to have an attention here. We can do this on the one hand with our own aid and the good work we ourselves have done in Africa, but it is also very much something that the European Union must do. For the truth is that for too many years we have allowed people with whom we do not share values and security policy interests to be allowed to play an excessive role, because the rest of us have withdrawn too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131542	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131543	In fact, that is the essence of the question I am asking. Because I can see that both China, but also Russia, have been very massively present in Africa, of course with an interest in new raw materials and rare earths and other things, a race they would actually have liked to continue in Greenland if they had been able to do so, and that is why I ask if we can look at an increased effort on the African continent. It does not just have to be in Danish development policy, it is just as much within the EU framework, but there is no doubt that you leave a vacuum when you withdraw yourself and let countries like Russia and China dominate the African continent. For me, this is really a matter of due diligence, because Africa is Europe's backyard, and I doubt that the Americans will come here and help us with those problems, and this is where I want the European Union to take shape. So I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister of the European Union will try to work for stronger efforts in relation to the African continent, while at the same time all these agendas are also running.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131639	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131640	The short answer is yes, and I also hope that the words mean that a potential future military commitment, including on the Danish side, can come up again in relation to Africa. I personally lament what has happened in the Sahel region, based on Mali, where the international coalition has had to withdraw, including Denmark, and where we not only see a military coup in one of the countries; we also see an increase in Islamisation, we see Islamic State, we see al-Qaeda, who plays a greater role in an area of the world that is already extremely challenged, that is, massive poverty, major migration challenges and, moreover, the consequences of climate change, that is, more drought and more people who will have to move. So it is a perfectly correct analysis, that, although we are currently concentrating on the eastern flank and what is happening in Ukraine with good reason, what is happening in Africa is at least as important. And now to make matters worse, I would also appeal to the attention of the whole parliament in relation to the Balkans, the Western Balkans, and the increasing problems we see around Bosnia and Republika Srpska, where Putin also plays an incredibly boring role.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131751	Pia Olsen Dyhr for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131752	That is why this discussion is not just a matter of Russia and Ukraine. This is about a completely new security policy agenda. I agree with the Prime Minister. The last question I have is to the north. The Prime Minister has been visiting Greenland and has among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I think that is a good thing. In this context, it has emerged that the forum for dialogue in which Denmark and Greenland discuss such issues has not been used. Will the Prime Minister explain why Greenland has still not been able to be involved in issues which are so obviously of vital interest to Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131826	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131826-2	I don't recognize that interpretation. Well, it's under this government that a contact committee has been set up to actually create a forum where we can discuss foreign and security and defence policy between Greenland and the Faroe Islands and Denmark. We've met. We have established a work and a meeting is planned in the Faroe Islands as the next meeting. In addition, we have a very, very close contact with each other. Then I know that there is a member of parliament who has wanted there to be a closer contact, among other things. on the national compromise. It has also been supported by the chairman of the national government. It is important for me to say that there are quite a few parts of the national compromise that concern Denmark alone, i.e. the budget law and a vote on the defence reserve. And then there are things that concern and are going to concern the Kingdom community. This is not least when it comes to the defence settlement, where there will also be a focus on the Arctic. There we have a shared responsibility for • and it is, of course, very much the government's responsibility that there is a proper involvement of both the Faroe Islands and Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131925	The question is over, so thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322131933	Thank you. It's a hell of a time to be a human being and also to be a politician. It is very short time ago that there was a two-year anniversary for Denmark to shut down and both Denmark and the world were hit by a pandemic, and it has filled with rightfulness. It was a real crisis, and it still is in some parts of the world, but it has been replaced by an even greater crisis in Europe, as the Prime Minister also mentioned. After all, it is a war that is now sending millions of people to flee more than we have ever seen. It is also a war that very directly threatens our security and reminds us of how vulnerable we are. So we must act on that and we have done so with the national compromise on Danish security policy. I'm incredibly happy and proud of that too. It is politics that works when it is really serious. However, even if we are in that security crisis, we must not forget the other existing crises, which are, after all, getting all the way into it, that is to say the climate crisis. After all, the Prime Minister announced before this invasion of Ukraine that she is no longer red until she is green, and I hope that this will not only apply, but will also be concrete in action, because that is what counts. After all, most people have realised that climate, energy and supply policies are security policy, and that is also part of our national compromise. We must not and will not be dependent on Putin, let alone sponsor his war because we import his gas, coal and oil. Nor can we be familiar if we push the climate crisis into the background. There's no break button. So I would like to hear very concretely and it is actually to get closer to the when the government is ready with the phasing out plan for Russian gas, to get rid of Russian gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132142	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132143	Thank you for that question too, and first of all I would like to thank the Radical Left. This also applies to the SF, which has just been working on a very good cooperation during all three crises, in fact, both during the pandemic, during the climate crisis and now in a security crisis. This has been quite well done, because it is never difficult to stand outside agreements and shout that you would have felt differently or more or less. The hard part is to sit down and make the agreements that society needs so thank you so much for that. After all, we agree that we need to get out of the Russian gas, and that can only go too slowly. At the summit that has just been held in the European Union last week, we in Denmark agreed that we should not only get out of the Russian gas, but also as soon as possible. I think it is good that there is a link between what we adopt in Denmark and what the European Union is doing in this area. After all, we must discuss together how we are doing this, and of course we do not have a completely clear plan for it, but we must have that in place quickly together. It has to be seen in the context of what we are also doing in the European Union, because what is so great about Denmark is that, apart from the fact that we now have a political majority that has wanted to establish energy islands and also thanks for the cooperation we have a fantastic sea area where we in Denmark have the potential not only to supply ourselves with clean energy and with clean power, but also large parts of Europe. I think that's where we're going now. Not only do we need to move forward with our own green strategy, but we have the opportunity to deliver much of what many other European countries will also be looking for. So we must ensure that decisions taken at European level and at home are consistent, but I do not expect any disagreement between the Radical Left and the Social Democrats in this area, because it is absolutely right that energy policy is a security policy. And it can't be that we're dependent on Putin... it can't be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132340	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132341	I am very pleased that the Prime Minister takes that view, because that is, of course, where I want to go. That is why I am a little concerned about, or at least see, an opportunity that must not be missed when we talk about heating aid here and now too, and I think we are all frustrated by that part of the technical part. But on the other hand, we're really worried that this is just gonna be more support for some gas right now. So when, then, is there to become a very concrete plan for district heating and heat pumps? When can the 350,000 people and households with gas burners today be told when they can move on to either green district heating or heat pumps? And is that not where we need to take action with the aid, so that it will be a real green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132426	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132427	Yeah, and I actually think it's more like 400,000 households than it's 350,000 households, and I don't think there's any of them... people in those households... who right now wouldn't want to get rid of that gas, both because it's too expensive, but also because we'd all rather be part of the district heating or have a different kind of heating. So, yes, it is really, really important that in the negotiations we are engaged in, we have a long-term focus, but I also hope that, while we have it, we can also focus on what is happening here and now. Unfortunately, we will not be able at any time to compensate for all the price increases we are going to see, but there may be some who are in such a difficult situation that it would be right to go in and give a hand. But the question is whether we really can't do that, and I think we can do that within the framework that we now have, can do something that can both help on the short track, while at the same time getting the tracks laid faster than what was planned. And I have to say: I mean, I think it's a little difficult to get an overview of where district heating is exactly rolled out and how fast it happens, so it's at least one of the places where we need to get together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132535	Sofie Carsten Nielsen for the last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132536	I am glad to hear that, because it must be now that we overturn the bureaucracy and get things rolled out so that that is not what stands in the way. I also understand that the many young people who, with this national compromise, are actually borrowing money to increase the cost of defense are financially responsible, and we are also voicing concern and asking ourselves the question: what about the climate and the green transition? And I think we should take that seriously. It is very specific about what the Prime Minister also mentioned here in relation to a European framework, in other words it requires a plan to speed up the phasing-in of green energy, which will of course replace the Russian gas that we need to phase out. Therefore, does the Prime Minister agree that by 2030 we need to expand much more renewable energy in order to be able to say that we have phased out Russian gas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132632	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132633	Completely. I have no doubt about that, and again: we have a fantastic sea area where we have, so to speak, laid some of the stones to the first part of the adventure around the energy islands. But the sea area is so large and the wind is such that we can supply many more Europeans in addition to the need we have to supply ourselves. So the answer is yes, we need more renewable energy. And then, on top of this, we have to remember that we are extremely talented in terms of renewable energy and we can become even more skilled, even to the extent that we can also do something else in Denmark. All over Europe, energy efficiency is now needed: in public buildings, in private buildings, in households. We are quite well involved in Denmark in that area too. We also have some of the world's best companies in this field, but in many places in Europe the heat rushes right out through the windows when it's cold outside. And there are more possibilities for Denmark to go into that track as well; when country by country is about to change their windows, they can put velux windows in, and when they are about to isolate, they can use rockwool etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132743	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. We move on to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132753	Thank you. Right now, millions of people are fleeing Ukraine, from the horrors of war, from Putin's bomb site. They seek security and security in Europe and in Denmark, and it is really, really, really beautiful and wonderful to see how the Danish Parliament has actually opened its arms. In a very short time, we have made a law to make this escape as painless as possible. For once, it has not been a battle uphill with refugee policy, and that is why we also voted in the Enhedslist for, because of course we think we should help everyone we can. But it also makes me sad, because why does the same openness not apply when there are other refugees knocking on our door? When a special law is made to help Ukrainian refugees from taking their jewelry at the border crossing, so that they can go to work and go to school immediately instead of sitting and being broken down at an asylum centre, I think it exhibits that we have a skewed and tight immigration legislation and refugee legislation in Denmark. Of course the Ukrainians must be helped. I do not understand why we have voted against this law if we have done so, because they are on the run. But the help this special law gives me should apply to all the refugees who are knocking on our door. Therefore, I would like to hear the Prime Minister answer whether not all refugees deserve the help to be able to go to school, to work, get much more support than what we are giving today • if these conditions should not actually apply to all those who move to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132943	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322132947	Yes, there is no doubt that if people are on the run and have a need for protection, they must be helped, but as a starting point in their vicinity. And it can be said that the sooner we reach that conclusion, the better, because the consequences of the old refugee system, which still exists, are, of course, that those people who are already at risk because of war or abuse must also cross the Mediterranean, and they are in the hands of traffickers and traffickers, with all the consequences, and they must mobilize incredible sums. And many of those who then come do not actually have a need for protection at all and must therefore be returned, which costs us an incredible amount of money. So a refugee system must basically be based on the principle that if you are entitled to protection, then you must be protected; children must go to school, the birthing woman must have proper health facilities that must be available for employment. But it has to be in the immediate vicinity, and that would be a good thing if some of the rich oil states in the Middle East started to take responsibility for their immediate areas, what they have never done. We Europeans do that in return. So when there is war on our continent, we are of course helping the refugees who come from Ukraine, and I would like to thank both a broad majority in the Folketing for supporting it, but also, as far as I can see, a very, very large part of the Danish population. Then, just before I went down here, I saw that the Ukrainian ambassador said something very interesting: do not integrate my fellow countrymen into Danish society. This is, of course, a different approach to refugee issues than what we normally hear, and I very much agree: being a refugee must be something that is temporary; then you must return and help build up your homeland once you have the opportunity. This gives us the opportunity to help some new refugees. So, yes, refugees must be protected, preferably in the neighbourhood, and in Europe, of course, we must shoulder our responsibilities when it is our immediate area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133138	Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133139	After all, we can discuss how refugee policy should be organized. There we have some big disagreements. The truth is that there are people knocking on our door, from Syria, from Afghanistan, from all sorts of places that are being treated differently, and I simply think that is wrong and wrong. Something else that is also problematic with this special law, I think is funding. After all, the funds come from the world's poorest, from development funds, which could, of course, go to long-term development in Africa, where there are enormous problems, as this debate has also pointed out. That is what is needed, and I know that it has taken a great deal of interest to the Prime Minister: the situation of the world's poorest people in Africa historically. So I ask: why can we not agree that we need to find fairer, fairer funding? Well, the world's poorest has no part in the war in Ukraine. It's Putin. You need the development funds, so can it really be true that it is the poorest who have to pay here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133247	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133248	In other words, what is being asked is whether we in Denmark should continue the practice we have had since 1992 or at least that was where both national and international practice began to suggest that, if I remember correctly, in the first 12 months a refugee is staying in another country, parts of development aid can be used. And that has changed the majority of the Folketing, it must be for 30 years, and we have no desire to change that practice. I think it makes perfect sense. But it is clear that what we need to be aware of is a number of things. In fact, we do not know how many refugees we are going to receive from Ukraine. Danish society is currently in the process of capturing our Ukrainian friends and neighbours in daycare institutions and schools and in jobs and in neighbouring communities and other things. And thank you for the effort out there, also to sports organizations and all of you who are fighting for it. But there can be many more people. We are facing potentially one of the worst refugee crises in our history. And, of course, we must pay attention to how we use the remaining development aid as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133359	Mrs Mai Villadsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133401	Well, I think this particular special law has fortunately highlighted how we have financed this for so many years. As we have always pointed out, funding has been missed because there are so many crises and conflicts in the world whose victims deserve that money. They should have that help; it should not be Denmark that is the largest recipient of our own development aid. I think that is quite simply wrong. I really hope we can do something about that. Another thing I hope we can do something about is help some of the other people who are also fleeing Putin's bombs. Because the Ukrainians do, but the Syrians actually do. Putin has also bombed off with Assad in Syria, and some of the people who have suffered have fled to Denmark. Unfortunately, we just don't show them the same help and hospitality. Right now it is the case that the policy in Denmark is that because of § 7 paragraph 7. 3, they must be sent back to Assad as soon as possible. So, doesn't the government and the Prime Minister feel a bit in the heart that we show different degrees of mercy to people who are all actually fleeing Putin's bombs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133507	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133509	I think, as I said before, that it is important for us to help people flee. However, I personally am very strongly in favour of temporary relief in the area of refugees. And there are several reasons for this. Well, first of all, I would feel that if at some point there had to be a conflict in Denmark, apart from the fact that I would probably rather stay and fight than I would escape, if I had the opportunity to do so, and if I had to flee for one reason or another, then I would do everything I could to come back to help rebuild the country I love and the country from which my world is going. I think that is the starting point for refugees. I do not think that refugees should become immigrants or foreigners from the country from which they come. That is my entirely fundamental position. The second is that if we do not recognise temporary nature in the area of refugees, we are really blocking our ability to help others who have a need for protection. For access to Denmark cannot be unlimited. It cannot; we cannot help everyone. That is why we need to set up a refugee system so that we can help those who need it. Moreover, we can help many more if we do so in the neighbourhood rather than maintaining a system which sounds humane but which is actually inhumane.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133621	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. Then we move on to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133627	Thank you. The price of one litre of gasoline and diesel has increased dramatically. Some experts predict that the price can be more than 20 DKK. per The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. Driving to work has become very expensive. It has become frighteningly expensive to visit your family so dearly that many Danes find it difficult to find the money. Then, of course, you can say that you can just take public transport. But that is not possible everywhere, and in some places it makes no sense either, because the driver is the rear of the bus. Then you can say you want to buy an electric car. Not everyone can afford that, and the price of electricity has also risen dramatically. A lot of people are deeply dependent on their cars in Denmark. It is becoming less and less affordable, and it is an extraordinary situation, and I think that as politicians we have a responsibility to help solve that. We can afford to put the tax down in Denmark, so the Danes get more money for themselves if we want to. At a time when the Danes find it difficult to pay ordinary bills, how can the Prime Minister justify spending more and more money on expanding the public sector rather than helping the Danes to afford to pay their bills?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133746	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133746-2	The biggest expansion of the public economy that has been made in man's memory is, of course, the Conservative People's Party which has just helped to do with the rest of us, namely by the defence, and that, I hope, brings some nuances into what it means to spend more money on public spending. There is one area on which we agree. So I think one should be a little bit careful to stand and say that Denmark can of course afford major tax cuts, because the money has to come from somewhere. So what? Are these savings in school or in the area of the elderly or in health? When I listen to today's debate, our overall economy is not linked to the wishes of every party. We must act, but we must also think a little about it, because it is true that we are in an extraordinary situation. Our challenge is just, to be honest with the Danes, that we do not know how long it will last. We don't know how deep we get into our economy. We do not know how much the consequences will be. We must always pursue a responsible economic policy, and that is why we must think about and how we can best help those who are most at risk, while not derogating from all the principles of accountability in the economy. It's a difficult balancing act, and it's gonna be a difficult balancing act. Finally, I would like to say that I could not dream of being in relation to the phrase that is being reproduced, saying that so that people can take a bus. The parts of North Jutland, where I myself come, do not drive buses anymore. There are plenty of people, especially in the province, who need two cars to do their job. And there are plenty of Danes who can't afford to buy an electric car. So rising petrol prices are a problem and, of course, we also have this in our deliberations on what action is needed here in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133924	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322133925	The Danish heat bill is on the sky, the household budget is in many places pressed down because everything is becoming more expensive, the price of electricity has increased by 44 per cent, natural and urban gas has been 96 per cent. More expensive, and that makes it quite natural that you have more and more difficulty paying the heating bill than all other prices are currently increasing. A few months ago, the government made a so-called acute heat package, but for example. I mean, eight out of ten children's families don't get anything out of it. Now new negotiations have been convened, and I would like to know whether the Prime Minister will help to reduce taxes and charges for the benefit of all Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134009	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134009-2	I never reject anything prior to negotiations, and I also hope that the Conservative People's Party will be included in the next agreement in this area. When we have this discussion with each other, we owe it to the Danes to tell us where that money is going to come from. Because we are also discussing a health reform in which I think almost all parties have said that more money should be spent on health. And I hope that we will not return to the way in which the recent crisis was dealt with by saying, so to speak, that we will have to cut massively in one place and the other, for example. in the field of education, because we have to go through this crisis and, at the same time, invest in our future. So I don't want to stand there and reject ideas before. All I know is that if we are to give tax concessions of the kind Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen wants, it will mean massive savings in our welfare societies, and I find it difficult to see where those answers should be, unless you think so, for example. We need to take care of the elderly or health care. This has been done before, and I would not recommend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134114	Søren Pape Poulsen for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134114-2	Thank you. You could also choose to make reforms, good classical reforms. Reforms come in many ways. You could do that, too. I think that there is a problem with the way we talk about our welfare society and also the way we talk about the public sector. Now we have quite rightly chosen that defence expenditure should rise dramatically because it is about our security, and it is also so well-being that we can live in security and freedom. I think it might be time for us to have an honest discussion with the people and to say that there is this automaticity, that you just follow the demographic move; that you just over the coming years have to fire 69 billion. kr. in a larger public sector? Do we necessarily get a better public sector from it? Is it only money that can create quality in this society? I have much more faith in the public servants than just that. I think you can do things smarter every day. I think we can ask our leaders to be sharper on how to lead institutions. There is the example we have used many times, namely poor Else Marie Larsen. She wouldn't have been better off if three employees had been looking at her instead of two. So, of course, there's something to come for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134222	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134223	Now it gets interesting, and we can do that, because it falls completely into what both I and the government think, namely that we can get more welfare out of the welfare society we have today, if we do, but that means that it also requires Christiansborg not to go into detail about what the public employees are supposed to do. We are the ones who are causing the problems. It is not out in the individual nursing home that the problems arise, indeed, if there are stumbled vessels, but the bureaucracy, the extensive legislation, the detailed management, the minute tyranny • dear child has many names, and it also has bad children starting and ending here. The employment legislation, in which no one can now find either head or tail, was born here, over in the Ministry of Employment, but also here in the Chamber. If reforms this time could mean that the individual social and health assistant could be allowed to use his mind and his common sense instead of sitting and registering things that given no one ever reads, then yes, we would like that reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134329	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. We move on to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134336	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for starting. I was really happy about what the Prime Minister said. I would like to return to the subject of the fact that the Prime Minister's party, as one of its unflattering moments last week, was helping to prevent us from having an urgent question here tomorrow precisely about what is actually the reason for the withdrawal of the defence reserve. So I am glad that the Prime Minister is ready to make himself available today, because I think there are a lot of people who, like me, cannot really find out what it really is that the Prime Minister and her friends in the EU parties will without a reservation. We hear something about being in the heart of the European Union, and it certainly gives some connotations a la Helle Thorning-Schmidt, who was also European by heart and wanted to get rid of it with all the reservations. Is that what the Prime Minister imagines? Now we'll take one, and then we'll take the next after? Or what is this supposed to lead to? She is talking about some European values. So, are these the values commonly used to create refugee quotas and shut down dissident radio channels? These values are also used as justification for this. So what exactly are we going to use this EU military construction for in relation to these European values? Then I heard that she had the entire spin office running and came up with a clever slogan. It's about having unity rather than reservations. But who are we gonna be with? Well, what's that for? I know, of course, that the Prime Minister, together with his French colleague, Macron, shares a very, very great commitment to the African continent, which the chairman of the Socialist People's Party also mentioned earlier. In other words, it is more of the kind of military engagements that have been made by the European Union: Mali, Somalia, the Central African Republic, the Sahel, etc.? Is that what Danish troops with 12 stars on their shoulder are going to be used for future purposes in some EU military construction? And what about NATO? I mean, I am very concerned about NATO, and I think that is where Denmark's freedom and security are guaranteed. A quarter of the EU Member States are not in NATO. The main NATO country is not in the EU. How can we prevent this from leading to a division of NATO? After all, I had hoped that we could have talked about all these things in an urgent request; now it will be in three minutes, but that is a start.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134542	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134543	NATO, when we talk about defence and security policy, is absolutely the most important thing. And it is thanks to NATO, and it is thanks to our strong transatlantic ties that we have now, for generations, been able to live in peace, security and security for most of us Europeans. So nothing must undermine and nothing must challenge NATO in my optics. NATO is the most important thing. Then there is a consensus in NATO that, in a new reality where new security policy challenges arise, many of them due to Putin, up against the Arctic, into Africa, the Balkans, right now most seriously Ukraine and a short time ago Belarus, but indeed also new challenges out into Asia, will have to do most of the things in the circle of NATO countries together, but also to be able to put particular emphasis on our own neighbourhoods or where there may be special issues at stake. We agree with NATO on this. That is why there is a consensus in NATO that both Europe and the North American continent must do more for our common security. The Americans and Canadians do that in their way, and we Europeans do that in our way. So within the framework of NATO there is agreement to strengthen our security engagements. So the answer to all the many questions is really the same and actually quite simple. When Putin threatens not only Ukraine, but the whole Western world and our entire security structure, we must do more. That's why we need to spend more money on our defenses. That is why we need to get rid of the reservation. And that is, yes, an indication that Denmark will be involved, taking our responsibility and shouldering our responsibility with the people and countries with whom we share the values of freedom, democracy and the security and security of our peoples.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134750	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134751	In the circle of NATO countries, the Prime Minister says, but it is not the European Union. After all, Austria, Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Malta and Cyprus are EU countries, but not NATO countries, and the main European NATO country, namely Britain, is not an EU country. This is also true of Norway and other countries, for example. Iceland. So how on earth is this gonna work if it's gonna be part of NATO? I note that Stoltenberg has been out warning against the creation of the same separate command structures in the European Union, but how should we have an EU army to complement NATO members with non-NATO members without having an independent command? That doesn't make any sense. So that sounds very good, and I can also hear that it is completely synchronised among the EU parties, and that is what you say, but how will you make sure in the practical reality that the result of this European army, which we saw yesterday on the front page of the Jyllands-Posten really begins to take shape, does not exactly become a division of NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134846	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134847	It must never be. It is quite true that the European countries are dividing up; there are some who are members of NATO, others are members of the European Union, and fortunately we are some who are members in both places. I will fight with all my heart and with my whole mind at all times for Denmark to be both places. By the way, I hope that the movement in the West will become more West and not less. Once, isolation and retreat support and support only one, namely Putin. But the more we come together, the more we stand together on the path of sanctions in our aid to Ukraine, in our handling of the refugee crisis and in our defence, whether it is the national defence we have chosen to strengthen in Denmark, or it is our NATO defence, the better it is. We should not have an EU army, just as we should not have a NATO army. We have a Danish defence, which we can choose to use in the UN context, in the NATO context, in a circle of allies. We have done so sometimes and also gladly together with our European colleagues. But Danish defence must be a Danish defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134955	Morten Messerschmidt for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322134957	But Macron wants an EU army, Merkel wants an EU army, the European Commission wants an EU army, the European Parliament wants an EU army. Since that is the way the European Union is moving, why not stick to the reservation? What we are talking about in Brussels and I know, of course, that the Prime Minister often arrives there, it is about European autonomy, that is independence. In Brussels you have a great dream of being able to form a counterpole not only for Putin, Xi Jinping etc., but also for the Americans, so that you can carry out your own operations so that you can get on a cruise in Africa etc., as Macron would like, so that you can do all sorts of other things that Merkel and Scholz would like. But it is precisely an EU army. So how does Denmark prevent the division of NATO by abolishing a reservation that will pave the way for us to become part of an EU military project that will split NATO? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135054	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135054-2	I have a few things. In fact, I do not understand why the Danish People's Party, in the situation we are in right now, where there is war on our own continent, is spending its time unlike other Europeans in an old-fashioned war of aggression with enormous consequences. There's only one we have to stand against right now, and that's Putin. It is Putin who is undermining the West and who will He is not allowed to do it; he will not succeed with it, but that is what he wants. Putin's the one who's attacking. It is the rest of us who defend and gather us. Of course we need to have a discussion about this, and it is quite fair that we can disagree on it, but 1) we should not have an EU army, 2) we should not surrender the Danish defence to others. But when we have a defence that can do what the Danish defence can do, and when, despite our geographically small size, we are willing to assume a global responsibility on the Danish side, then I think we should do so. And when we have Putin attacking, the West must, in my view, stand together and stand together stronger than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135203	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. And we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135204	Thank you. I am pleased that the government and the Prime Minister have finally seen and realised that Denmark's defence must be strengthened, that we in Denmark must deliver on the 2-percent pledge in NATO, and that a credible defence of Denmark as a country is not a free ticket that you can ask the United States to pay for all eternity. However, it is not reassuring that there should be a direct attack by the Russians against Ukraine before the Prime Minister raised his head and said: hey, there is something here that we have to deal with. One year ago, in New Citizens, we tabled a proposal to raise the defence budget to 2%. of our bnp. And then the government refused that strengthening the defence was something that needed to be addressed. You simply poured it down the board and voted no. I don't understand. Was it only last month that the Prime Minister and the government understood and discovered that Russia is threatening its neighbours? However, there have been plenty of danger signals about that for many, many years. The government's own intelligence agencies have described the threat from Russia in detail in their annual reports, and from the defence's own people we have heard for years that the material was worn out and that there was too little of it. Not even the one brigade with which the budget was to be scraped has been delivered. For most people, it seemed quite obvious, so doesn't the Prime Minister's regret that it took so long for the Prime Minister himself to realize the seriousness of the situation? And does the Prime Minister regret that she and the government didn't support the proposal from New Citizens last year? Because then we would have already been at it by now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135404	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135405	So, quite soberly, it has to be said that there are no governments before this one and that there is no majority until the majority that is around the national compromise has put the pen to paper and signed that we have to live up to the 2%. Other governments have had the opportunity and have not done so. We have done so now, by a broad majority, and I would like to thank you for that. I very much agreed with the opening words that there is no free ticket, and there really is no free ticket right now. There isn't a free ticket around security. You cannot choose to outsource it to somebody else, and I sincerely believe that it has come as a surprise to Putin. I believe that Ukraine's resistance has taken Putin by surprise, and I also believe that the unity of the West has taken Putin by surprise. In fact, I think Putin had hoped that the Europeans and the West would have stood in a corner and wrung themselves in their hands and said: it is a shame what is going on, but we cannot really do anything about that. We also know that Putin has had a wish, for example. on Brexit, that is, that the English should move away from the European Union. I don't think he was counting on our unity. But we have shown this unity, and we can only do so because many people in the Western world agree that there is no free ticket. Therefore, my recommendation will be that whether we make agreements on the national compromise or make agreements on receiving Ukrainian refugees, or we make agreements to try to compensate for some of the shocks that come into the economy, you go into the room and take responsibility for the overall result. Dt is so easy to stand outside, and it is so easy to criticize. The difficult thing is to make decisions, but it is the decisions that benefit the Danes that are not the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135548	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135548-2	Thank you for your answer. It is considerably easier to sit on the table when you are invited to the negotiations • After all. And then I'll just have to say that the Prime Minister is talking again. The fact is, the government and the Prime Minister are behind schedule. And also in relation to rising energy prices, the government and the Prime Minister are lagging behind. You act too late and wrong, and who pays the bill? The Danish families do. For years we in New Citizens have been saying that energy taxes are too high, and we have proposed and have also financed lower taxes on, for example, electricity and petrol. The government has not wanted to listen to this, and not even an advance on these modest agreed reliefs until 2030 will be taken on board. Instead, this drive-around system was invented, where the charges are taken out of the pocket of all the Danes and then distributed again in smaller portions as subsidies to selected groups, which the government probably would like to receive. Now bureaucracy has been going on in this running-around system, and you can't even figure out how to pay out the billion until August. Does the PM really think this running around system is smart?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135700	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135701	I have already answered that with the time perspective. There is, of course, the matter of taxes, that it is such a rather strange size. Because when we say taxes and taxes, most people instinctively agree that let us put them down, because it is so abstract. But if it suddenly comes down to the fact that there is no proper cancer treatment for the cancer patient who needs it, then it is no longer an abstract size. Or if there is not the training offer for the young person that the young person needs or if there is not the adult in the day care institution when the small person falls. And that is why I just want to say 'because I can see on top of today's debate what kind of discussion we will have in the coming months' that there will be shocks in the Danish economy. We must do what we can, but we must not pretend that we can lift the entire burden of the Danes' shoulders. Because this could be a long time, and it could get heavy, and it could be hard. But compared to the thing about standing there saying that if we just look at the tax or tax reduction, then it's something that comes with a price. And when, for example, I... Looking into our health sector today, I don't see what kind of patients we can just take a lot of benefits from. So it is not as easy as I think it might be presented here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135809	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135811	Honestly: I think there are very many Danes who are getting extremely tired of politicians who stand up on television and generously hand out gifts to selected groups, which are funded by all Danes' money. So this goodness, where you try, perhaps, to get voters in special segments at the expense of the total population who see their energy prices rising, while at the same time not being favoured themselves. In fact, I think the Danes are getting really tired of that. Could we not just for once allow the Danes to keep a little more of their own money themselves instead of these eternal patch solutions that so obviously do not solve the problem? So that doesn't solve the problem. It only allows politicians to stand there and shine on TV for five minutes to what benefit? Not for the benefit of the Danes, but to a great extent for the benefit of the politicians who can stand and get these five minutes' fame. Does the Prime Minister not agree that, even though the Prime Minister says it is not easy, it is better structural policy to lower energy taxes than to give these subsidies to drive around systems which are obviously overbureaucratic?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135921	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322135922	Now, in all modesty, I do not think it is so often that I stand in press meetings and do something that is seen very positively by the Danes in this way. It's been some awkward years, you might say. So the thing about saying something so that Shine doesn't seem so often I'd say. On the other hand, I agree with the last point that every time we are in something, even if it is difficult and complicated, we need to look for more basic answers. And that is why I am back in the discussion I had with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen: if there is anything in the current situation that is really going to get us out of the chairs, then it is the need to speed up the green transition quickly so that we get out of the Russian gas. So I am very, very receptive to the discussion I had with Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, compared to making some more fundamental changes to our society, so that we stand stronger. Both on the short and on the long track.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140021	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no more questions. Then we move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140029	Thank you. Let me begin by congratulating the Prime Minister and the Government for taking the initiative to commit themselves to fulfilling NATO commitments and using them here. 18 billion kr. extra on the Danish defence. This is urgently needed both because of the situation in Ukraine, but also because the defence needs it. I think if you're in doubt, you can just see what help we could give the Ukrainians that were armored rockets. There wasn't much else in the Danish defence that could be used down there. These are signs that there really is a need for armament. So praise for it, and it is quite sincere. What I would like to discuss is, on the other hand, the financing of these extra costs. What the government's up to is the way to fund this extra 18 billion. kr. every year on, is with an increased deficit. It is important to note here that deficits are already planned up to approx. 2060 every year, and that deficit is now planned to increase even further. I think it is a sound principle that when you print such large bills and have such high costs on behalf of taxpayers, you are also trying to find the money. Therefore, Denmark needs reforms that make us richer so that we can increase the cost of defence so that we can meet demographic changes in the coming years and also be able to afford to ease the tax. The alternative is either to increase the tax or to increase the debt, or at least to increase the deficit. The difficult choice, but the responsible choice here is to commit to finding the money. There I think the government has chosen the easy solution, because that is the easy solution to say: we are just running with deficits. So we spend more than 1,200 billion each year. kr. for public expenditure. Nevertheless, no money has been found among public spending to give priority to defence instead. I just want to know whether it is understood that the Prime Minister thinks that a penny cannot be saved in the public sector that could go to the defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140232	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140236	No, I certainly don't think so. I will just come back to that and we have also had the discussion with each other in the past. However, I think it is important to say two things: firstly, there is a need for a debate and thanks for the words about the need to strengthen Danish defence. I have noted that the Liberal Alliance is of the opinion, and we are naturally looking forward to working together on this, even when we are discussing defence at all. Secondly, in relation to the economy: we have a sustainable public economy; we have a fundamentally healthy Danish economy. It is important to say that changing political majorities have been good at taking responsibility for also making decisions about the economy so that you do not shine when you meet them, but which are important for us to have a long-term healthy Danish economy. That's what makes it possible for us to deal with the Corona crisis. That is also what makes it possible not only to amend the budget law now, but also to amend it now, because we have sustainability, and we actually have sustainability in the state's finances thanks to some of the decisions that have been taken in the past and, incidentally, because the Danes are good at work and other things. Therefore, it is a little important to say here that it is not only possible to do what we do with having one, one must say, modest deficits; it is actually the right thing to do, because otherwise our handling of the hammock challenge would really become too biased over generations. So on the second question: is there anywhere that can be saved in the public sector? Yeah, that's absolutely right. Now we have just had the discussion on the area of the elderly. It torments me with the way we have designed our older sector, where too many of our employees spend time on a screen away from the elderly. I just want, when I can see how many older people are going to be in this society, to spend the money that we can free from it, if we can agree on it, to take care of our older people than for tax cuts or some other thing. So there are still some disagreements about economic policy, but what we are doing here is actually entirely responsible and justifiable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140441	Thank you. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140445	However, may I not begin by expressing a joy at the prospect that we will have to save money in the public sector together. There are, in any case, some possibilities for this in some places, it sounds, and I would very much like to contribute to that. And then it is true that what the Ministry of Finance says is that in the long term, 30-40 years into the future, Danish economy is viable. What the Ministry of Finance says is two things. One is that for the next 30 years we will be fiercely challenged by large generations retiring, and that is why we are being pressured on the costs, and there is the prospect of the hammock, that is, that we run with deficits every eternally only year, unless, of course, we make some reforms to meet that challenge. And then they say: in return, after 2060, there is a sustainability that is a surplus in the Danish economy, and then you can pay off this debt if and if everything lasts. Somewhere it's a bit of a guesswork, and it's a risk to run. I think that, in such a situation, the responsibility is not just to increase the debt even more or increase the deficit even more over the next 30 years, but to set in motion the reforms that should make us richer and better able to deal with things. Because, as the Prime Minister says, it's what has characterized changing governments... Nyrup did it, Fogh did it, Thorning did it, Lars Løkke Rasmussen had the will to do it. And I think this government is completely devoid of the will to make major reforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140554	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140555	Well now we did a reform, shortly before the war broke out in Ukraine, which is one of the biggest single contributions to increasing the supply of work in Denmark, by the way significantly more than the VLAK government was able to do. So it's just to get the historical facts in place, that the will to do it is also in this government. It must, of course, be done wisely with a green aim and with a social responsibility, but we can actually pursue economic policy, including reform policy, which benefits the general public and not just some people, which I think has been a slight tendency towards in the past. This is also a commitment that we have not finished making reforms. I think we need to make reforms in several areas. So here's just a concrete example of what I was talking about before. A short time ago I sat with a young person who had to apply for youth education. That's when I realized that you had to fill out a long questionnaire like that. That's what the kid was supposed to do. I believe that the youth education they had chosen had 3-4 pages. I immediately wrote to the minister responsible: why on earth should you sit and spend time on this? Then I was told that, fortunately, we had just abolished it or that a majority in the Folketing has just abolished it. But that's proof of it. And why do we do that? Why do we ask all young people in Denmark to sit and fill out such a long questionnaire, and are we sure that someone ever reads them? That is an example of how we can spend the money better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140711	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140715	That is a good example. Well, there's just something that generally annoys me here. Because I do not agree with this estimate that we have such a reform government that is solving the shortage of labour. You just filled up the hole you created with Arnepensionen. There is still a historically large shortage of labour in Denmark, and it has not been possible to make any reforms that really meet it. The experience I have of the government is, of course, that you are terrified of making some reforms that can piss off some trade union boss or piss off some core voters or discontent, that is, that you do not have the courage to make the reforms you know to be right for the Danish economy, but which are perhaps unpopular. After all, it is a lack of responsible leadership, I would say, and it is the same trend that you see now, where you have to find a lot of money, and then you choose to finance the deficit instead of finding the money and making the right decisions. So I just want to know whether the Prime Minister does not agree that what a government should do at any time is also to make the difficult choices that are right for Denmark in the long economic field, and not just the easy choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140819	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140821	You can blame this government and the Prime Minister too much, but probably not for our inability to make some difficult choices when it comes to this. Paragraph 1, the National Bank and the wise men support the fact that it is responsible to do what we do. Paragraph 2 before the war broke out in Ukraine and it can potentially change economic policy in Denmark too; we can return to that, just to hold on, we had the highest growth in 27 years, the lowest unemployment rate for 12 years, and we had the highest employment ever. There have never been so many people working in Denmark before as there are right now. It is hard to say that the ratios are not good and that they do not give us the best conditions into the future too. This does not mean that we should not continue to reform ourselves and that there are no things we can do better and wiser. Perhaps, in conclusion, it could also be an appeal for more blue parties, when we make reforms, to come into the room and take responsibility, including for the unpopular decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140929	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. We move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322140943	Thank you, President. Last Tuesday I asked the Minister for Food what he thinks about the animal ethical aspects of possibly resuming mink production in Denmark. I asked the question because, in many people's view, minkhold is a major animal welfare problem, for example. The Animal Health Council has said that keeping mink in small cages is unacceptable. Mink is such a very territorial animal, which mostly occurs alone in nature, and therefore it is incredibly stressful for them to live closely up and down each other in small cages. Mink is also what is called semi-aquatic animals. They have swimming skin between their toes, which means that they from nature are really, really fond of water and hunt in water, and you have to say that there is not so much water in a mink cage. So I asked the Minister for Food what he thought about the animal ethical aspects now, as the Danish Parliament will soon have to decide whether we should resume mink production in Denmark. He was certainly impossible to wring an answer out of, which is why I am now asking the question directly to the Prime Minister. And I understand that mink production was stopped for health reasons and that it is waiting for what the Statens Serum Institute thinks about the public health aspect of mink production. But the Prime Minister has told me in this Chamber recently that she is very concerned about animal welfare, and so is the government. So what does the Prime Minister think about the animal welfare aspects of resuming mink production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141110	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141113	Thank you for that question too. I would like to make it very clear that the only reason why there is a temporary ban on mink production in Denmark is public health. There are no other elements involved. So when we take a new position on the government's side on this issue, it is a public health issue and there are not all sorts of other aspects in it. And if there is no medical argument that you cannot have mink in Denmark, we will be prepared to have mink production again in Denmark. I would like to make this very, very clear: it is only public health considerations that determine the temporary ban that is now in place. Then there is another discussion about animal welfare, and the discussion we had at the latest down here, if I remember correctly, is the question of organic chickens, chickens, where you have ■ I do not actually know how you have done it ■ bred their egg production, so it is now of such a nature that, if I understand correctly, they break their breast muscle, even though they are organic hens. It shows something about the fact that there are animal welfare challenges in total agricultural production, and I certainly think we should discuss them and see if we can deal with them, but when it comes to the temporary ban on mink production, it is for the sake of public health, and if it lapses at some point, we will be prepared to resume production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141232	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141234	So I understand that the animal ethical conditions surrounding mink production do not matter at all in relation to the possible resumption of production. However, Section 3 of the Animal Welfare Act states: "Everyone keeping animals must ensure that they are treated with care, including that they are housed, fed, watered and cared for, taking into account their physiological, behavioural and health needs in accordance with recognised practical and scientific experience. Now it is the case that several countries in Europe are dropping mink production for animal welfare reasons too, and when we look at this legislation, which is of course compromised, at least if we are to take it literally, in the mink industry, does the Prime Minister think that the way that has been kept mink in Denmark so far meets the animal welfare requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141330	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141331	I am simply not in a position to assess that, I must be honest with you. The only reason I myself have been involved in a discussion about mink in Denmark is public health and the problems that were with covid-19. I do not know about the production conditions around mink, just as I must be honest in saying that I also have no close knowledge of the production conditions of chickens and chickens, for example, or other production animals in Denmark. I am generally in favour of our treating our animals properly in Denmark, and I know that when we have production animals we are now talking about chickens, chickens before they can be faced with some challenges, and that is something you can say, under animal welfare laws and discussions. However, when it comes to a temporary ban on mink production, it is defined in relation to public health, and again, if it changes at some point, I would also say that the basis for the ban will lapse.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141427	Sir. Torsten Gejl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141429	We also have a question from one of our members every time, and it is Canute Anker Iversen who asks: The Prime Minister has announced that the Prime Minister is now green before she is red. How does the government's new green policy differ in practice in relation to the past? That is what our Member would like to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141459	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141501	In fact, it is the decisions we have taken, quite often together, over the last three years that have taken away my own reservations. I must be honest and say that I was concerned when we started almost three years ago, because whether we could really achieve a 70-percent target and be as ambitious on climate as many would like us to be. I was afraid that it would put our cohesion, our relatively small inequality and low unemployment at risk. I was afraid that what happened elsewhere would happen. I have to say that, despite a pandemic for over two years, I actually think that a majority in Denmark has been able to show for almost three years now that one can be one of the countries in the world that want to be the most climate-oriented and the most ambitious, while at the same time having a strong welfare society and that unemployment is not just galloped off without, by the way, having had conflicts between country and city or province and capital, or what one might have feared it might look like. So it is really the joint decisions that I dare say: now we go all in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322141610	Thank you! Thank you. Since no more party leaders have asked for the floor, Question Time is over and so I now call for the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142429	The sitting is resumed. Today there is the following review: Christian Juhl (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 192 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection of veterinary workers in the field of veterinary X-rays). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142446	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142546	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 52 of Camilla Fabricius (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 28 (S), against 68 (V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 52 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 51 by Pernille Skipper (EL), Astrid Carøe (SF) and Christina Thorholm (RV), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 25 votes (SF, RV, EL and FG), 71 abstentions (S, V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)). Proposal for adoption No V 51 rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 53 of Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen (V), Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF) and Ole Birk Olesen (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 32 (V, KF and LA), against 62 (S, SF, RV, EL, DF, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 2 (NB). Proposal for adoption No V 53 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142722	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142735	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 2 (NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142758	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142813	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL and FG), against voting 45 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA and Karina Adsbøl (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142833	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142848	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 95 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, FG and Karina Adsbøl (UFG)) voted against 2 (NB), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142908	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142928	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour, 96 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG and Karina Adsbøl (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142946	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322142959	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL and FG), against voting 39 (V, KF, DF and Karina Adsbøl (UFG)), abstention 4 (NB, LA). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143019	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143036	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour of 96 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, FG and Karina Adsbøl (UFG)), against 2 (NB), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143057	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to comment on the amendment? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143119	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Employment. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143124	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143128	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143147	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Nobody wants to speak. As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143206	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of the Minister for Employment as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143210	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143218	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that it is I who have been decisive in the fact that a division of this bill has been made, and I have asked for this because, firstly, it is not connected, but, secondly, because the part that is now called Bill No. L 115 B is the most purely symbolic policy I have seen for many years in relation to the employment effort. The whole purpose of these three bills is to get more labour, but there won't be one extra employee out of the fact that this initiative is being taken, which is only about making increased punishments on those who are so unlucky not to have got a job. That is why it is at least important for me to have the opportunity to vote against this symbolically-political approach to the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143309	Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143316	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 89 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 8 (EL and FG), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143343	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143358	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 84 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF and FG), against voting 5 (NB, LA and 1 (DF) (by mistake)), abstentions 8 (DF, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143420	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143437	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 32 (V, DF, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against 61 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF and FG), abstentions 4 (NB, LA). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143459	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322143516	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-13, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF, DF, NB and FG) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of 26 votes (SF, EL, DF, NB and FG), 72 abstentions (S, V, RV, KF, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 15, adopted by the Committee, or on Amendment No 15, adopted by the Committee. 16 to vote by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. There are no more votes, which is why we are taking a few minutes' break.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144021	We'll resume the meeting. The debate is open and we shall give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144047	Thank you for that, President. I think this is the first time I have ever had to run up a speaker in a row. It is quite true that today we have to deal with motion for a resolution B 50 on openness and transparency in the records of municipal care for the elderly. It was tabled on 25 November last year by Kirsten Normann Andersen and Trine Torp of the Socialist People's Party. With the proposal, the proposers will impose on the government by 1 March of this year at the latest, but let it be a detail to put forward a bill to allow citizens in municipal care to have access to all records, notes and personal data corresponding to the rights of citizens in the field of health via health.dk. There must also be a logbook in which citizens can see who has had access to their records. The proposers believe that there should be approximately the same transparency in the treatment of sensitive information in municipal care for the elderly as in the health sector. This is necessary in order to create the same openness in the municipalities, so that citizens can feel safe in the meeting with e.g. elderly care. According to the authors of the motion for a resolution, it can at the same time help to wipe out uncertainty and prejudice when you, as a citizen, can see what has been written and who has confessed to it. I would like to start by stating that this government fully supports the fact that all citizens, including our older citizens, must have easy access to their own data in the public administration. Initiatives have already been launched in this area, which I will discuss in more detail shortly. I would also like to emphasise that the government has a strong focus on openness and trust in municipal care for the elderly. In addition to transparency about citizens' data, the focus is on restoring confidence in employees and their professionalism and judgment, and it is about removing unnecessary documentation and registration, so that employees' time instead can be spent on core tasks in the care of the elderly. So back to the more concrete. There is already a work in progress to develop My Overview at borger.dk. My overview shows selected essential data that the public sector has on the individual citizen. My overview will be gradually expanded towards 2024, so that data from different sector areas will be connected over time. My Overview is developed by the Digitalization Authority in collaboration with municipalities, regions and government authorities. The extension with data from municipal areas such as: the elderly are regularly agreed as part of the economic agreement between the government and the municipalities. With the economic agreements for 2021 and 2022, it has been agreed that selected cases and interventions in the area of the elderly will be made available at My Overview in the course of this year, i.e. 2022. My overview not only gives older citizens insight into information from the agreed areas; it will also provide a better digital overview of cases, benefits, payments, deadlines and agreements across the public sector, i.e. across state, regions and municipalities. My overview therefore provides what the motion for a resolution calls for and more. If, as proposed, a separate IT solution is to be created in the area of the elderly, it will probably be very expensive. The proposal itself refers to health.dk as a model, and I can tell you that 50 million were allocated. kr. to the establishment of health.dk, which was launched in 2003. The motion for a resolution does not offer an economy for a separate solution for the elderly. Nor does the resolution relate to funding, nor is it something we discussed in connection with the Finance Act when we had discussions there. As I have said, initiatives have already been taken to provide citizens with better insight into data that the public sector has on the individual citizen. This includes, among other things: selected cases and interventions in the area of older people, and it is expected to be continuously expanded. A separate solution that runs for itself in the area of the elderly must be assumed to be costly and, at the same time, I can also be concerned that this could lead to increased bureaucracy in our care for the elderly. It will be the most user-friendly for citizens if information in the public sector is to be found in one place rather than in several separate solutions and approaches. So, although the government is fully in line with the intentions and what it wants to achieve with the proposal, we believe that the right way to go is through My Overview and therefore the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144505	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144510	Thank you. I totally understand that My Overview is under behavior. It can show what agreements have been made. It is information that citizens already receive through their e-Boks. This proposal is more and more about recognising that municipalities are taking on more and more tasks that have previously been the subject of health care, i.e. further processing of vulnerable citizens and weakened citizens, but the information does not follow. It is a fact that at the nursing home you have no access to see what kind of medical records you have made in the hospital, and vice versa. And that actually means that today we have two places to deal with the same vulnerable citizens without the systems talking together and without the citizen being able to see for himself that things are connected. What is the Minister's idea of how to deal with this in the care of the elderly in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144613	Thank you. It is clear that from both a citizen's perspective and an employee's perspective there are some connections where there are issues with different documentation systems. This may mean something both for the working procedures and, as the questioner refers to, for the citizen's overview or, in many cases, for the relatives' overview, because we are dealing with weakened citizens. That is why I am thinking that, in addition to the bill we adopted jointly before Christmas, which allows us to exchange certain information between the municipalities and the health care sector in relation to the agreements on treatment and care, some of the discussions we will have in connection with the discussion on a new law on the elderly will be how we can ensure better opportunities for interdisciplinary cooperation and organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144705	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144712	I just don't think the minister is answering what I'm asking. I agree with the Minister that there is a need for more interdisciplinary cooperation. This is the whole prerequisite for the functioning of the close and coherent healthcare system in the future. However, if we are not allowed to exchange information and if we do not have access to information from one another, we will be able to stand in the hospital wondering why this citizen has only entered the emergency room one day after he has fallen because he has no access to the considerations that have been made before the citizen is sent. On the other hand, when the patient returns home, there is not the same access to information about what has been done in the nursing home. How is the Minister going to resolve this lack of communication between sectors?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144753	Thank you. Some of this is, of course, about ensuring that there will be a legal basis for sharing information in the areas where it is needed. We have recently extended access to this by means of a legislative proposal that we adopted before Christmas. And probably we have not finished discussing how best to design documentation, both in order to address the issues raised by the questioner, but also in order to be able to relate to how we can ensure that we have the best possible cooperation between the professional groups. I also do not see how the motion for a resolution here on better access for citizens themselves to their data solves the whole problem, but I think we can have the opportunity to further clarify it in committee, both the parallel to health.dk, what My Overview can and cannot do and what we have made possible by recent legislative changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144837	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. And then we start with the rapporteur's line. The first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Theis Chicken Hommeltoft. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322144850	Thank you very much. Thanks to the SF for raising the debate on openness and transparency in e.g. medical records in the municipal care of the elderly. For social democracy, it is very important that the elderly have an influence on their own everyday life. Just because you get old doesn't stop wanting to have influence and codecision. Of course, this also means that you can gain insight into your own data. That is why I also agree with the intention that we should ensure more openness and that it should be easier to provide important information for both the elderly and the relatives. That is why we are also very open to developing the opportunities that already exist today. Having said that, I think we should consider how we deal with it. First of all, it costs a lot of money to develop new IT solutions, and we already have digital platforms such as health.dk and My Overview, and as we also heard from the Minister, there is already work to develop existing platforms with data in the area of older people. We in the Danish Parliament have adopted L 63, which makes it possible to show agreements with, for example, home help on health.dk, and it is agreed in the economic agreements with the municipalities to expand My Overview of data in the area of older people in the years to come as more data becomes available. It is, of course, a work that we support. I also think it is important that we work as far as possible to develop the platforms that we already have, rather than creating new platforms on which we need to focus our attention. We already have a large number of platforms and apps used for communication between citizens and authorities, and the question is, of course, whether more is the way forward; I hardly think it will be a hit in Aabenraa where I come from and where my parents should have their old age. At the same time, we also get into a discussion about what should actually be recorded and written down. Because when we have a platform, it needs data. Who should provide the data, how much should be recorded, and what should be recorded? And basically, why should it be recorded? Because we need to use the data meaningfully for both the individual elderly and the employees, and that must be the prerequisite. However, I cannot help thinking about where the time of the employees is best spent: at the computer or at the individual citizen? Of course, I have no doubt. In the Social Democratic Party we have just a desire to reduce the amount of documentation in the care of the elderly and leave more to the wishes of the elderly and the professional judgement of the employees. That is why we have made welfare agreements with three municipalities, where they are freed from much state regulation in this area, and that is why the Prime Minister in his New Year speech spoke for a new law on the elderly with clear values and with fewer documentation requirements. Of course there will still be a need for documentation, but we must always remember to ask ourselves, for whose sake we actually record and collect data. We cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands, but we hope that in committee we can take the discussion and reach agreement on a joint report. In conclusion, I would just like to emphasise that we share the desire for more openness and we would like to continue the work of giving older people better insight into their own data, but this must be done in a way that will make it easy and transparent and without developing new bureaucracy in the public sector. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145249	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145253	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I fully agree that we must avoid unnecessary documentation. I am also one of those who is extremely sorry that the municipalities developed their own documentation system without an eye for how they might be able to think together in the future. And yet I have listened to the fact that it is an opportunity that the systems should be able to talk in the future. At least it has succeeded in relation to the common medical card, you might say. So in some places it works after all. We need to get rid of excessive documentation, but when my old father was in the hospital, it was very important that we could sit down afterwards, look at the file and see what had actually been agreed and get a common understanding of it, because it is not always understood in the situation. Exactly the same needs may arise when you make professional decisions, including in the care of the elderly, and it's fine that we have to trust that I do, but there are many different people who also need to have many different professional assessments, and therefore it makes sense that we can discuss this professional decision and have a common understanding of what has been agreed so that no misunderstandings arise. Doesn't that make sense?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145407	I understand the point of what the questioner would like to do with this. What is really important for the Social Democrats is that we should, first of all, think about funding, because it is not free to come in and solve these things, and we do not have that in place at this stage. As I said, we clearly share the intention that there should be increased access to data, but we just need to have the discussion going on about what kind of data we would like to have. And there I think we might have to deal with it a little differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145439	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145441	I recognise that there is a funding issue, but we are currently negotiating old people's law, we are negotiating health law, we are negotiating 10-year psychiatry plan, and this is all something where the systems need to talk to each other in order to be able to do better. I personally believe that we can both streamline and create more quality if both staff have access to information from the various sectors and the citizen himself has access to follow what has been agreed between the various sectors, or perhaps get help with it. Wouldn't it make sense to think this with now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145518	Well, it could certainly make sense, but there are many areas of health care where it would make sense for the systems to speak better together. Personally, I have experience of crossing a regional border and then suddenly having paper documents with me. So there are several places where we should start, and perhaps we should take a holistic perspective on it and just look at it on the big scale in the first place and then work our way down into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145544	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145549	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur says that there is a great deal of bureaucracy. That is why I would also like to hear what the Socialist rapporteur wants to do away with bureaucracy. What is it that is no longer required to document? Is that fluid schema, is that stool schema? What does the rapporteur think should be done away with? And is it not true that much of the bureaucracy that has been created is something which the municipalities themselves have created in their own municipality and which is not imposed on them by us? That was one thing. And then I am surprised when the rapporteur says that you should be able to see what the public is writing about you, but at the same time will not support a proposal about what the SF is putting forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145634	I'll start from behind and answer the last one first, I think. This is precisely the way we do things, in other words how we address the problems that we in the Social Democratic Party challenge. There is some work going on right now, and it may be that you have to look into whether it should be developed or how we do it. That is also why we are launching a debate in committee. But pulling it down one-off around the care of the elderly doesn't mean I'm right right now. No, I don't. In relation to where I can say in concrete terms that we must abolish bureaucracy, I do not know either, because that is not my professionalism. But this is precisely the dialogue that we should also have time to enter with the municipalities and with the individual employee, for it is they who are the experts, as you yourself point out, and not us in here. So I'm not gonna stand here and answer that from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145727	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145728	I find that strange. After all, there is a job that the former minister set in motion in relation to reducing bureaucracy, and that did not come out so much when it comes to reducing this bureaucracy. And when the rapporteur stands on the floor and talks about reducing bureaucracy, the rapporteur must tell us where it is that we have to take action to reduce bureaucracy. What is it you don't have to document anymore? What is it you as a relative shouldn't be able to go in and see? What should not be documented as an employee in order to free up these warm hands that the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145801	Well, unfortunately, I can't be any more specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145809	Then it's Mrs. Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145812	The rapporteur attaches great importance to the fact that documentation is bureaucracy. Does the rapporteur not recognise that many of the people who are in home care and in our nursing homes are people with many chronic illnesses, weakened elderly people who rely on documentation because, for example, they do not get enough to drink or they have signs of urinary tract infection or they have to have pills at the right times? These are situations where it is crucial that there is systematic documentation and where, if relatives got an insight into the documentation, it would help to create a quality assurance in relation to the fact that it was followed up where the gaps were and where the employees knew that some others looked into this, so there might be a focus on dignity around the care around the elderly. Yes, it is a question of why the rapporteur is so critical of documentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145916	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322145919	After all, it is not the documentation that saves or improves the quality of life for the elderly, but it is precisely the actions that give the elderly the increased quality of life. I must also honestly admit that what I have to relate to at this time is my own time, when I was an assistant at, among other things. nursing home. One of the things that was very important to me back then was to have the communication with both the elderly, but also the relatives, so when they came, I took the time. This should not be the case if we prove that we have done what we need to do, because there is still a human relationship with both the elderly and the relatives who need to be guaranteed, because they are people we are dealing with. I think this is going to be a very technical approach to things around it, so if we just document a little, they can read it in a system, and then we're really home safe. I do not think that is necessarily true, and that is why I think it is important that we do this properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150017	Mrs Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150019	It is also because the rapporteur attaches so much importance to criticism of documentation in his speech. I think that documentation and care, in the presence of the elderly, go hand in hand. These are two sides of the same coin, and if we fail to do so, we only walk on one leg, and one walking on one leg goes more lame or slow. It is therefore important to recognise both perspectives into the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150045	As I said, I recognise that documentation is important, but there are also differences between people. There will also be some elderly people who do not have the great interest in going in to check their documentation, and do you have to document everything there as well? Perhaps that is where there should be a weighting for the individual and a dialogue where you ask: What is it you need?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150108	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150133	Thank you for the floor. I am standing here on behalf of Mrs Jane Heitmann, who unfortunately could not be here today. How do we ensure that our elderly can live dignified old age now and in the future? That question can be asked many times, and there are not many answers. But one thing is certain: we must safeguard and strengthen the rights of our older fellow citizens and ensure good living conditions until the day life runs out. It deserves our older people after a lifetime in which they have worked hard for themselves, their families and society. For us in the Left, it is a clear priority that older people have the freedom to live the life they have chosen; the freedom to choose the care that suits them, municipal or private; the freedom to choose where they want to live, municipal or free-care homes; the freedom to choose the food they like best, and, above all, the supplier, to mention just a few examples of freedom and freedoms that make life worth living. When we in the Left emphasize freedom, it is because freedom creates value and makes sense for the individual, for the family and for society. When I start by pointing out freedom, as I do, it is because, in addition to being concerned about freedom for the individual, we in the Left are also concerned about transparency, especially when it comes to own information ■ in these cases municipal health information. I would therefore like to thank the Socialist People's Party for tabling a relevant motion for a resolution, namely on openness and transparency in the records of municipal care for the elderly. One wonders, of course, that there is so much difference between what health information you have access to, depending on whether we are talking about the health information of the regions or the local authorities. We are in the Left positive to look at how we can provide better insight for elderly people who are searched for care and how to connect access to their own medical records and health data so that it is more similar to what we know about health and www.health.dk. We also believe that it is common sense to look at whether you can add some kind of logbook so that older people can keep track of who has access to their own file and log in to either search or add information. Journal access is a way of involving and informing citizens about their own circumstances, as well as providing relatives with the opportunity to gain insight if the elderly have allowed access. The lesson of so many inquiries in my inbox is that relatives are often sidelined and not involved as the resource they are. It is no secret that we on the Left would like to see boards at all municipal nursing homes, so relatives have better opportunities to influence their loved ones' everyday life, care and care. We have seen far too many neglects of care and management in recent years. It has to be stopped. In Denmark we have a golden egg in the form of health data. Health data play an important role in diagnosing, sharing information between professionals, organising and performing work, and not least in relation to prevention and patient history. In the end, health data creates a connection for the patient or the elderly, and being open also about the medical record benefits the quality of the health and care sector when the records are updated by professional professionals. Health data should help create value for the citizen. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. For while nursing staff are free to access citizens' data, citizens cannot see where anything is written or know how or by whom information is used in the municipal sector upfront in the same way as health data can be used. So citizens' needs are not at the heart of the system. We must be able to do better than that. I would like to stress that the resolution is sympathetic, just as it makes sense to look at how we can achieve more transparency on the journaling front. Nevertheless, we cannot support the proposal in its present form; the proposers have not indicated funding, and it is not free to introduce, for example. log systems. However, there should be no doubt that the Left supports the intention of the resolution, namely more openness and transparency for our elderly people in accessing their own municipal health data.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150551	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and that is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150554	Thank you for that and thank you for meeting the intention of the proposal. The rapporteur spent a great deal of time talking about private institutions and about free elections for the citizen. But private institutions have the same need to access information from, for example, the hospital, and the citizen does not have access to his own data at the private institution, let alone data from private specialists and others who do not share information or are part of the public record system. What are the rapporteur's thoughts on the close and coherent health care system? What is the prerequisite for us to make it really work so that we can share information and use information and information from elsewhere and use it actively with our citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150652-2	Thank you for the question. I am not the rapporteur now, as I said at the outset. However, I think that these are very good questions that the rapporteur is asking. We ourselves also have several things that we would like to see introduced. As the rapporteur could also hear, we are concerned about this and we would really like to do something more. But we in the Left believe that we should be free to choose, because that offers more opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150721	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322150743	Thank you to the SF for making this proposal. A dignified care for the elderly with security, care and professional quality in care is essential for the Radical Left. We attach importance to openness and citizens' access to their own records and notes, as we believe that it will strengthen the professional effort and documentation and in some places also an awareness of human perception and dignity. Access to their own records and personal notes in municipal care for the elderly corresponding to the rights of citizens in health care via health.dk will create confidence and knowledge on how to work with a physical or social problem. The government is in the process of accessing more data through My Overview. Whether these measures will provide the same transparency is unclear and we will be aware of that in the negotiations. We believe that greater transparency will provide a better basis for cooperation with the citizen and the next of kin. When Social Democracy talks about the use of documentation, they talk mainly about bureaucratic elements that need to be minimized. This seems to us to be in stark contrast to the fact that many elderly people have more chronic disorders, where continuity in care is crucially important. It is important that it is the same care and the necessary care; that the elderly get their pills the necessary number of times a day; to avoid hospitalizations by previously registering signs of dehydration and urinary tract infection, which are examples of what often cost a hospitalization for an older citizen. The Radical Left believes that documentation is an essential tool for following up systematic action against the citizen, which could otherwise be left to a more random effort, where different employees meet the citizen. It sounds reasonable that there should be a log so that the citizen can see who has had access to the file, because it provides greater security with regard to sensitive information, and that is a respect that we owe to the citizen. We would like to know more about the possibilities in such a system and we would like to stress that this will mean a focus on professionalism, dignity and respect in the employees' meeting with the citizen. We would like to know whether, in any other way, we can grant the right to own journal notes if the introduction of the system costs so much that we cannot find funding for it. This could be a step towards greater transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322151035	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322151050	The Enhedslisten agrees with the proposers that we must ensure that citizens in municipal care have access to their medical records, as is the case in the health sector, so that citizens can see what has been written about you, and we also agree that it must be the case that citizens must, of course, be able to see who has had access to their medical records. We therefore fully agree with the intention of the proposal to create more transparency and openness, but, as noted by others, we have noted that there is no funding for the proposal and that, therefore, it can, by its very nature, be unclear what the cost is. We need to get a closer look at how it will affect the workflows in the care of the elderly, how many resources are to be used in relation to these new tasks. Having said that, I would like to stress that I am hearing the debate on the elderly at the moment, that we must now completely release the area from documentation, and I think it is very important that in this debate we should be a little sharp on what can actually be characterised as unnecessary administration and unnecessary documentation, and I think that everything about the citizen being at the centre of our care for the elderly is really important, that the citizen should have insight into the help she receives, whether it be the health system or the care of the elderly. That is why I would also like to say, following on from this, that issues of greater transparency and enhanced rights for citizens do not seem to me to be in the category of superfluous administration or unnecessary documentation. But, of course, as others have said, it is important to clarify how resource-intensive it will be, so that we can add to the economy that is actually needed, and I am quite sure that the proposers agree with me that, of course, we must add to the economy that is needed, because although I fully agree that this type of documentation is needed, it should not, of course, be at the expense of the time available for the direct care and care of citizens today, but it is time and resources that must be added, so that the time that is available, and it should be more efficient than possible, can be spent as well and efficiently as possible. So, as we have seen, we think that further consideration of the proposal is needed, but therefore a very clear handshake that we support the intention of this proposal. I note that Mrs Kirsten Normann mentioned that we are about to negotiate on older legislation, the future of care for the elderly, which has already begun negotiations on health, and of course it must be the case that if we can hopefully draw up a joint report on this, it is something that we do not have to wait to act on for another good time, but something that we can then take on board in the negotiations that we are going to have in the two areas. So a commitment that we fully support the intention and not just the abstract, we also believe that we should get a report quickly so that we can bring it into the negotiations that are about to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322151426	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322151444	Thank you. Thank you very much to the SF and Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen for tabling this motion for a resolution, which I am taking in the Chamber today instead of our older rapporteur, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be present. For us Conservatives, there are several important considerations that need to be weighed against each other when we discuss this resolution. We must limit the amount of documentation that we impose on our staff in the care of the elderly, because every time you look in the computer or in your iPad to mark a cross, you are mentally absent from the elderly that you are facing. Nothing good will come of that. Many of the records that are taking place today are based precisely on health legislation, where there may be serious reasons to prove this. It may be very sensitive to people that need to be documented, and therefore we share the wish of the proposers that a logbook should allow us to see who is accessing the information exactly as we know it from the health services today, as the motion for a resolution explains. We also support in general terms the need for citizens to have access and to be able to access the data recorded about themselves. Conversely, we are also open to discuss whether there can be information that employees should have the opportunity to share with each other, which does not necessarily have to reach the elderly in the first place. It can be concern or observation or something else that you need to discuss with a colleague and where you can be unsure about how to do it before involving the elderly. It might be interesting to discuss it in the committee room. So, on the whole, we certainly have sympathy for this motion for a resolution from the SF; however, we do not see that there is any visible economy in the proposal, neither what it is expected to cost to implement it nor how the proposers want to provide this funding. It would have been relevant knowledge to have pre-discussions in the Chamber today, but it may well be that it could be mapped out in the committee proceedings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322151710	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322151745	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we do not mean that you should have fewer rights just because you have grown older. It is therefore also quite wrong that older citizens do not have the same access to their medical records in the care of the elderly as if they had been admitted to the hospital. There are certainly good tactics in this proposal, and I think it is good that the SF makes it. It is a good and important debate to get started. It is actually quite important to be able to access your own file and see who's been looking into it. If we take a citizen who lives in a nursing home and who may find it difficult to remember, it can be a tremendous help for him to be able to read his own file. It may also be that they are relatives who have a mandate to access the file so that they can help protect the interests of the citizen. But that is just not really possible in the area of the elderly today. Of course, you can ask for access to documents, but why should you actually ask why can't you just log in and see them, because it can be done in the health field? There may be many good reasons why an employee should look up a citizen's file, but unfortunately we also sometimes see that access to citizens' records can be misused. I would like to stress that I do not believe that any requirements should be tightened up in relation to the way in which records are kept. It must be the same as today. The care of the elderly is already under pressure, and these warm and committed employees, who care for the elderly, do not need more time in front of the computer. As long as we ensure that we do not impose more and more requirements on the record keeping itself than we do today, I can only welcome the proposal here. As a small additional remark, we should remember the elderly, who may not have a NemID or a MitID that they can use to log in and follow in the journal, so they need to find a solution for them. And those who have a NemID or a MitID, which may not be so strong in the digital, should be able to count on the staff to help them log in and show them the information they are looking for. Not everyone is so lucky that they can get help from family, children and grandchildren, but they must have the same right to own information as all of us. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322152017	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322152038	Of course, when you get older, you have to have the same opportunities that you have had throughout your life. And I must admit that when I saw this motion for a resolution, I thought: yes, of course. Why is this not so already? For of course, you must be able to access your information as well as you have the opportunity to access your health information on health. In the new citizens we support this motion for a resolution. And I should like to say from the Liberal Alliance that they also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322152108	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the Free Greens... I don't see anybody. Then we move on to KD. I don't see anybody. Then we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322152135	Thank you for that, President. We should have first treated this back in January, so I had made a speech. So I thought that I would stand on the platform today and thank SF for this proposal, which is, of course, about openness and transparency in records in municipal home care, in elderly care, and the proposal must also give citizens in municipal care access to all records, notes and personal data corresponding to the rights of citizens in health care via health care.dk., and there must be a logbook where citizens can see who has access to their medical records. This makes very good sense, and I support transparency and the fact that citizens have access to their own information. It is also crucial that older citizens and possibly relatives who have a mandate can follow what is recorded about the citizen, so I welcome the proposal. At the same time, I also think it is worth looking at how to guarantee elderly citizens who use private care services, the same rights and opportunities. It is important that it should not be the case that, by using free choice, one is placed at a disadvantage in relation to gaining insight into one's own circumstances. It is also important to look after older workers when implementing proposals such as this. For example: It should be possible for employees to register with initials or ID numbers so that they do not have to be afraid that they might be visited outside working hours because of something they have written or listed about a citizen in the journal. I have been rapporteur on many proposals in this Parliament for the benefit of the elderly, among others. Unfortunately, there was no support for this proposal to regulate the clipboard scheme. I have also been rapporteur on an old people's law, for which there was no support, and I have also been rapporteur on ensuring nursing home boards in our nursing home. But I hope that together we can help to secure at least this proposal so that the elderly can have the right to their own information. So I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322152349	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And then we can move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322152358	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the many responses to the proposal to provide older people with insight into their own data in care for the elderly. I think that this is an important proposal, which I have also been so inspired in private when my old father asked: What do they write about me? And in a small community you can also get a little concerned about: I wonder if all the neighbors know what's going on in here with me. Of course, you should not sit back with that insecurity. I myself have been a family member for a number of years, and that is why I have also found that the close and coherent health care that we are all talking about really increases the need for transparency, and that increases the need for us to become clearer in relation to what legislation health professionals are working for. This is an issue that I also think we should focus on when it is the case that we are talking about a new law on the elderly right now. It is my experience in the care of the elderly that health professionals take a great deal of thought about both prevention, treatment and care and about the results of the interventions, and this is important knowledge for both the patient and other health partners. Both the patient and the health care system can become wiser if we ensure more transparency and, above all, more clarity as to what considerations the health care staff have made in relation to the state of the citizen. So there is a difference between me falling or a weakened citizen falling. I can judge for myself whether there is a need to go to the emergency room, but that just doesn't apply to an elderly, weakened citizen. It will very often be the employees who consider whether to look at the time or whether there is a need to drive to the emergency room immediately. Healthcare considerations will depend not only on the patient's own statements, but also largely on objective assessments such as blood pressure, heart rate, pain and consciousness. It is information that would have been available if the patient had fallen to a hospital, but if it were in the care of the elderly, it is only the care of the elderly that has access to this information. But in a number of other areas too, it makes sense to give older people a little more insight into health considerations. Many chronic diseases can be kept in check if we have great attention to symptoms and also act on them. A small wound can be very serious for a diabetic patient. Fluid deficiency may result in urinary tract infections. Constipation can be a consequence of a number of diseases or be side effects to medications. A bleeding is extra serious for a patient receiving blood thinning medicines. Inability to move increases the risk of pressure wounds. And bedridden patients are at increased risk of pneumonia. These are just some of the many challenges that healthcare professionals face every day. I think it is important for the professional skills of the staff that we show real recognition of the many important observations and considerations that are being made in everyday life in the care of the elderly. I believe that it will increase respect between hospital staff and healthcare staff in the care of the elderly if we are mutually aware of the considerations that have been made in the various sectors. I believe that it will increase confidence and respect for municipal health care if citizens have the same access to see and understand the considerations that have been made, in the same way as people have insight into the considerations that healthcare professionals make in hospitals. And I think we can save time and workflows if we use information and observations that have already been made once instead of doing it again. Will it mean more bureaucracy? I think it is crucial that we do not confuse important health considerations and the documentation of them with bureaucracy. Important medical considerations are, instead, a prerequisite for us to be able to effectively prevent unnecessary admissions, just to take one example. However, it is also essential for citizens to be able to feel secure about the decisions taken on their treatment. Is this a lack of trust, as some have also indicated here? On the contrary. I know that many skilled health workers in the care of the elderly are taking a great deal of thought and important considerations that are relevant to investigation and treatment, but these are often also considerations that do not reach the doctor or health care staff in other sectors at all. Making data available to the citizen will also mean that the citizen can safely make data available to healthcare professionals in other sectors. It is not easy to give consent to sharing information with other sectors if you do not even know what data is being shared. It is simply a prerequisite for the close and coherent health care that we use information that others have written, and it is a prerequisite for the safety of the citizen that information about considerations and decisions is available. The municipalities recently said that we cannot speak the law of the elderly without health. I agree. I fully agree that this is a prerequisite. Now is the time to negotiate the law on the elderly. This is the time for us to negotiate health law. It is also now that we are negotiating a 10-year psychiatry plan. In fact, I believe that things are connected and I think it is important that we create the coherence that is lacking in the overall health care system and the proposal has been put forward for the same reason. I am listening to the fact that there is support for discussing this further in committee, possibly through a report, but I will probably also be very concerned that we may find common ground on how we can also ensure that this element is an important element to be included in the work on a health law, on an elderly law, on a psychiatry plan, so that we can really create the close and coherent health care and create more confidence on behalf of citizens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153012	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153046	The debate is open. We shall first give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153056	Thank you for that, President. The proposers of the motion for a resolution here write that there is a much greater need to make room for the professionalism of employees, so that the main focus is on quality and not on unnecessary bureaucracy and regulation. The government fully agrees that we need to find the core of our welfare: the relationships, presence, care, the skills of the employees. Therefore, the Prime Minister already invited all municipalities in his New Year's speech to conclude welfare agreements with the government. For almost four decades, changing governments have been trying to put an end to the heavy bureaucracy with limited success, because it is difficult. Often there are good and reasonable reasons why individual rules have been introduced, but when we keep laying down new rules and new requirements upstairs, it takes time from the core task. It is the government's clear ambition to get rid of bureaucracy by releasing municipalities, institutions and schools from all unnecessary regulation, on the one hand, and engaging municipalities, on the other, to free daily services, schools and care for the elderly from municipal regulation in this area on the other. Over the years, there has been a series of experiments to contribute to the elimination of procedural requirements and documentation. For example, municipalities have for a number of years been freed from individual rules in concrete trial procedures through free municipalities. That has come out of very fine things, but it has, we can see today, been far from sufficient. That is why we will now proceed quite differently and more fundamentally with welfare agreements for all municipalities throughout the country. Instead of sitting with the lacquer and removing a single rule of state law here and a single rule there, we set the welfare agreements the leaders and the employees free. When we have that approach, it is also based on the recognition that the free municipalities' attempts were so bureaucratic for the municipalities that we could finally see that interest decreased and that KL actually called for them not to be there anymore. On the contrary, the welfare agreements, which reflect the new approach, constitute a complete liberation within selected central fence posts, such as: ensure that children receive education and that older people receive the help they need. At the same time, we also ask the municipalities to take a critical look at local rules and requirements derived from the contract signed. It is a comprehensive process of change to go through an entire welfare area. We can see this from the seven municipalities that have been going on so far. This requires focus, and it requires commitment and calm in other areas. That is why the government has chosen that approach for now. We need to get back to the core and spend our time properly in our welfare societies. We hope to be able to get the support of the Folketing to continue the welfare agreements, as they are known in the seven municipalities where they are now, with the greatest possible freedom to the municipalities. The government believes that we will best improve the quality of our welfare and ensure that the most important thing comes into focus again across day care, primary school and elderly care, by giving managers and employees greater freedom and thereby also greater responsibility in using their professional skills and providing more welfare. So we have already taken the initiative to spread the current welfare agreements in the three areas of welfare, which are large and are the cornerstones of the close welfare services: day-to-day services, public schools and care for the elderly; areas with which we are all familiar and which form part of the foundation of our welfare society. It may also be relevant to set employees and managers free in other areas in order to find new and meaningful solutions locally, but you have to start somewhere, and that place is day care, primary school and elderly care, where there are already seven municipalities, and where we now invite the rest of the country's municipalities to join, because it requires a strong focus, and because it requires a comprehensive commitment locally, if we are to succeed with this, and we have to succeed better this time than before. This does not, of course, exclude the possibility of other areas being added in the long term, but for now the government believes it is essential that we move forward with the areas where there are seven municipalities in progress, and we look very much forward to negotiating it with the parties of the Folketing and rejecting the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153531	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153534	Thank you and thank you for the Minister's speech. I feel that when we last stood here a year ago and discussed these matters on the basis of a somewhat similar motion for a resolution from the Left, the government rejected it at that time too. It was then impossible to offer it to all the municipalities of the country. It was thought that seven municipalities were enough. Now I can tease a little bit about saying that it is nice that you then open up that all 98 municipalities in the country can actually now join the field but then in these three areas. It's gonna make me ask you a question. Now I also listened to the KL summit here last week, where among others. This subject, too, was part of the agenda. One of the things I noticed was that social democrat Jacob Bundsgaard had a wish that among other things. employment could also be included. Is this something that the Minister will be looking at, i.e. whether it could be an opportunity to open up to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153640	Thank you. If I do not remember quite wrongly from a year ago, it is actually exactly the same resolution that we are debating here today, and one should be welcome to do so. I would like to say that I was also delighted to follow the party leader's debate at the KL Summit last week and, indeed, the debate that was from the municipality of Denmark. There is a great desire and interest to take action, and it is also absolutely necessary and crucial if we are to succeed in the approach that we now have, where it is not one limited experiment, one specific rule that we are exempted from, but where we actually get exemption from virtually all legislation and correspondingly also have to free ourselves. It's a very demanding process. We have been able to see that, even since we were here discussing it last time. For these municipalities it is demanding. It takes quite a lot, namely a strong commitment from the municipality in order to succeed with this. But it is also quite rewarding. That is why we dare now, with the experience we have had in the last year, to let go so much that all the municipalities in the country are invited to join us. But I do not think we should underestimate how much it actually requires of the individual municipality. That is why it must also be within a framework if we are to achieve a goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153748	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153750	I do not think I was given an answer to the question I put to the Minister. Could the Minister consider whether the area of employment could also be set free? It is because I have actually heard it from several municipalities, namely that they have a very great desire to be allowed to make free municipalities attempts in the area of employment too. Because there is also a lot of bureaucracy. So could it be worth considering in some way to bring another area? Now I have to try to cut this elephant into little pieces just to get something. So was that an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153827	I think it is important to maintain that there is no question of free municipalities trying here. For the free municipalities attempts were good and fine, and we gained important experiences from them, but they also had their time and ended up being something that the municipalities experienced as something so troublesome and bureaucratic that it could not answer. So this is a whole new approach. That is why the government's clear starting point will also be that we are negotiating with the parties now. It is very radical to go as far as we have done here, in other words the three areas where seven municipalities have already started. And so I already said in my reply that, of course, this does not rule out the possibility of other areas being added in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153904	Then it's mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153906	There is no doubt that we, too, on the part of the SF, are involved in the fact that the free municipalities had their time and we have to do everything differently. I have a question for the Minister regarding the fact that there is a lot of talk about liberation and about rules. I would like to know whether the Minister can see whether there are other barriers in the municipalities than precise rules that can be a barrier to good welfare. And then I have another question: when will negotiations on these welfare agreements start?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322153942	Thank you. Thank you very much to the SF for being so constructive in this as well. There are certainly other things that may be barriers for us to succeed both with our welfare and that we spend time on the right thing in our welfare, in addition to rules. The fact that you have the basic economy also means what kind of welfare you can provide, whether there is time to care, to the relationship, and that is why I am glad that the current majority has given priority to keeping the money going when there are more children and more older people. You can't take that for granted. There you can just look at the previous government if you want to see what else it could be. Of course, it can also stand in the way of time for care and time for children to learn properly, or time for the educator to breathe on the proposed knee if cuts and savings are to be made as more citizens need help. Then there are many other things that could also stand in the way: culture and management and organisation. It will probably be a bigger discussion than my speaking time here allows me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154040	Then it's mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154042	When does the Minister think that negotiations will be convened?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154051	I look forward very much to quite soon being able to call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on the hopefully being able to extend these welfare agreements to all the municipalities of the country. So it will be very, very soon, in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154101	Then it's Mrs. Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154102	I am surprised that it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly who is here today at the first reading of this matter, because B 63 is also on the agenda for committee reading in the Committee on the Interior and Housing today, and since we are talking about the fact that it is not only the elderly and the social area that are covered, I need to understand why it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly who has this matter today. I thought it was a municipal matter and not a particular area of the elderly and social area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154137	I must be guilty of replying to how the parliamentary committee distributes their work. I was just questioning the President whether it is the Minister who has an influence on which committees are dealing with which motions for resolutions. I can at least say that I have not personally been involved in whether there are several committees dealing with it. But this basic debate about liberation that goes against me, I think I'm quite relevant to take, also with the hat and role I have in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154207	Thank you. Again, it is Mrs Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154209	As it is now, there are welfare agreements in the area of more than older people, and that is fantastic. After all, there is still a restriction, and precisely at the KL summit, employment was really addressed as a possible area. In fact, the climate and the environment were also an area which was desired or which was at least talked about could be an area. So is the government prepared to look at areas other than what is emphasised in the current welfare agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154243-2	Thank you. Well, when you followed that debate at the KL summit, first among the party leaders and then also heard the municipal Denmark discussing, you were simply so pleased that we dared to take such a radical, not in the party's sense, a step that these welfare agreements originally were. Because it was not certain that it would be such a success as it has been. To say that now we are actually releasing from legislative requirements, largely, except a few fence posts, and that you are doing the same municipal, has proven to free up a huge energy and free up some time for caring out there. It has also been shown that it requires quite a lot of commitment from the municipalities, and that is why we in the government think it is sensible that we start with the three well-known areas when we now give all the municipalities the opportunity to do so. However, as I said in my reply to the rapporteur of the Left, this does not mean that other areas can be added in the long term, and I think I heard more areas than just those which the radicals are asking are listed here. There was a great desire to bite to fuck across all sorts of different areas at that summit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154348	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154351	Thank you. I happened to be in Aalborg at the KL Summit, and I also heard the debate, and I also heard that there is a wide range of municipalities, and this is not the first time we have heard it was a desire to do something about employment, because it is enormously heavy and a lot of time is spent on bureaucracy and paper instead of getting out and doing something. So why not just say yes to the fact that, of course, we also have to bring it in as far as possible? We must set the municipalities free, says the minister. This must then also apply to employment. Can't we get a confirmation of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154425	Thank you. Yes, unfortunately this is going to have a bit of a repetition, because the questions also revolve around the same thing, and again I just want to sign for the great desire and commitment that is of that I hope also reflects myself right into the negotiating room to ensure this release. What we can see from the municipalities that have been going on is that it frees up a lot of energy out there. It also frees time for the core task, for the elderly at the nursing home, for the employees to have time for the elderly at the nursing home, for the school child, for the nursery child, but it also requires a huge effort, also because many of these solutions and suggestions have grown from the employees. It has been a largely up-to-date in the various places, and although it is significantly more unbureaucratic than the free municipalities' attempts, it still requires quite a lot of the individual municipalities. That is why, at the moment, where we must spread it to the whole country, we believe that it is most appropriate to do so in the three areas where experience has already been gained. However, as I have said a number of times now, this does not mean that other areas can be included in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154533	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154536	It was good to hear that this does not preclude anything, because then we can take it in, and then we will have to discuss it there. However, I would also like to hear from the Minister when he talks about setting the municipalities very free, whether it is the government's view that there should continue to be such a thing as minimum standards and class ceilings. Because it is also a bureaucratic way of managing that we say from in here that we know what is right out there. So how far is the Minister prepared to go in relation to the release of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154605	The government's starting point for all three areas, i.e. the elderly area, the primary school area and the day-off area, will be that it is the same fence posts that apply to the seven municipalities that are currently in operation, from the national level, which must apply, but that is what needs to be discussed in the school area and in the day-off area with the Minister for Children and Education when the negotiations are about to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154628	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister and we can start with the rapporteur's line, and that is first the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mrs Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322154639	Thank you for the floor. I have received the honour of filling in for the internal rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Birgitte Vind, who unfortunately was unable to be here today as she is attending the session of the Nordic Council. I had to say hello many times. Today we are dealing with a motion for a resolution from the Left which deals with a new system of testing for extended free municipalities in a number of welfare areas. The idea behind the proposal is that all 98 municipalities in Denmark should be able to apply to carry out specific trials in one or more welfare areas. The Left will allow the country's municipalities to be put as free of state regulation as possible in order to provide a larger local trade room to expand welfare and the task solution, and I understand that. It is important that we free the municipalities. Less bureaucracy and more freedom are essential for the future of our welfare. So in the Social Democratic Party we are pleased that the Left is also concerned about this agenda. But we do not think that today's proposal is the right way to go. First of all, local anchoring and local engagement are crucial to the success of this type of experiment. Last time there was an application for free municipalities, where it was about free institutions, there were a very limited number of interested applicants. In fact, only 3 out of 98 municipalities had applied. It is a clear hint with a rod from the municipalities that there is a need for something different and something more than free municipalities. Secondly, in his New Year speech, the Prime Minister invited all 98 municipalities in the country to conclude welfare agreements with the government. Where free communal attempts are limited to applications for individual rules and requirements that is what the minister said about standing with the lacquer... the welfare agreements are a way to reverse the usual logic and release an entire area in a municipality at once. We build up instead of patching and patching and erasing with erase lacquer. We believe that we will go much further. Although the previous free municipalities have been a gain and given some new insights in individual areas, it has never given the basic boost to the municipal welfare that the municipalities need. The welfare agreements are going to change. There are currently seven welfare agreements in the fields of primary, day-care and elderly respectively. Those experiments are well under way and we follow closely how things are going in the municipalities. With the agreements, responsibility is laid out locally in a 3-year trial scheme to try to find new and better ways of improving welfare. We need to move forward step by step, as the experiments go into depths of freedom. In other words, it is not a single rule, but a great many rules in a whole area that we set free at the same time. It's a long and cool job. That is why it must be done wisely and with clear agreements on follow-up and evaluation, and that is why we cannot set all areas free at once. We started with seven municipalities, and now it is time for more people to join in welfare areas that have already been made welfare agreements, namely the primary school, day care and the elderly. Whether we should also look at new areas, the current welfare agreements and time will show. But one thing is certain: the way forward is more welfare agreements, not more free municipalities. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal. In conclusion, I would like to encourage all of you who are listening to the municipalities to catch the ball and start the conversation about how you could develop welfare through a welfare agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155021	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155024	Thank you. Now it is obvious, too, because the Minister has just given me a few words in which I thought I would have to put a question to Mrs Ida Auken. The Minister said that it is very radical to go as far as we do with the welfare agreements. Mrs Ida Auken also mentioned that local anchoring is important and that the municipalities should be set free. But it has to be said that the motion for a resolution is based precisely on what the individual municipalities themselves want, that is to say what they think they want to do. And then I have to say, in relation to whether it's called welfare agreements or free community attempts, or what it does... the child has many names... that if that's what separates us, i.e. whether it's supposed to be called welfare agreements, then I think we can say yes to it. However, I would like to ask Mrs Ida Auken about the very thing about the local anchoring. Was it not an idea, then, that when there are actually municipalities that want to test the area of employment, they say: if you want to, then we want to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155136	The rapporteur is now referring to my murky past, so I will allow myself to refer to my past. Because I've actually been trying to sit with these free municipalities, and that's a different approach. It is a question of local authorities being able to point out some rules in an area; it may be a single rule here or a single rule there that stands in the way. Walking around the other way and saying it's free, it's you who get the responsibility, we make an agreement, is a much more comprehensive approach • call it like radical. I feel really good about doing radical things. So that is a different approach, and that is why I think it is wise to do it properly and to do it thoroughly in these three areas. As the Minister also said, even if there are further areas, there is nothing to be excluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155218	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155219	Fine. But then it may be, when we are here next year, that more areas have been added. I would also like to arrest the fact that it is true when it is said that we are now setting the municipalities completely free and more free. I have to say: is it not true that fence posts have been installed to limit freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155241	After all, there are still some citizens who have security and need a proper municipal service. And it is clear that some fence posts have been placed there. I think that we can look a little at ourselves very well in here from Christiansborg, because as soon as there is a problem out there, we are ready to run out with fire and fire and rules and one thing and the other, because we are also concerned about the citizens getting that service. So it's just to make sure that there's such a minimum for what's supposed to be that you put these fence posts in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155309	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155311	Now the rapporteur says so boldly that it is to protect the citizen. After all, one of the fence posts is about the municipalities being able not to give the citizen the free choice, in relation to the fact that it is private players who are inside a municipality. So it is also a limitation of the opportunities that the citizen has. Then there are also specific clauses on which this welfare agreement can be drawn up. So the framework has a certain limitation, a certain narrowness, and at least the fence posts have an impact on whether you can make the free choice in relation to a private supplier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155349-2	I do not, of course, disagree with the fact that there are limits to seeing it on the part of the individual citizen as well. But it must also be the case that the municipalities actually have an opportunity to act. So it's a balancing act. Then I am sure that, in negotiating the next agreements, we can also discuss some of this with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155407	Mrs Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155409	I think that is an exciting statement, because it is one of the things that we, as Radicals, want to stress in the forthcoming agreement. Whether it's free community or welfare agreements is kind of the same for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155423-2	I am quite sure that the Minister is very concerned about his parliamentary basis and about keeping it happy. So I cannot imagine that there are things that should not be discussed in such negotiations. But, unfortunately, I cannot promise things as a substitute rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155436	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155437	Thank you so much. This was actually because of the rapporteur's response to what the radical question asked here. Because that was one of the reasons why we in New Citizens could not be part of this welfare agreement. It was because the municipalities were given the opportunity to deprive the elderly of their freedom of choice. And I am glad to hear the rapporteur here stand to open up that one can look at it when it is negotiated again, but just to ask such a basic question: does the rapporteur really believe that it would be beneficial for the elderly if the municipalities were given the possibility that the elderly could not have a free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155515	See, there I have to point out that I am a temporary rapporteur. It should not be my job here to be too specific in this area, so I hope the rapporteur will respect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155525	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155526	It's okay. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur's own view that as a municipality you have the opportunity to actually deprive the elderly of their free choice and whether the rapporteur really believes that it is for the benefit of the municipality or for the benefit of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155544	I think I see the country's municipalities very differently from New Citizens. I mean, I sort of see the municipalities as someone who is very concerned about trying to provide as good a public service as possible. And it's also about making some of these things work. It's not always having a hundred things on the shelves that give a better thing; it's not like that if you can choose a hundred things. It may be better to have some good things on the shelves than to say that now you can choose in the east and west and it will be much more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155610	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155631	Thank you for the floor. The many employees in the municipalities have to deal with new requirements and laws, and all too often what is called over-implementation is done in a fine word. It usually ends with much more rules, municipal rules, procedures and reporting and yet another benchmark and more paperwork. Over recent decades, the public sector has been reformed, but the many reforms have not met the challenges in many areas, and in some cases we can also discuss whether it has provided more quality in welfare. The public sector lacks employees, and some are calling for reforms to motivate people to look for jobs in the public sector. I just find it thought-provoking that there are so many skilled employees who in the last 5-10 years have left their jobs • teachers and educators, psychologists and social workers, nurses and midwives etc. And I'll get back to that. In SF we were very pleased with the Prime Minister's New Year's speech and the statement that all municipalities in Denmark should be released more freely, even though we have not yet received a concrete proposal as to how it should be done. In SF we will give our public employees peace of mind to carry out their duties. We will listen more to those who are close to the citizens and we will give some autonomy back to the institutions, both in terms of the development and implementation of decentralised objectives. We will also listen to professional practice in development and development processes, and we will do away with the current order and execution models, which are often expensive due to the associated transaction costs, as the tasks must be measured and weighed and described down to the smallest detail. In the SF we will listen more to the citizens and their relatives about needs. For SF, the talk is about releasing the municipalities, therefore, that we have a desire to create a real cultural change in the municipalities. It's not just about rules. We clearly believe in the SF that there is a need to create a different culture in the public sector than that which prevails and which has ruled for more than 20 years. This is a clash with the management and management culture which has taken precedence; it is both bureaucratic, counterproductive and yes, at worst damaging to the workers' desire for work and to the quality that comes out of it. In the SF, we would like more focus to be placed on triggering the potential of creating a citizen-close welfare through a profound confidence- or you could call the proximity reform that needs to revitalise the public sector. We need to make room for our skilled public sector staff so that we can meet the citizens where they are and meet the citizens at eye level. Trust brings better results, trust improves the working environment, and trust brings happier employees. In the future, this must permeate all public jobs. We in the SF are very much looking forward to the government calling for negotiations very quickly so that we can look at how we want to revitalise the public sector and that this is not just by giving a little more freedom and freeing them from some rules, is more fundamental. Actually, it's about time. And the SF cannot support the proposal as it stands. And as I mentioned earlier, the fundamental issue is that the free municipalities have had their time. They are simply too bureaucratic, and they are not doing this reform of the public sector that the SF would like to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155958	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322155959	Thank you. Just when I heard the SF's rapporteur's speech, I thought that it might now be that the rapporteur concludes by saying that we support it. For everything the rapporteur said before is in complete harmony with the motion for a resolution, that is to say, with the possibility of more self-determination, locally anchored and so on. That is the idea behind the motion for a resolution, that is to say, as an employee in a municipality, you are passionate about an area on which you would like to try some things, and that you are going to join in and say: I would like our municipality in the field of employment to actually be allowed to, so we can call it a welfare agreement, if it is the name that is crucial. I myself have worked in Ringsted Municipality for almost 19 years, and I know how much it means in terms of cultural change and the desire to work, that you are also allowed to choose what you want to influence. Then SF could not well see that e.g. the area of employment could also be an idea to get free?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160108	If I am to start backwards, I would say: yes, the area of employment could be a very obvious area of freedom. I would say that the SF does not agree with what the Social Democracy brings forward, namely that these are three areas. We would like it to be much wider. I think that is one of the things we need to negotiate on. I myself have also been in a town council, a municipal council, and I would say that up to several times we have gone cold in, if I may use that word, to apply for a free municipality attempt. So it's really about the shape. It is not necessarily about what the aim of the experiment is actually. So let us bring together the objective of both reforming and revitalizing the public sector into the negotiating room. Then we will have to look at how many areas we can open up, and then we will have to see in the negotiations that it is not just about releasing some rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160205	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160207	That is perhaps a comment on it, because I believe that the release can also help to make room for change in culture, so that things can also be linked. In the motion for a resolution we have tabled in the Left, we have just made a great deal of sense that it should be easier to seek, but also that we should be better at evaluating and getting the good examples spread out afterwards. Because it hasn't worked well enough so far. Was it also one of the things that SF could help bring into the negotiating room, i.e. both that it will be more areas, but also that we will spread out the good examples afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160247	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160249	To spread it out to several areas, the answer is yes. In terms of getting the good examples out, I always find it interesting. You can almost make an application for anything without having to spend most of the focus in an application on how to spread the good ideas. My point may be more to say: if those ideas are so good, you don't have to spread them out. Then they'll spread in networks as well as anything else. And much in relation to the good ideas is actually intuitive, so if you release that energy to the individual employees, then many of things should happen by themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160325	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160340	Thank you to the Left for putting forward this proposal for free municipalities or welfare agreements. I was a member of the City Council in 2010 when it became possible to apply for free community agreements, and I thought it was incredibly exciting because we in the municipalities are experiencing detailed regulation in the legislation, which helps to make the everyday life of employees in some cases more bureaucratic and contribute to a less efficient operation. It is of course our municipal politicians' concern, and now I have the chance to help negotiate this as a parliamentarian. I was incredibly frustrated again in 2021, when only seven municipalities were given the opportunity to conclude welfare agreements. Because when it was thought that this was such a good step, why should it only apply to seven municipalities, when at least there were municipalities that were waiting and would have been very happy to enter it. But now it sounds like the government is gonna dare more, and I'm really looking forward to it. After all, in the welfare agreements, there are only agreements for the elderly, the children's area and the school area, which are also laid down in future agreements, and why now? Here we see the proposals of the Left as more comprehensive and as providing more opportunities, not least for the employment area, which has been addressed by several sides last but not least, from the municipalities at the KL Summit. We also saw during the covid-19 that more liberal rules were made in the field of employment, which in fact resulted in more positive cooperation with the unemployed. I also listened to the criticism made at the KL Summit that the government is suggesting that with the proposal for the welfare agreements, the municipalities should only work in one area, despite the fact that we know that many of the citizens who are in the municipalities have problems that affect several departments. The welfare agreements could look at applications that dealt better with the interests of the municipalities and the interests of the citizens than with the current welfare agreements. We support looking at a broader framework for the welfare agreements or free municipalities, which the Left is proposing. The summit also talked about climate and the environment, because there are some regulations from the Folketing which the municipalities clearly say limit their ability to create climate change, and I think we should listen to that. Can we make free municipalities or welfare agreements in this area? And maybe that's where the word fits less well. In addition, we believe that the current welfare agreements create restrictions in relation to the fact that there are inappropriate fence posts where the municipalities can disclaim the right of citizens to use private suppliers. We support giving all 98 municipalities the opportunity for a greater local space and much greater freedom to find new, effective solutions that can reduce bureaucracy and think new in relation to the area of their choice. We look forward to the negotiations on the areas to be included in the welfare agreements and free community cooperation, because we have a holistic view of how agreements are made so that agreements are not limited to some areas, but that municipalities across welfare areas can register opportunities. And then, in the negotiations on the Left's proposals, which we believe have a line that is very open and attractive, we must be able to make a basis for a decision in which we create a broad majority. For this is a huge upheaval for the municipalities, and here we think it is really important that we work together across the Folketing. It is important for the municipalities that have to live with this that there is a broad consensus. With those words, I would like to say thank you, and I am really looking forward to some negotiations in this area, because this has been a huge wish from me since 2010.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160826	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160828	I would just like to thank you very much, because I could also hear how the rapporteur of the Radicals is really involved in this area. Perhaps that is why I am also involved in it myself: once you have worked with it for a few years, you can also see how much it can move if you open up more and give opportunities locally to municipalities to influence things. You'll make it a lot longer. I would also just like to thank you for mentioning the climate and the environment as well. This is also one of the areas on which I have been asked by a few municipalities, namely why they could not actually be allowed to do some free-community experiments there too. So that's just a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160911	Thank you. There are no comments. Then we thank the rapporteur and were on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322160925	Thank you. It is a very comprehensive proposal that has been put forward here: the freeing up of local authorities' scope for action in all the areas in which local authorities are concerned. I would like to say straight away that I attach great importance to exercising confidence in the competence and judgement of the employees and to a local anchoring, what should we call it. But I also have some fence stakes that I must put. Firstly, what I am particularly concerned about is that individual legal certainty is not challenged and that the municipalities do not inadvertently or consciously place the economy of the municipality above the rights or general social considerations of the individual. This can be put at risk both in the social field and in the field of spatial planning or climate action. When I think about climate action, I am thinking, for example, about climate change. That the municipalities should, of course, have the right to set up solar cells on all the roofs of the municipality, which would give a big leap forward for the use of renewable energy, but there it is quite another place we are going. After all, it is the local authority that needs to be changed, and that is not what lies right here. Then I also have the fence stake that says that I am not prepared to open up an escalation of privatisation, which actually means that the profits can be withdrawn from the social sector. I do not think that is desirable. We are ready to make welfare agreements, we are ready to make experiments, but we are a little surprised that the government will roll out the welfare agreements so quickly after the experiments are started, and at the same time say that we must evaluate the experiments that have been carried out. I do not think it is entirely consistent, but I am very excited to find out in the negotiations how the government weighs these two things. In relation to the proposal before us, which I consider to be very comprehensive, we do not feel confident that the fence posts which are in relation to legal certainty and social considerations will be able to hold, so we are not prepared to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161125	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161127	Thank you. I guess that wasn't so surprising. But what I would like to ask, and so just to get it right, is Enhedslisten's views on the free choice. The reason why the Left could not be included in the welfare agreement in the area of the elderly was that the elderly had limited their free choice. Is it correct to understand that Enhedslisten is opposed to older people making their own choices?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161200	No, it's misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161202	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And that means that we have now come to the Conservatives. Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161223	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen for bringing forward this motion for a resolution. I take it in the Chamber instead of our rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Bergman, who has unfortunately been prevented. For the Conservative People's Party, it is a fundamental value that we must remove as much bureaucracy as possible and as many rules as possible. Freedom to choose and make decisions and choices that are important to your family is a fundamental value for us Conservatives. In 2011, we in the Conservative People's Party, together with the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Christian Democrats, entered into an agreement to launch the first attempts with free municipalities in Denmark. A lot of good results came from that. According to VIVE, the results show that when municipalities are released and have the opportunity to remove rules and break down accustomed workflows, new ways are growing up, new ways of using public resources, new ways of involving private suppliers and citizens. Several free municipalities have thus rethought of the public service and created solutions that have already made significant impressions. Today we are debating a proposal from the Left to require the government to submit a draft law by 1 May 2022 setting up a new experimental scheme with extended free municipalities. The extended free municipality experiment scheme should enable all 98 municipalities to apply for specific experimental courses in one or more welfare areas of their choice. We in the Conservative People's Party very much agree with the proposers in the proposal for an extended free municipality experiment for all 98 municipalities, provided that free elections are maintained for the citizen. This is absolutely crucial for us Conservatives. Whatever areas of welfare we address, it is a matter of making the citizen better. Of course, whether you are young, adult or older, you have to be able to decide which supplier you want or whether you want the public to provide some kind of service. We must have that opportunity throughout our lives. We must not go too far in releasing municipalities by giving freedom from the rules of free choice. The rules of free choice are not unnecessary bureaucracy, but a guarantee of fundamental rights for citizens in making the choices they want to make. It is incredibly important not to deprive citizens of the possibility of free elections with free municipalities. The Conservative People's Party can support the proposers' proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161526	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we can go further in the course of our speeches to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161544	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Left for resubmitting this proposal, because it is an important debate. We've heard the PM address it in the New Year's speech. At the KL summit last week, the Minister of Finance stressed that the government wants to give all municipalities additional freedom. It was a theme that all the party leaders in Aalborg supported as a starting point, and then there were elements that need to be ensured immediately. From various quarters it was said that the citizen must have freedom of choice, there must be minimum standards, there must be class ceilings, there must be a certain level of service, and there is a lot to be said about each of these frameworks, limitations or fence posts, as one might call them. In the Danish People's Party we are also absolutely clear that freedom for municipalities must not be a freedom to relax the service. It is not without reason that we have had to give billions to the municipalities, combined with demands for a certain level of service. We have also been able to see that when the requirements fall away, the service is relaxed. We were given money to cut cards for the elderly, but at the same time the claim disappeared, the money was spent in many places on something else. That is why we need to combine the discussion on free municipalities with a discussion on how to ensure that freedom is used with responsibility. We in the Danish People's Party cannot accept that a freedom opens up to unacceptable bad service. Some will say that local democracy must be resolved; citizens must take responsibility and ensure that the city council is not re-elected. But to quote Niels Hausgaard: Are most people now also the best, or are they just the most? In the Danish People's Party we need to ensure that the weakest, the elderly, the disabled, children and young people who do not have the powers and opportunities to take matters into their own hands are also taken into account. We need to ensure a framework that does not forget or save them in municipal efficiency gains just because they cannot shout out loud. That is why I would just like to ask that, in the light of this proposal, we sit together and look at how we might be able to draw up a joint report. Because I think we can all be interested in abolishing unnecessary bureaucracy, unnecessary demands, unnecessary rules. What is the dilemma is what is unnecessary and what is necessary to ensure that we actually provide the services to citizens to whom citizens are entitled. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161827	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments, which means that we go to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322161843	The family is the most important part of society. It is in the family that we are formed as people, learn to commit ourselves and be something for our fellow human beings. Strong families therefore create strong individuals who in turn help to make our society strong. Family members take care of each other, know each other, and sense unconditional love. A strong family thus equips the individual to enter society and join in fellowship with others. But the very large state and the high taxes are pushing the families. Almost by itself, the welfare state has expanded with explosive force. The Danish tax collection is today the world's highest. This pushes families into a hamster wheel. The children are sent very early to the institution because far too few families can find financial surpluses to adapt as they please. Socialist thinking also permeates both the area of children and the elderly, the area of disability, and the detailed management of policies means that parents are now forced to send their children to school, even if they are not ready. The municipal elderly service is both expensive and poor and is characterised by a cold that recovers from a sector in which competition and hence initiative and innovation are banned. We can see that the handicap area is sailing. New citizens want to put their heels in here. As a society, we have been moving down a wrong road; a road where the interests of the state have for too long overshadowed the families. Danish parents don't have to work to feed the state. They must work for themselves and for each other, and now it is time to fight for smaller states, more people, because it also means stronger families. Families must be strengthened through freedom under responsibility. They must be allowed to keep more of their own money and, at the same time, the community of values must be strengthened in civil society so that security and community are strengthened as the state fills less. When we talk in New Citizens about decentralisation, we are not just talking about decentralising into the municipalities. We are talking about decentralising all the way to the individual institutions, all the way to the individual Dane, all the way to the individual family. In short, the money must follow the individual. They must follow the individual child in day care and school, and they must follow the individual elderly, so that you have a real free choice, even when you are older. In a more bourgeois society, families have more freedom to live as they please. They have more money for themselves after tax, they have more free choices, and they therefore experience more harmony in everyday life. The aim is to make family life easier for more people, by giving freedom at all stages of life, from childhood to old age. Parents will have more time with their children in the first important years, and older people will have more freedom and self-determination as equal members of society. It must create a society with enhanced cohesion and a clear perception that we live in a binding national community. In short, politicians must decide much less, and Danes must decide much more for themselves, including more of their own money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322162243	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any too brief remarks. Mette Thiesen Hov, I have promised to say from the Liberal Alliance that they will also support the proposal). Then it came too, thank you for that. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322162303	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for taking this debate on freedom in the Chamber this afternoon. It is true, as the Minister also said, that it is almost a copy. A few adjustments have been made in the text, but otherwise we have talked about this a year ago, and at that time I thought that, if nothing else, it could help push things forward, and when I heard the Prime Minister's New Year speech, I thought: "Yeah! At any rate, there are now some things that I can recognise in relation to what we were talking about in this Chamber, that is, why it is that we are not giving the opportunity to all 98 municipalities and not just to seven municipalities. When you have worked at a municipality for more than 18 years, as I have before I became a politician, you also try on your own body what is involved, for example. to create a new culture. And what I can say is that some of what you can almost get quite high from as an employee in a public sector is to be allowed to influence things yourself, to be allowed to change culture, or, for that matter, to see for yourself how things can be done in a better way in the municipality in which you work. That is why I was looking forward to having the debate in this Chamber again. And I would like to say that I am very pleased with the positive statements made by the rapporteurs who indicated that they will help either to draw up a form of joint report or to vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you to the Radical Left for welcoming this proposal. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for being involved in working with a joint story. And for that matter, I would also like to thank the Liberal Alliance, the New Civil and Conservatives for their positive support. I actually think that I would like to inform the Radical Left rapporteur of why we are actually standing here today and discussing the proposal under the Committee on the Interior and Housing, because I do not think that the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly was entirely in control of that. I can say that the reason for this is that I, as the proposer, had actually asked for it to be dealt with under the Ministry of the Interior, precisely because I do not think that this needs to be done with the welfare areas, but could just as well deal with climate and the environment. And that's why I thought it was most obvious that it was actually the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing who should stand on the platform. I was then told that, in a sense, it belongs to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. It is then a battle that must be fought, but at least I insisted that I thought it was in the committee that the proposal should be dealt with, because that is where I think it actually belongs. But thank you again for a good debate. I hope that we can reach a joint report. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322162616	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred specifically to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. When I stand here looking, it's because there's not quite the crew in here that I expected. I will not interrupt the sitting. I would like to take this opportunity to take a deep breath and then let us hope that a minister will show up. He's usually here from the beginning of the meeting, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322162730	The debate is open. Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322162806	Thank you. Sorry I'm late. This hasn't happened before. I'll try to keep it from ever happening again. I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for allowing us once again to have a discussion with B 68, the motion for a resolution here, and I would also like to mention the importance of the agreement to which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has just added an important addition. First of all, I should like to point out that it was a rather unusual procedure to call for the renegotiation of an agreement not even as a party. It is usually the sort of thing that parties to the agreement can, in other words, think that an agreement has to be renegotiated. This is because a party that is not part of the agreement would like it to be renegotiated. You may wish so, but it is usually a little different that this requirement can be made. The parties that entered into the agreement have, through a long and thorough process, been involved in implementing and implementing it, and that was in the circle of influence. After all, the authors of the motion for a resolution have themselves opted out, and instead we have a debate today. However, in this respect, I would like to thank the parties involved in the agreement for good discussions over recent months and for taking responsibility for ensuring good educational opportunities throughout Denmark in the future. Some 40 new specific training opportunities receive more than 800 million. kr. in establishment grants. Add to this also the many current local educations around the country, which will have better economic conditions to last in the future, despite falling adolescences. There is a total investment here of nearly 400 million. kr. lasting. These are structural changes that will work, and my delay was in fact also due to a great deal of talk with the press today. I have to say that I am actually quite proud of what we have done and achieved together, and therefore considerably more than I think we expected when we started this whole discussion a year ago. Now we have a strong plan for how in the coming years we will secure our education system with good opportunities for education outside the largest cities. The parties have prioritised funds for a veterinary education in Foulum at Viborg, where Aarhus University Hospital is planning a campus, for a pedagogic education in Holbæk, engineering programmes in Risø, Hirtshals and Kalundborg; IT and STEM programmes we are ready to support in the triangular area if the process goes further. And much, much more. It is the fruit of good and inclusive cooperation with the educational institutions that has drawn up the plans which we have been following closely since the contract circle. It was probably not a wanted task to have from the outset, but I think it has to be said that the institutions have played along and taken it on board that there was a considerable political desire here to ensure educational opportunities throughout Denmark, and this is something that we are contributing so constructively to. The main objective of the agreement is to support the survival of educational establishments outside the largest cities, so that Denmark will have a better educational balance. If the developments we have seen in recent years, when there has been centralisation in a number of areas, and where admission has also been increasingly centralised in the largest cities, continue, we risk training closures outside the largest cities, not least in view of the falling youth years up to 2040. That will only reinforce that development. Developments will probably mean that more and more companies, families with children and educational seekers are looking for the largest cities, and for local communities it can be a vicious spiral that is hard to break, with fewer education, fewer jobs, fewer inhabitants. If we want development and progress throughout Denmark, it also sometimes requires that we take political responsibility to stimulate it and support it, among other things. by ensuring training opportunities. It would damage the cohesion of our country and create a growing gap of opportunity between young people across the country if we did not take action. The government and a broad majority in the Folketing will another way. We want to have strong educational institutions and good opportunities to train in the largest cities, strong universities with world-class research environments. This will continue to be the case with the agreement reached and there will also be good educational opportunities elsewhere in the country for young people who would like to take an education close to where they have grown up and for adults who have the courage to train but who do not have the opportunity to move to a city to go to an education because they have established a family and a living in a smaller city. There must be training provision for those who thrive better in a smaller environment, at a smaller place of education, what a number of young people actually do. In fact, I also think that many people will thrive better there and experience that you have shorter paths to teachers, that you have a closer environment with each other and easier to build a professional identity and unity around your education and your subject than sometimes it can be the experience at very large educational places where there are very, very many other students. I am not worried that fewer young people will get an education with the agreement, and I think that is one of the things that is, what to say, the objection or what is also being proposed for us to discuss. Mrs Katrine Robsøe and I had a similar discussion on Wednesday, i.e. whether fewer young people would get an education with the agreement, and I am not worried about that. The educational urge of young people in Denmark is fortunately strong, and experience and facts tell us that if you have fewer opportunities in one place, then the young people choose a different education instead. It is an experience we have, among other things. from when one of the proposers, former Minister of Education and Research Sofie Carsten Nielsen, even in 2014, introduced the so-called unemployment-based dimensioning. Then there were also critical voices and opposition from some of the same circles as there have been now, but nevertheless they did so with the Radical Left in the lead. In this case, access to education was restricted with overestimability. It subsequently turned out that the vast majority of applicants who had applied for one of the courses in question were in the course of another training when they looked at it two years later. I also think it is a little intuitive if you imagine the young person in whom the student hat is on and you are ready to take an education, and if there is one place where you do not come in, and the choice is whether you do not take an education altogether or you apply to another, that is the last thing that happens. As far as I can understand, the Radicals do not have any proposals on how to ensure the survival of educational environments and opportunities throughout the country if you are opposed to the agreement here. It does not solve the overall problem of providing more money alone. The challenges are not only that there are no educational places, but that there is a lack of students to look for them and be admitted outside the major cities. We also know this from past experience. During the last parliamentary term, under the former bourgeois government, ten local training courses were established in different places in the country, so-called training stations, and I have sympathy for the political ambition behind it. The ambition was to attract 500-1,000 students to the programmes, and the thinking was about the same as what we are now pursuing in an even more thorough and ambitious and apparently more effective way. However, I have sympathy for the political ambition behind the proposal at the time, but I must also say today that it is not enough to set up training places and allocate money. The search for the training stations was annually only about 100 students assembled, and today part of the ten stations is closed. Others make it, survive and seek to become more permanent educational establishments, and some of them also succeed with it, but the general picture is that it was not the success that we hopefully do. I also think we have good reason to believe that the new agreement will achieve. In other words, if we are to support local and regional tenders, we also need more students to apply for those programmes. But only the young people are there and in the years to come there will be even fewer people studying higher education in those years. And if you continue to see centralisation in the admissions around the largest cities, you will be risking that the basis for educational opportunities elsewhere in the country is waning and it will be detrimental to themselves and to the employers in the private sector and in municipalities and regions who are going to recruit them locally, and that will therefore also mean a greater gap in terms of opportunities for young people and for these more, what are we going to say, adults, mature, more established families and people there, who later in life want to take an education or take a new one, and where it means something that there is education close to them. In fact, we can already see that the incentives provided by the agreement we completed yesterday work. In the educational institutions' own recordings, there are ambitions for over 100 new educational provision and relocations outside the largest cities in the years to come. I am convinced of that, among other things. because the agreement improves the financial conditions for training outside the largest cities by more than DKK 400 000 million per year, which mainly goes to a new regional taximeter and an increased decentralized basic grant. On top of that, this 800 million. kr., which we are investing towards 2030 in the establishment of more than 40 new educational initiatives around the country, and it is also the case that the number is actually even higher of what is possible. More than 100 ideas and ambitions have been played in, and more people are planning to move to an existing regional campus with new training opportunities, without requiring additional establishment funding other than that achieved by an increased taximeter. So, as I said, we are also up to more ideas, recordings and opportunities than I probably expected us to have and succeed. When the discussion began, I think many people said a little that it was not possible at all, and I think we have disproved it quite thoroughly both with the agreement in June and, above all, with the progress that has been made since then. This has required a great deal of work from the institutions that have played with it. I think they have done what they have done, as I have said, and also that we have had a politically thorough and good work on those recordings and have translated them into a proper implementation of the agreement, which we could then conclude. I believe that we are acting here quite sensibly and responsibly, and I assume that a very broad majority in the Folketing is behind it. I also believe that it is right to implement the agreement, which I have argued for here, and so the government cannot support the resolution to renegotiate an agreement which we have just confirmed yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322163921	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322163926	That, and thank you to the Minister for the speech. The Minister recognizes the text of the agreement, which states in paragraph 6 of Annex A: "The negotiating parties are aware that the small subjects in particular can be challenged in the coming years with falling youth years. There I would just like to ask the Minister whether we should renegotiate and reopen this agreement, and that it would appear that no funds have been allocated to it, whether he will not go into the question of whether the new supplementary agreement will provide financial support for some of the small subjects and some of the closed subjects. The Minister is aware that we have proposed taking the small language pool and summing up or something else. And if you have not done so, does the Minister think that we can make an amendment to this agreement and then do it, or what does the Minister think about it? Because I hope the Minister agrees that this is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164034	I agree with that, and that is the whole reason why, when the agreement was concluded, it was written in as an essential consideration that the institutions were asked to take into account when drawing up their plans. I think they've lived up to it, too. There's a will and a desire to maintain these smaller subjects, typically within the humanities. I think that is a good thing. I actually think that if the Enhedslisten wants to do so, they are free to propose in their policy that they want to increase this scheme and finance it. But it is an existing scheme that particularly supports some quite small subjects • even very small subjects • and research is still gone, and they exist, even though there are very, very few students on the individual transitions. At first sight it is not really the idea that this is the general solution; perhaps the challenge is to get some more people to look for some of these unique subjects.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164133	Victoria Velasquez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164135	I heard the answer, like that there is no economy to hold hands with the small subjects, which the contracting circle recognizes are some of those who are threatened by the falling adolescences. My second question concerns paragraph 49 of the text of the agreement. There I think there is something wise about this, along with local actors, to ensure good study environments etc. We know that, for example. has been a sorority that has proposed a project one could do to create some good student activities, and there have also been other examples, but now it was just a concrete example. I have not been able to see that resources have been allocated for this to be possible. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164213	In other words, the small trade system exists and exists completely, as it has done so far just to make it clear: it has not changed. And it has clearly been taken into account that this is not where you go in and scale down and reduce recorded, in the recordings that have come. That is what was taken into account when the agreement was concluded, and I think that is also what has been achieved. The point here about study environments, jobs, housing etc. In particular, it is a demand and a commitment that we think it is reasonable to give to municipalities and others where new training courses can then be created, so that they also take care to contribute to a good study environment and opportunities for young people where they are. But it is up to them to shoulder that responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164257	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164259	Thank you. Now it is not all the new tenders that this resolution is about, and I understand that you want to talk about them, but it is really about stopping those closures, and you cannot avoid them with this agreement. But what I would like first of all to hear the Minister about is how the Social Democratic Party believes that the percentage distribution between education offers should be between the four largest cities and the rest of Denmark. I ask because in fact, with the exception of one percentage point, there has been the same distribution of the number of educational provision between the four largest cities and the rest of Denmark from 1998 to 2018. That is why I would like to hear: where does the Minister think this limit should be? How far will the Social Democratic Party go in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164403	We didn't put any percentages on that. But what we cannot ignore is the fact that the increase in attendance in higher education has largely occurred in the largest cities and that in the years to come we will see that there are significant falls in the number of years of youth and, therefore, fewer people seeking higher education. And it's a new reality that many people will probably have to adjust to in a relatively long period of time, and if you just let it pass, if you just say it's gonna have to go as it goes, which is what I sense is the attitude of the Radicals here, even if you've meant something else in the past, it's no use. It seems not only to want to allocate some more money, but we also have to move on the preoccupations of those who then are when there are falling adolescences. Otherwise, there is no basis for maintaining training courses in many parts of the country, and there will be closures, fewer opportunities, and I believe that this and, of course, a broad majority is not desirable for Denmark to arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164506	Katrine Robsøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164508	Thank you. I have to take it as if it is simply a demand from the Social Democratic Party that these almost 2 000 places of study should be closed down. I had actually hoped that the ambition for the government and the Social Democratic Party was that we should have created more educational opportunities throughout Denmark, and that we should not just lay down a mass square, and that is a real shame. But is it correct to understand that it is simply a requirement for these seats to be closed down?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164539	If you look at the agreement in detail, you will see that there will be at least a constant number of places with the implementation of the agreement here, and there will in fact be quite likely more seats. The point is, of course, that we need to move on to how the distribution of admissions is between the largest cities and elsewhere in the country, because otherwise we will have the closures that I have not yet heard a good answer from the Radicals on how to avoid. There I think we should take the responsibility that we as a party would also like to take in other contexts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164612	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can start the rapporteur's round. It is first Mrs Ida Auken, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322164622	Thank you. According to the proposal put forward by the Radical Left, the Folketing is to instruct the government to call the parties of the Folketing to renegotiate the agreement on more and better training opportunities throughout Denmark so that the closure of training places can be avoided. The agreement referred to was concluded this summer by a broad majority in the Folketing in order to ensure better education coverage in Denmark, so that more people will have access to a good education. In Denmark we have world-class educations, and the graduates from our programmes are sought after. We lack skilled hands and smart heads in almost all industries and in all parts of the country, and we cannot afford to miss out on the talents of law, machine skills or pedagogy that hide in the unskilled mother of two who are tied to his city by a daily life with children, lunches and mortgages, or the young student, who is an engineering or medical talent, because he is so attached to family and friends that he does not want to move from his city. And then we believe that it is good for the balance of the country that there are highly educated people everywhere, not just in cities. Therefore, it is important that Danes have access to education and qualification close to where they live. It is for their own sake, but it is also for the sake of companies and public jobs. There is just as much need for veterinarians in Jutland as in Copenhagen, and there is just as much need for teachers on South Funen as in Odense. After careful involvement of the educational institutions, we have discussed in the contract circle how best to implement the agreement, and this morning the final agreement has been published. This means that there will be more than 40 new educational opportunities outside the large cities. This also means that there are ambitions behind it and that new ideas have been put forward so that almost 100 new training rates can be reached outside the four largest cities. I find it exciting what can happen in Kalundborg and what can happen in all sorts of places in our country that have not today been such real study cities with life and opportunity to evolve. Therefore, in all humility, we are proud of this agreement. I also think that the proposers can see the sense of it if they have had the opportunity to read through the agreement. It is clear from the comments on the motion for a resolution that we are discussing today that: The authors of the proposals recognise the need for the establishment of training courses throughout the country and want to help create places outside Copenhagen, Aarhus, Odense, Aalborg and Roskilde...... That is precisely the need addressed by the agreement. Where the disagreement arises is that the comments continue:...... But in the opinion of the proposers this should not be at the expense of the existing provision of training in these cities. I am surprised that, after a year of debate on this particular subject, we have not had the misunderstanding expressed by the authors of the motion for a resolution corrected. In the years to come, smaller adolescences enter the education system. One should imagine that there is almost 10%. fewer young people to fill our seats. That is why we have far fewer people to fill up the study places that we currently have. We can't fill up all the study places. Therefore, it is not enough just to create study places outside the large cities without also saying that we must ensure that there are students for them. We must ensure that the fewer students who come in the coming years are actually distributed among the educational provision we create, so that no tenders are so small that they have to close down. That is why we have also agreed in the contract circle that admission to large cities will be reduced by 6.4 per cent, most of which will be relocated while other places will be closed down. And before we are offended by the fact that some education is being scaled down, I would like to remind you of two things. Firstly, we are creating more education outside the large cities, because we want more people to be able to take an education, and secondly, the number of study places in the large cities has grown explosively in recent years, while training places outside the large cities have closed down a development which the Radical Left and the proposers themselves have regretted. With a reduction of 6.4 per cent in the large cities. We are only just taking the tip of the development that has been going on, and all the young people who want to read in the cities will still be able to do so. That is why the Social Democrats do not support the proposal to renegotiate the agreement. In fact, I think that the proposers should reconsider whether the content of the agreement is not sensible and whether the agreement does not solve the challenge that we are actually looking at equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165116	There is a brief comment on Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165120	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. It's almost gonna be a little like a campaign movie with the music running out of the demonstration at Slotspladsen. Anyway, we can hear you guys demonstrating out there not because I think they're watching this Parliament TV. My question is about DTU in relation to the text of the agreement, and in the light of this, whether we should renegotiate the agreement. It is the case that insufficient funds have been found to ensure the relocations which are in the institutional plans and which can certainly be realised. With DTU, $30 million has been set aside. kr. In the summer agreement, if you do not move seats, you have to close the seats. That is why I just want to ask what the plan is in relation to DTU, because it says that they are being encouraged to continue working on relocation plans. But what if the money isn't there for them to make the relocations? Is it a self-payment you want them to put down? If they can't, do they have to shut down training places? Can the rapporteur clarify this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165224	Well, it's just a development plan we're going into with DTU, and we're looking at their bid for it. And I would like to pay tribute to those who stayed at the table, namely SF, who actually found 10 million. kr. more to DTU, so you will be able to realize even more of the visions that DTU has, I think, very nicely come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165242	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165246	That's a weird comment. We have also, although not sitting at the table, helped to find money for it, so I do not really understand the need to make such a snide remark about not taking responsibility. In fact, I think that is quite absurd and also a rather strange way of dealing with such an important debate about future education. I'm trying to ask you again. There's 30 million. kr. They say it's supposed to be a three-digit million. Are you going to find that money if DTU doesn't come up with own funding, or what's the plan there? And then I hope that you do not make such snide remarks in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165319	Thank you. Then we'll get answers. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165321	But now the Enhedslisten stepped out of the agreement because it was thought that there was not enough money in the agreement. I think I am the one who has just spoken. And that is why I am just saying that some of the things that Enhedslisten has wanted today are, of course, some of the things you could have gotten by sitting at the table and taking responsibility for the whole agreement. That's just the difference between being in and not being in. All I'm saying is that there's another party sitting there, which, among other things, is... helped secure more money for more of what DTU wants to do to become a reality. We think that is a good thing. We would like to see all the different ideas that lie up to over a hundred invitations to tender can become something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165357	Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165359	Well, thank you. In fact, I would like to follow up on this last point: how will the Social Democrats finance the fact that all the possible educational provision that has been made here will actually turn into something, so that we do not run into the concern that Mrs Velasquez very well summed up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165424	Now, of course, we have first got the money to stretch to over 40 new training opportunities. And that was one of the things we were told we couldn't get the money to stretch to. We've found 1.2 billion kroner, 800 million of which. kr. In addition, ECU 400 million was provided for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and ECU 400 million for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). kr. is permanent. So we hope, of course, that the training courses will continue with these plans and that we can also be involved. That may well be one of the things that some of our support parties in a financial law will be helping to finance, and it is also not excluded that more funds can be found. Yesterday, for example, we managed to find more funds for this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165459	Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165500	I know the language of social democracy. This means that the Social Democracy is probably not itself going to give priority to finding money for this, for example. And I think that is a pity when you want to stand on the platform and talk about these 100 educational proposals. I would like to ask about CBS, very specifically, in fact. There it has been written in the agreement that because their proposals do not quite reach 5%, then they must find something more, further, to close. Will the Social Democratic Party insist that CBS should close more?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165539	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165541	I think we can be pretty sure that CBS doesn't close things with the mini-adjust we've asked them for. It's just good custom that when we ask them to find 5-10 per cent, and CBS comes with 4.7 per cent, we ask them to find the last ones. Don't you think they'll take it on the general record? That would be my guess. Because we have just said that it is very important that CBS also looks after their research environments. It is also explicitly stated in the Supplementary Agreement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165619	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165620	In fact, normally I start my speeches by thanking the authors of the motions for resolutions for the debate. I will not do that today. Not because I do not want to discuss a Denmark in a better education balance, on the contrary, but simply because I think, frankly, that the Radical Left resolution here is a bad starting point for a debate which, as I see it, is far too important to settle on the basis of the resolution tabled today by the Radical Left. Because there is no concrete proposal from the Radical Left to deal with, except that the Radical Left is against parts of what a very broad majority in the Folketing has agreed this summer. In other words, the Radical Left is devoid of vision or of a way forward to secure qualified labour for both the private and the public sectors, even outside the largest cities. In the Left, we want a better education balance for Denmark, and in fact we believe that with the agreement that the Radical Left, with this proposal, wants to cancel, we are taking an important step towards creating a Denmark in a better education balance. We have established a veterinary degree in Foulum at Viborg, a law degree in Esbjerg, medical degree in Køge, midwife's degree in Slagelse and social worker training in Hjørring. And I could actually go on like that for a long time to come. The agreement which the Radical Left wishes to cancel is investing, as Mrs Ida Auken said, 805 million. kr. up to 2028 in establishment grants for 41 new training initiatives across the country. And 413 million are invested. kr. Every year in both new and existing education outside the largest cities. And this is very much needed. This is what we need to give young people better choice, and this is what we need to ensure, as I said, better access to skilled labour, also outside the major cities. The new regional taximeter introduced by the agreement means that the institutions get 7%. more in taximeter contributions per. students when the study place exists outside the major university towns. The central basic subsidy, which we already know today, is further doubled, in other words, a way of strengthening the economy of education services outside the major cities. We in the Left are delighted about this because we are absolutely convinced that this will create better and stronger economic conditions for setting up education throughout the country for the benefit of the whole of Denmark, and especially for the benefit of those parts of Denmark where there are currently not many educational opportunities for young people to choose from. The Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322165953	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. I just want to say, for information, that I am trying to silence the music that is out there in the Palace Square so that we can still negotiate in here. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170004	Thank you. It doesn't have to be for me. All they have to do is demonstrate. In any case, I can clearly hear what the rapporteur says. I have the impression, and it is positive, that the Left is aware that with this, with the relocations of training places and downsizing and the falling adolescences, we are not going to create a ceiling that will prevent us from creating new training places in relation to the green transition and these different parts. It is actually also addressed in the text of the agreement. So I would like to ask whether the rapporteur could put a little more words on how to ensure that balance in relation to the framework agreements, so that it does not become such a full dimensioning agreement. Can the rapporteur put a little more words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170059	During the negotiations, it has been important for the Left to ensure that there is an opportunity to develop the training provision for which there will be demand. No one today knows exactly what demand will be when we reach 2030. It is therefore important that education institutions are not static. There will undoubtedly be a demand for new training combinations in order to increase it in relation to the demand for competences for the green transition. It may be IT education, it may be engineering education, and I also believe that the life science industry will come up with new requirements for our education sector. That is why it has been important for us to ensure that flexibility is also present. And as the agreement states: if there is no possibility of moving around within the institution, if it is located in one of the large cities, then use some of the empty places to create some of the new education that will be future demand, then we must engage in a dialogue with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170209	Victoria Velasquez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170211	For that, and thank you for the clarification. A little additional to that, I would like to say that paragraph 46 on page 6 of the Supplementary Agreement states that the Minister for Education and Research must approve the applications that are coming. Would the rapporteur like to say a few words about this? Is this something that will become more of a process and that you will be able to count on the Minister to approve it, or is there an expectation that you will then look at the framework agreement and continually approve or not approve, depending on that balance? Or how is that supposed to be understood? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170250	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170251	For me and for the Left, it is important that it is a dialogue between the Education and Research Authority and the institution concerned. I want that dialogue to be as unbureaucratic as possible. I could hear that Mrs Victoria Velasquez was in some very difficult process. That's not what's in the cards at all. What is in the cards is that you can knock on the door, if I may say so, to the Education and Research Board and in a close dialogue with the board, find how to solve the needs of society in order to create the training that is required.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170332	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170336	I can hear that the rapporteur of the Left is obviously not so enthusiastic about standing in the Chamber today, but now we are standing here anyway, and just for the record, I would like to say that this is not really about stopping all the new courses around the country. This is precisely about stopping the training closures and closures of training places which are taking place on the basis of this agreement, and I would therefore just like to know whether it is a requirement on the part of the Left that almost 2 000 training places should be closed down in the four largest cities here. Is it simply a pillar for the Left and for Mrs Ulla Tørnæs that these training places should be closed or could we try to find another option?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170429	With the way the agreement is made, it is a precondition that either the transfer or the downscaling of the agreement is carried out. We would have preferred everything to have happened through relocation, but it has not been possible. For example: We backed it up immediately when ITU came up with a proposal to make a campus in Vejle. We wanted that, but it ended up not being possible. Fortunately, the ITU has succeeded in releasing its entire scale down, as relocation was not possible. The prerequisite for the agreement is, of course, that the institutions will live up to what they have been asked for, and indeed I think they have done so in their response to what we asked them for this summer, and that is exactly what we are dealing with in the supplementary agreement that landed last night between a broad majority of the parties here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170528	Katrine Robsøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170529	Thank you. But now we know that it is not possible for the educational institutions within the framework agreement concluded before the summer recess to relocate all the seats which I actually fully recognize, I think, the Left would have liked to have seen moved out. That is why I am asking now: should we not try to find another solution for the almost 2 000 training places here instead of just closing them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170558	As I have said, the various elements of the agreement require either a relocation or a downsizing of the number of study places in the large cities to ensure that they will be sustainable units that we support with the agreement here, that is, the new study places that are created outside the large cities. In view of the decline in the youth year, it is important that there is also an adjustment in relation to the number of study places in the major university cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170635	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322170644	Thank you. Last night the additional agreement on the implementation of this agreement finally fell into place. We got institutional plans from the institutions in January and have been negotiating for over two months. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the SF we do not support the motion for a resolution to renegotiate the agreement. I would say that is what we have almost just done. In addition to that, I would also like to say that I am very pleased that those of us who are in the agreement will meet every six months and follow up on this agreement. Because I do not think we can foresee what is needed of education in the future, and I also hope that there will be even more creativity among the institutions, so that we can hopefully support more decentralised procurement in the future. But we do not yet know that, and fortunately we have to follow up every six months. I think it is really a pity that the Radical Left was not with the agreement this summer and that during this renegotiation we have had to say goodbye to the Enhedslisten. Actually, I think it could have been an even better deal if you'd been there. However, by staying at the negotiating table, we in the SF have helped to ensure that this agreement is implemented wisely. We have secured more money in the agreement; we have ensured that the training to be set up is properly funded and, if that cannot be achieved anyway, it is not automatic downsizing that comes; and we are getting some more good education throughout the country. And then we have ended up quite a long way from the worrying scenarios presented by the educational institutions. All special considerations have been accepted, and we have ended up at around 6%, which means significantly fewer closed places in large cities, but still more new educations close to young people outside large cities. When you hear the rapporteur on the Radical Left, it sounds as if the whole thing is absolutely terrible with this agreement. I have even seen that the Radical Left calls the agreement something I am not allowed to say on the platform in Ritzau today. It is just as violent enough and far away from where I think we have ended, and I would therefore like to tell you once again why it is actually that SF is in this agreement in the first place. We are because we want more decentralised education throughout Denmark. We want a Denmark where more people can read what they dream about, close to where they live. We want good educational opportunities that benefit not only the individual but also the local communities. With the agreement, we are beginning to go the opposite way of centralisation. We get more education outside the largest cities; we strengthen the economy of decentralized education and support the end of closing education outside the major cities. And then we also agreed to the agreement to ensure that the government's somewhat desk-like proposal for 10-percent cuts such as a green harvester over a wide range in the largest cities should not succeed. For us, it has been important for us to have the institutions involved and consulted, and for us to have taken account of the special concerns which the institutions themselves had entered into the institutional plans which we received in January and have meticulously reviewed over the last few months. I would like to conclude by saying that with this agreement we have said that too, as several other rapporteurs have said, but I do not really feel that it is being recognised that there are just as many training places in the future and hopefully more; between 2 000 and 3 000 new training places. And it is quite right, as Katrine Robsøe has also pointed out several times, that unfortunately 1.930 training places have to be closed in the large cities. However, there will be more training places in the future than today. We do not support the proposal to renegotiate the proposal. We have just done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171041	Katrine Robsøe, here you go for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171042	Yes, thank you. There are, after all, many of the things that the SF says about why they are included in the agreement, which the Radical Left would also have liked to have supported. It's not a secret. The reason I have called it some bad things today is that I may not quite see the joy that you only see but these are different ways of doing it, I recognise that. But I would just like to hear: is it really a demand from the SF for SF? Because that is what the resolution is all about, i.e. whether we could not try to find a solution for these training places that have to close down. Couldn't the SF be in on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171148	Forgive me for giggling a little, but I think it is absolutely crazy that the rapporteur says that I have not fought hard enough, that the SF has not fought hard enough. It's SF that's been in this deal, even after it got hard, and has been fighting for these educations. And I was quite alone; there were no more of the support parties left in this agreement, and we have stayed anyway. For it is SF's style to reach compromises, to be a tracker and, moreover, to secure an agreement that gets more education throughout the country, which has been SF's goal for many years now; that we are finally doing something and not just saying good things in an election campaign, that is to say that you want more decentralised education, but that we are actually doing it too. I'm proud of that. But no - and Mrs Katrine Robsøe knows this very well - it is not SF's policy that we should close these courses, but it has been the premise of this agreement, and I also think it is worth talking about that we have falling adolescences, and we need to look into the problem that it is. So I am proud that it has not ended with a hardcore dimensioning, but with objectives for the institutions instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171258	Katrine Robsøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171259	Well, SF's rapporteur must giggle everything she wants. I don't really care, to say it back just as hard. SF has chosen to buy the premise that there is a need to close these courses, solely because they are located in one of the largest cities. After all, it is SF's choice to buy in on that premise and then participate in it. I would like to ask about this ceiling: does the SF want to help guarantee that the needs for education and training are actually met, even if they are to be set up in one of the four largest cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171338	This ceiling is something we've been very concerned about in these negotiations. I am not interested in us putting a lid on the development of education in Denmark, which is why, as I said, I am also glad that it has not become a dimensioning; that it is objectives that can also fluctuate over the years. And if something changes significantly, which is needed in the future, then fortunately we have to meet every six months in the contract circle, and we have also written in that there is room for flexibility. So I would have liked to have seen it less rich, but I think we've ended up in a really nice place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171413	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we go to Mrs Victoria Velasquez; that is because the Radicals are the proposer and therefore come to the end. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322171451	Thank you. Why are we here, and why do we spend so much of our lives doing political work? As far as I am concerned, this is about helping to create a society that is free, equal, solidarity and sustainable, and education is a cornerstone here. Education makes the individual citizen stronger and smarter and qualifies our starting point for active participation in society and taking co-responsibility, and education levels also provide better and more equal life chances • the content and opportunities of one's working life are improved. Education is also an enormous strength for a society because the things we see together are getting better and forward-looking, and they are doing so at least if they are good education, and I am talking here in general, because although we are witnessing both education snobbery and academic bashing at the same time, we need education and training for the various tasks that need to be solved and the various tasks that create a value in our society. We need them. Just look at the obvious current examples, such as the climate crisis, Putin's invasion of Ukraine or the corona crisis. The planet is composed of challenges and we need complex solutions to deal with it as well as possible. Just the green transition: We need skilled social workers to help get the injured person retrained to a job that is needed in the future; the school teacher who can get the primary school to provide the framework for the pupils who are preparing them constructively for the climate crisis that we are in; the humanist who understands us people and what it takes if we are to get even more people involved in the green transition; or the science that ensures and improves technological tools that reduce the emissions of CO2 craftsmen who translate good ideas into good craftsmanship and are crucial if we are to succeed with the green transition; and that is how I could continue the list. To create the good framework for our education and to create the education that does not happen with a fingertips. It is extremely complex and a hugely complicated task, and it is a great task if it is to succeed. It's not just about some rooms, some tables and some chairs. It's about having some good academic and study environments that young people choose to, it's about breaking the code so that young people don't drop out, but actually get an education, and it's about being able to handle it when adolescences rise, but also when they fall. This requires the implementation of many years of reduction policy and the marketing of our education with fierce competition for their survival, instead of creating high-quality education which is free to take, creates equality, social mobility, and which empowers the individual. That is why, of course, I am also seriously concerned when the new framework agreement does not have sufficient funding and when the future of small subjects and diversity looks bad. In today's supplementary agreement, the parties to the agreement refer inter alia to: for small subjects and humanities with some sentences, but without it being followed up by means. This could have been done, for example, by lifting the small trade pool, as we discussed earlier, or by other measures that can hold hands during our education programmes. And let us take the humanities as an example: the crisis in which the humanities are facing, and not least the humanities, is not resolved by setting up a task force, or by the parties to the agreement following it closely, because it is a theoretical certainty. It is a theoretical certainty which does not materialise in reality when you do not allocate the resources that are needed for it. Humanities and also parts of social sciences have been increasingly underfunded both as fields of research and training for a number of years. Let us start with the educational: in terms of education, the dimensioning has mainly gone beyond the humanities, and the tariffs are too low, not least compared to the wet subjects. Humanities, as interpreting science, where learning takes place through discussions, cannot use mass lectures to the same extent as science subjects, for example. learn mathematical formulas as they are. In practice, such training is also hit harder by a poor economy, and especially small subjects are already in a very strong position today, because there are no educational forces to ensure the breadth and level of education. There are many examples of the fact that the quality of education suffers from the bias in the field of humanities, and this is true in relation to lessons, contact with counsellors and different standards for the hours of specialist guidance, and that is how the list can continue. This is why over time there is also a vicious spiral of undermining the quality of education, which in turn can be used as an argument for closures and which frightens young people from applying for these courses. Similarly, we could also talk about research, about how it is part of an evil spiral that the economy does not follow. And when I mention this, and it's just to finish it, it's because we can't see today's deal in a vacuum. It doesn't work in a vacuum. It plays hard with the reality of which it is a part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172020	Thank you. I do not see anyone making brief remarks. That is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Gitte Willumsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172040	We are dealing today with motion for a resolution No. B 68, where the proposers want to renegotiate the agreement on more and better education throughout Denmark. The Conservative People's Party is included in the agreement, which by the way finally landed last night late in the evening. Unfortunately, I didn't have the opportunity to be there myself. It was my party colleague who helped to complete the agreement. We are in the agreement because we want young people to have the opportunity to take an education throughout the country, perhaps in their own region. We are also concerned with the fact that there is also the desired labour force in rural areas. We may get that easier if there are also educational institutions throughout the country. This might be one of the gripes that makes it possible for us to solve that challenge. During the negotiations, we have paid particular attention to the fact that the quality of the education transferred must not diminish in relation to the education available in the large cities. That is why we are pleased that the Minister has found extra money to solve this task, because we will not compromise on quality. The Conservative People's Party is pleased to be part of the agreement that has just been reached, because we want quality education to take place throughout Denmark, and we cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172211	There is a brief comment on Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172215	Thank you. In fact, I would like to ask Conservatives some of what I have also asked about at the Left and the SF. So it may not come as a huge surprise that that is what I would like to ask. Is it a requirement for Conservatives that these almost 2 000 training places should be closed down, or could Conservatives imagine finding another solution so that these training places could actually contribute to the ambition that I also see Conservatives have, i.e. to have quality education throughout the country? You couldn't imagine that we could try to figure out how to get them into that equation instead of pulling them out of the equation from the cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172258	Now it has been a task to get the number of training places to vote with the number of young people we look into in the future, and there we can unfortunately see that too few children have been born and thus we get fewer in the youth years. So we have helped to scale down and make relocations, but overall we don't get less education in Denmark. They're gonna be somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172328	Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172329	So I would just like the Conservative rapporteur to answer: is it not, therefore, Conservatives' ambition that we should have more young people taking higher education? I had hoped that we could work together on that. After all, there is an enormous need for labour and skilled labour. The skills here are in demand. So will Conservatives not be working to get more people on the training car if you just want to close the seats?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172403-2	Well, we would really like to support that all young people have an opportunity to get an education, no matter where they live in Denmark, and that's what we want to support, and we think this agreement supports that. That's why we're in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172420	Then it's Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172422	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The text of the agreement contains some wise considerations in relation to the humanities concern and recognises the importance of setting up this task force. I would like to ask what the rapporteur has of concern about the humanities and what the rapporteur thinks might be good ways of dealing with it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172452	We need to have as broad an educational aspect in Denmark as possible, and that includes the humanities as well. That is why we must, of course, support it. We hope, then, that some of the development opportunities provided for in the agreement will also be used for humanities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172509	Victoria Velasquez, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172510	Thank you. It also says that it will be followed closely and that the Minister will be informed, for example. I guess if there's some sort of shut-down training, too. But what does the rapporteur think about doing if you suddenly see that there are small subjects closing or that there are some courses at risk of being closed down? Does the rapporteur think that we must find the means to hold hands under them, or what does the rapporteur think we should do if the plausible scenario, which you yourself described in the contract circle, is to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172543-2	Now we want to follow this closely, and every six months there is a follow-up to it, and then we will have a discussion there with the other parties to the agreement, and then we will have to find good solutions there, we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172600	Thank you to the rapporteur. No further brief comments. We move on to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172613	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I was and am pleased with the agreement we reached last summer on the relocation of training places. And I am actually happier today, after we have reached an agreement on the implementation of the agreement. We have seen an educational landscape where the institutions have actively and constructively entered into the task, have offered a wide range of initiatives which I am sure will provide a better educational landscape than we have today. We have an agreement now, where the total number of training places is maintained and probably increased, where we can support campuses around the country, where it sprawls with ideas for more education in many places, and with educational colleges, digital educational opportunities, etc. etc. I see that the agreement pushes us to places of education in a constructive way, so that they also understand and recognise the fundamental political desire to stop the relocation of education to the major university towns and to create a development that goes the other way, for the sake of the balance of the whole country and for the benefit of both public and private employers, who would like to have better opportunities to recruit throughout the country, and also for the benefit of those who would like to take education in the neighbourhood. There are a lot of people who only take an education if they can find someone in whom they can see themselves in their own vicinity. This agreement should provide better opportunities for this. So I would just like to say to the authors of the motion for a resolution that they should read through the agreement of last night and just consider whether it is all so bad anyway. I certainly do not need to renegotiate the agreement and cannot therefore, of course, support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172755	I do not see that there are any brief comments to the rapporteur, so thank you, Mr President. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers here for Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322172811	Thank you. I think this resolution has only become more topical today, because it is now very precisely about the approx. 1,950 training places to be closed. It may not sound that much to anyone, but it is far from irrelevant. It is not just a figure in a press release that the parties to the agreement can send out and then try to talk about all the good things. Because I recognise, and I have always done so, that there are very good elements in that agreement, but I would also like to point out that there is a basic preface here which the Radical Left does not agree with, namely that we need to close these training places. It is very cool when you are asked, and I hope that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs is listening: what are the views of the Radicals about what we are going to do here? I really, really, really want to talk about that. After all, I think it is really a pity and it has become very topical to speak very specifically about the fact that we now have almost 2 000 training places to close. Shouldn't we try to find another solution for them? I simply do not believe that the parties to the agreement believe that this is the basic pretext for having education outside the four largest cities, i.e. that these almost 2 000 training places should be closed down. I think we can find another solution. That's why I'm still gonna appeal, even though you've been standing up here saying no to start with we're trying to think a little bit new. Could it not be imagined that we took exactly these training places, which are set to close, and made a plan for them? They should not close because they lack quality or because no one wants to read them, or because no one wants to hire them, but because they are located in cities. They cannot be moved out under the present framework agreement and the institutions themselves have been involved in that they cannot do so. That's why they have to close. How about instead of saying that the 1,950 seats should not be closed, but that a plan should be drawn up to ensure that 1,950 seats become more flexible training opportunities in Denmark? I understand they can't just be moved. It's not a chair you can move somewhere else and just think it's gonna work. However, we could try to work towards some of the things that are also possible: greater flexibility in our education and distance learning opportunities. There has been a lot of trouble with corona, but after all we have also brought some very good things with us, because it has been shown that in some programmes and for some students it has been a very good alternative. How about making sure that we get some super cool dormitories set up around some of the companies that are further away from the largest educational cities that demand the labour force so that students can be allowed to do their internship or exam writing, thesis writing can get associated with the companies? It will actually allow the whole of Denmark to access a lot of talented and committed young people from lots of different programmes, not only from one education, but from lots of different programmes. You could try to look at this with these almost 2,000 training places, which are currently in the process of closing down. I simply think this deserves to be revisited, and that is why we believe that the basic preface, that is to say that things should either simply move completely or just close, is wrong. We have always said that it is possible to move so many. That is the last thing I said before I left the negotiating room before the summer holidays when the framework agreement was drawn up, namely that I very much hoped that I was wrong; that all these seats could actually be moved and that therefore it would not mean that a lot of seats would be closed. It has now become apparent that this cannot be done in relation to the agreement that landed last night and that was presented this morning. Shouldn't we try to find another solution for the 2,000 study places? Why don't we try to see if we can develop something that's even cooler? I do not want to stop the establishment of teacher training in Svendborg or anything else. I'm a huge fan of the fact that there's going to be a bigger regional taximeter that's super good. We've been saying that all along. That is not what I want to touch, but I actually believe that it is highly topical now that the decision has been taken and has recognised that all these seats cannot simply be moved away from them. Why aren't we trying to find some a little cooler solutions for that? Could we actually try to think something new? Then I understand that it will also require our educational institutions to work towards this. I think it is very good that there are always people who would like to point out that the Radical Left has, after all, been in the midst of many hated agreements in the field of education. I'm not afraid to make demands and think new and think different. Let us try to develop something that could actually make sense both for young people, for our education and for our business. It takes some time, but I actually think that when you set the framework for 2030, we could actually do something that was really cool. It is against this background that I sincerely hope that it will be possible to change the premise that things have to close if they cannot simply move. We have now established that they cannot do so, so the seats must be closed. And I think we can do something better. I sincerely hope that some of the parties will take part in this. It is certainly an appeal from this point of view. And otherwise you have to stand by as a party, that you do not want to; it is a political disagreement, it is fair. But from here at least a very great appeal, whether we should not try to see if we could find a solution to these almost 2,000 study places that are currently in a position to close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173512	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173516	Thank you very much. I acknowledge Mrs Katrine Robsøe's commitment to this matter. At least there is no mistake about that. But there is one thing I simply find it difficult to understand, and it is that the heart of the radical left's criticism is that 1 950 places of study are to be closed. When the Radical Left itself sat with the government and with this area of ministers, a dimensioning agreement was made which today amounts to 9,600 seats. Why was it okay to close 9,600 seats when the Radical Left was in power but not 1,900 today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173553	Well, I'd be happy to answer that. I think there is a basic reason why there should be a certain probability that the skills you learn in your education can actually also be used in the work you should have afterwards. That is what unemployment-based dimensioning is all about. In fact, I think that is a basic principle of soundness, and I am very much in favour of that. I would also like to say honestly that there are always challenges to things. I hope that it will be possible to adapt it. I have at least heard concerns about some geographical differences in the unemployment-based dimensioning, among other things. in the IT field. That's the kind of thing I think it might be good to have a look at. However, the basic principle of this is that we stand firm on the basis of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173645	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173646	So it was sensible to close a lot of study places in fact, if I have to count on it, almost five times as many study places as Radical Left did for the labour market, but it is not wise for the balance of the country to do anything; so is it quite reprehensible? In other words, the Radical Left understands that it is very difficult for the people out there to say: Well, when the Radical Left closes 9,600 seats, it's jong, but when it's some other than Radical Left who take 1,900 seats at a time when there's going to be falling vintages, because it's not the case that the individual student gets fewer opportunities then it's not okay? Does the Radical Left not see that it is a little difficult to understand for the rest of the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173722-2	No, I actually think that many people think it is a good basic thing that you should be able to use the skills you get on your education, i.e. have a certain probability of being able to spend them on the work you get afterwards. At least I think so. And then the difference is just here and I actually can't quite understand if the Social Democratic Party thinks that the only way to save and secure better education throughout the country is to close these almost 2,000 educational places. I cannot understand why it is such a core issue that these training places absolutely have to be closed down.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173758	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173759	Thank you. I would like to start by commending the rapporteur for recognising the good elements of this agreement. I think we have not heard that from the rapporteur. So it was nice that there was time for it on the platform today, among other things. that there are courses coming to Svendborg. I should like to say this from someone who comes from that area that we are very, very happy that there is. There will be a higher taximeter for the educations located outside the largest cities. But I do not think that was a very good answer that Mrs Katrine Robsøe gave to Ida Auken, and so I would like to ask something again. A few years ago, because of the name of the Radical Left and the government, it was a great idea to close 9 000 seats because they were not thought to be in employment. Now, with this plan, it is proposed that 1,950 places be closed to create a Denmark in balance, and you have even had the educations inside. They've had the opportunity to say that if they didn't want to close them, they could move them. Why is it this time so terrible when the Radical Left thought it was a really sensible policy a few years ago? What is the huge difference between Mrs Katrine Robsøe and the Radical Left this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173858	First of all, I have actually stood here in the Chair and recognised the good elements of this agreement, also in the past, but it may well be that Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg was not present there. Secondly, I assume that the Social Democrats are also still in favour of unemployment-based dimensioning, and I can see that the Minister is nodding his head. The reason why there is a difference here is, of course, whether you believe that in order to create better education in the rest of Denmark it is a core thing that these 2,000 places have to be closed down. There we are simply fundamentally divided as to whether it is a completely crucial thing, in order to have the other good educational opportunities, that they should be closed down here as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173944	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322173945	So that was a good idea at the time, and that is such a bad way of making policy today, I understand from the rapporteur. I think it's something weird. In his speech, the rapporteur says that we must try something new, that we must do something different in Denmark. But this agreement, the responsibility of this government, is precisely to do something new, because for the first time you take responsibility for not just creating more seats, which is the easy solution, and which I understand is what the rapporteur on the floor is proposing, but you also have to take some of the difficult decisions, and that is perhaps why Mrs Katrine Robsøe left the negotiating room at that time, namely that you have to reduce and relocate seats if you are to create something that is sustainable. Why is it that the Radical Left cannot recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174029	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174030	Well, I also call what has been done in this agreement geographical dimensioning, but as far as I could see in the agreement, you have at least made it very clear that you cannot call it that. So I don't know if the Social Democrats should keep comparing the two, because at least I have to figure out what they really think this should be called. I would just like to say that I would like to think new, but for me, thinking new here is just not the solution, i.e. closing a mass education place. It was just a fundamentally different approach to whether that is the answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174107	Thank you. Then it's mr. Theis Chicken Hommeltoft.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174111	Thank you very much for the floor. It's gonna go a little further than this. Because you're saying yourself that we're trying to develop something that makes sense, but you have to acknowledge somewhere also the premise that it...
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174133	I'm sorry, but we don't address directly in the Assembly Hall. It is referred to as the rapporteur or the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174137	I'm sorry. The rapporteur must also accept the premise that we are trying to do something that we believe makes sense, and in this respect we are really doing nothing more than what yours did, sorry, the rapporteur's own party comrade has expressed it in the past, and that is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, who at one point says that it is even better to transfer training than state jobs, because it can also strengthen businesses and provide more employment. Too many educations have moved to the larger cities, says Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Quote out. Isn't that exactly what we're doing, that is, we're trying to find a solution that makes sense to develop? Is that not a premise that the rapporteur can accept? Yeah, that wasn't very well put.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174239	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174242	I'm trying to answer anyway. Thanks for the question, and I'm gonna take care of the direct indictment. So, the premise that parties are doing what they believe in, I always hope is right. So I also have a belief that the Social Democrats are trying to do what they think is right here. Now there is a very concrete challenge with almost 2,000 study places that are just about to close. They haven't been set up in a new place, but they just have to shut down. Shouldn't we try to find another solution for them? Shouldn't we try to think something new for the 2,000 seats? I really think that could be really, really cool. Because it would make sure that we actually created some of the dynamics that we actually created better opportunities for Danish business to get hold of different young people with different educational backgrounds, so that you can not only attract from some courses where you have a whole education located in a particular place. I tried to answer, or the questioner will have to ask again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174351	Yeah, I'll see if there's a follow-up comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174355	Thank you very much, and I apologise again for the direct indictment. But in precisely this I choose to enjoy the good things and the sea of education and more study places, which come in parts of Denmark, which are not favoured by the same educational diversity as is seen in the larger cities. Could the Radicals and the rapporteur not also welcome this instead of focusing solely on the 2 000 seats that are closed because they cannot be moved?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174450	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174451	It is very special with two Social Democrats, one saying thank you for recognising the good things when you stand up here and the other saying that you do not recognise them. But we agree with that and we have proposed a regional taximeter ourselves. Well, we thought that was a good idea. It makes sense; it is more expensive to run education outside the four largest cities. But I must also say to the Social Democrats that it is also fair to discuss what the Social Democrats are not as happy about in this agreement. It is all right for the rest of us to question the elements that are at stake in this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174527	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174529	I also sometimes get to talk to myself because I'm gonna swear in the Assembly hall, so don't be sad or the rapporteur shouldn't be sad. Now I got to it, too. I think it's nice to hear that Katrine Robsøe also has some positive things to say about this agreement. I missed that. And I have also wondered, because I have read several quotes from Andreas Steenberg, who emphasizes that we could see both decentralized education and the relocation of education from the Radical Left, and that is why I could have some doubts as to whether this really was something that the education rapporteur also thought. Well, what I was actually trying to stress from the platform before is that in SF we are pathfinders, and I would like to try to talk a little about the things that Katrine Robsøe actually suggested that we could do with these places instead of digital solutions and educational colleges, which are also some of the things that the courses themselves have invited them to do. And there's actually already that in this deal. DTU makes Digital Twin, and there are several offers for residential colleges or colleges, as we think we can call it in Danish. You can think about that a lot further. And that's the good thing, because this isn't a dimensioning, it's a goal. So if it turns out that there are good things you can do instead, well then it's an opportunity up to 2030. Katrine Robsøe couldn't do that in the agreement we just made, but I wanted to tell you about it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174648	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174649	Thank you. No, the framework agreement now says that they must close if they cannot move, and that is why we are not in that agreement. However, I am actually pleased if the SF's rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Carøe, is in favour of considering whether we can save some of the 2 000 training places. Because that is actually what I am trying to appeal to with this resolution. Can we just see if we can't do something for them so we can't just flush the baby out with the bathwater? I understand that when you are elected in a particular place, you are pleased that there is an education there. I get it. You've stood in the election campaign and said you want to. Great! That's not the one I want to take from anyone. However, I would like to try to appeal to us to look at some other solutions for the seats that are to be closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174745	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174745-2	Thank you. I simply need to get Mrs Katrine Robsøe to recognise that, in addition to the 3,200 seats transferred and the 2 000 closed seats, there are also 2 000 to 3 000 newly created places outside the large cities, which are precisely what at least parts of the Radical Left would like to see us create new seats. That is why we end up in a status quo at the same time as there are falling adolescences. So there are several options for the future with this agreement too, and I would like the rapporteur to acknowledge that some new seats are actually being created with this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174820-2	I would like to acknowledge that new seats will also be created. It was one thing that was in play from the very beginning, and I know that many rapporteurs in this Chamber have fought for it. I still have the merit of digging into the funding behind this to see what is actually realistic to get set up. I actually think that we generally in here at least in sentences and what we say is very much agreed that no matter where you read, you deserve high quality. At any rate, I believe that I fully agree with the SF that this requires that we also have proper funding in place. But I would very much like to acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174900	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322174904	Thank you. It was super interesting to see a political discussion between the parliamentary basis of the government and the government about the dimensioning model very interesting. I would like to say that I am very sensitive to the fact that no one has been able, and I stress no one, to point out that fewer young people have the prospect of training. Does Mrs Katrine Robsøe agree with that? This is, of course, linked to what Mrs Astrid Carøe said, namely that the number of study places is largely the status quo with the agreement here. We are quite happy with that in the Left, because we are not talking about fewer people being trained, but about where they are trained. So one is whether Mrs Katrine Robsøe agrees that there is no prospect that fewer people will be trained. I would also like to ask whether Mrs Katrine Robsøe can point out where the agreement here contains obstacles to the creation of educational colleges, i.e. residential colleges, or can make digital collaborations. I would like Mrs Katrine Robsøe to point out where to prevent this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175015-2	I shall try to answer Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. The reason why I may have a concern about how this will affect the proportion of young people and the number of young people who receive training is, among other things, that: on the basis of the report drawn up by the DEA, which I recognise has been drawn up on the basis of the framework agreement, and I sincerely hope that this is not the case. As I said just now, there are some things that we need to look down into with funding, because I actually believe that if we are to succeed in education throughout the country, it really requires us to ensure quality and that there is something that makes it particularly interesting to apply to that very educational provision, otherwise I think we will have a great deal, very difficult to get it up and running in the cool way that it actually deserves to be run when you want to set up new education also outside cities. Then I think I have just forgotten the last part of Mrs Ulla Tørnæs's question. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175118	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175119	I'll be happy to repeat it. Katrine Robsøe Thank you. ) A large part of Mrs Katrine Robsøe's speech was, after all, about the possibility of setting up colleges of education, and I just ask: what is it in the agreement that prevents one from making educational colleges or for that matter digital cooperation, so that one can live in West Jutland, but still be associated with an educational establishment somewhere? What is preventing this from happening in the agreement? I would like Mrs Katrine Robsøe to point that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175150	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175151	Thank you. Well, there's nothing I've read to prevent that. What I am appealing to here from the platform is that we are just trying to rethink if we cannot get any of the almost 2 000 places of study saved by thinking in those fields. That's what I'm appealing to. In fact, I believe that we have a common task in here to think about how we develop our education in a direction, so that it goes with the social development we have, also with the new demands and the new desires we have in our society. But there is nothing to prevent us from doing so, but I would just appeal to you to have it looked at in relation to the education that you are closing right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175231	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175231-2	In fact, it's rare for you to witness this. One can only imagine what the debate would be like at a radical group meeting. I think that this is in line with what Radicals said in the last parliamentary term, when Mr. Andreas Steenberg, a significant radical parliamentarian, said to his own television station up in Central Jutland, where he was elected, that it was actually more important to make a relocation plan for education than to move the jobs out. That's exactly what the government has done. So I just have to ask precisely: what has happened in the radical group room since the Radicals have turned 180 degrees on a plate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175315	I'm sorry if I'm gonna laugh a little bit. Nothing has happened in the radical group room. I know that the Social Democrats have spent an enormous amount of time trying to contact journalists with all sorts of things. It seems that this has been very busy in the party that we in the Radical Left will otherwise be allowed to sit in government offices. That is also a way of working together. But what has happened is that we simply do not agree with the premise that some of the training places in the cities must be closed down. Now I have written this motion for a resolution. It's for us to get a look at these training places. Well, you can't move them. After all, the agreement that landed this morning recognises that these almost 2 000 training places cannot be moved within the framework agreement that was drawn up before the summer holidays. They're just closing. It has nothing to do with relocation; they just close. Shouldn't we try to figure it out instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175417	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175418	In other words, I have to go home to the young people in the 3rd year in the high schools at home in Esbjerg and tell them that the law thing that they want to study in Esbjerg and have the opportunity to do is not going to happen, because it just closes. In fact, I think they are really, really happy that there will actually be a relocation of study places to Esbjerg, so that they can also study law, so that it is not just an education that is only in the big cities. Moving is therefore moving; it is not closing. And now there are two kinds of politicians: those who respond specifically to the questions and those who answer bypass. I think that the Radicals usually answer the questions, so what has changed since Mr. Andreas Steenberg made his statements in 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175503	I think it is very clear to hear from the questioner that perhaps the questioner was not just here when we started the debate, nor was he here when I started talking, and that is of course also regrettable for the questioner. Because then the questions can get a little weird, at least in the context of this, when you have not heard what has been spoken about from the platform. I just have to point out to the questioner: you are closing educational places here. And exactly in my introduction I said: I do not object to the setting up of new courses, nor do I object and we would like to see that written in the Jutland West Coast law in Esbjerg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175542	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175547	Thank you. This is quite an interesting discussion. I would like to say quite openly that in the Danish People's Party we actually want a different balance between the number of training places in the large cities and in the countryside, because we want there to be genuine educational provision throughout the country. When I look at this proposal, it also says: the proposers recognise the need to set up education throughout the country and want to help create places outside the major cities. I think that we are in a situation where we look into the fact that there will be fewer young people, and I hear the radical rapporteur say that we have to keep a tight grip on the number of training places in the big cities and then we have to set up some out there locally. However, if we are to be reasonably balanced, how will the rapporteur give anyone the chance that the small supply that is around will actually provide the framework for the creation of these training courses that will enable young people to stay out there and take an education?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175645	First of all, I really think it's important that we make sure we get some educations that you choose and that aren't such a thing about that if you can't get into one of the four largest cities, then you can get in there. It is really important that we do something that makes sense. So, could we not try to think in how we could make some more special directions if there are educational institutions that would like to? Now we have to negotiate teacher training. Could there be thoughts of that kind, so one made sure that some of the teacher training services that are in less populated areas are actually getting something, so it's gonna be really cool. I think that's some of what you should do. Then it is no secret that in the Radical Left we have an ambition that we should have many more on the training car. That is also why we have presented an ambitious proposal on how to bring far more children and young people with us. We call it the children's promise, because we do not in fact believe that we can be familiar with the fact that so many children and young people today never get a qualification.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175751	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175752	I fully agree that we cannot be aware that many people do not receive a qualification. That is why we also need a great many more educations that are closer to young people, because those who do not want to move into a large city do not really have anything to choose from. They're gonna have to take what's in the local area. Is it not reasonable to say that we must give priority to moving education into the country both for the sake of the young people who are out there so that they can take an education and for the sake of the companies who are out there so that they can get some who are educated? Why does Katrine Robsøe not want to contribute to that development?
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175826	But let me make it clear that you can successfully create new training opportunities when you do it wisely when you make sure that there is a great collaboration with the business community when you have thought that there are young people who would like to apply and when you know that there is a foundation to build a great study environment around. And we would really like to be involved in that, but that means that we need to make sure that there is something specific there that is great to apply for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175902	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Katrine Robsøe. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220322175916	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 23 March 2022, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
