ParlaMint-DK_20220408100015	The meeting is open. I have received letters from the Prime Minister that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 5 April 2022, it was decided that the power of the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing under § 67 (a). 2 of the Law on the Administrative Board of the Municipalities to appoint the member of the Local Authorities Salaries Board appointed by the Minister of Home Affairs and Housing, is transferred from the Minister of Home Affairs and Housing to the Minister of Finance, and that, as part of his appointment to the Minister of Justice, the Resort Responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service contracts relating to the basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks of manned office locations and supervisory offices, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user administration, information security tasks relating to senior and contracts and supply management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations related to the Directorate of Road, is transferred from the Minister of Transport and Finance to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 March 2022. The messages will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 5 April 2022 states that the power of the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing under § 67 (a). 2, in the law on the municipal administration to appoint the member of the Municipal Council of Labour appointed by the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, shall be transferred from the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing to the Minister for Finance per year. 1 June 2022. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen • To the President of the Danish Parliament In my opinion, the Royal Resolution of 5 April 2022 provides for the transfer of responsibility for any decisions on recruitment and staff law relating to the spouse of Minister of Justice Nick Hækkerup as part of his appointment to the Police Department from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Taxation, since questions about the ability of the Minister of Justice to deal with such cases could be raised. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign Mette Frederiksen • To the Speaker of the Danish Parliament In my opinion, the Royal Resolution of 25 February 2022 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks at manned office locations and supervisory offices, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user administration, information security tasks relating to the preceding, and contracts and supplier management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations related to the Road Directorate are transferred from the Minister of Transport and Finance to the Minister of Finance per. 1 March 2022. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20220408100134	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 19 April 2022. The reason is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408100159	As you know, a majority of Parliament's EU-enthusiastic parties have decided that on 1 June we will have a referendum, and this will then be the third attempt to dismantle one of Denmark's reservations about the European Union. The last more than one week has gone by discussing languages and semantics, because the government has deliberately tried with a misleading text that should favour the yes side. And there I would like to acknowledge that we have now come to a better view and presented a text which everything else just embraces wider and more precisely and also describes what the Danes will have to decide on 1 June. Hopefully, so does the fact that we can now start discussing the substance. After all, it is a fact that one of the provisions that the abolition of the reservation will activate in relation to Denmark is the provision that the EU Treaty talks about the development of genuine EU defence. It is rather unclear whether the Danish Government wants Denmark to be a part of the EU defence, if necessary, and how it views us in relation to NATO, and how it views us in relation to our entire defence position in relation to the Americans, the British, the Canadians, etc. We know that there are a great many people in Brussels and the surrounding area, not in the NATO headquarters, but in the EU headquarters, who want autonomy, that is to say they want the European Union to be able to stand alone. We also know that a quarter of the Member States of the European Union are not members of NATO, and that is why it is most likely to say that an EU defence, an EU army, whatever it may be, would be a kind of contradiction, a counterpoint to NATO. This is not something we in the Danish People's Party are enthusiastic about. We believe that the surest guarantee of our freedom and our democracy is precisely the alliance with the Americans and the British, who, as we know, are both outside the European Union. And that is why we have called for this question debate today in order to become a little bit more aware of what it really is that the government and its EU party colleagues will use the power to which they may be given, in case the Danes listen to their recommendations and abolish the defence reservation on 1 June. Should Denmark be part of an EU defence, and is that something that should replace the Danish territorial defence? Where does it put us in relation to other military alliances? NATO, JEF etc.? So far, we have the benefit of getting answers to all this. Among other things: Because of the strange semantic maneuver with which the government has a little awkwardly initiated this campaign. Fortunately, this has now been put aside, and we hope to be able to focus on substance and hopefully to go for a weekend and Easter a little more wiser in terms of what the European Union really wants to do in terms of an EU defence. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408100457	Thank you. Then it's the PM for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408100508	Thank you. And thank you for the opportunity to contribute to an important and very topical debate on Denmark's security. The world has changed significantly over the past two months. There is war in Europe. What many thought belonged to the past has again become reality. It's a brutal power policy. These are the largest flows of refugees within Europe since the Second World War, and most recently quite terrible pictures from Butja, pictures that are burning in all of us. Russia's behaviour and war in Ukraine have basically created a new security policy situation in Europe and therefore also in Denmark. We have to deal with that. Putin's actions show us that we cannot take our freedom, our prosperity, our welfare and our democracy for granted. Denmark is part of the world's strongest political community of values in NATO and in the EU. And in recent weeks, we in the West have moved closer together. We stand together to meet Russia with resolute sanctions. We are united in strengthening NATO's eastern flank. The war in Ukraine underlines the need for Europe's democracies to jointly take greater responsibility for our own security. We can only do that if we cooperate even more closely with each other on defence and security policy, first and foremost in NATO, but also, of course, in Europe. We in the government always want to strengthen transatlantic cooperation. The United States is our most important ally, nothing will ever change that, but at the same time the United States is asking us Europeans to take greater responsibility for our own continent. A number of European countries have already taken decisive defence and security policy decisions. Germany has made up 70 years of security policy. Other countries follow suit. That is also what is happening in Denmark. At home, the government has reached an agreement with the Left, the SF, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party on a new national compromise on Denmark's security policy. We agree on a historic boost to Danish defence, and we also agree that the defence reserve is no longer what serves Denmark best. That is why we ask all Danes to go to the polls on 1 June. Denmark is a country that takes responsibility. We lift our share of the burden, even when it's difficult. Today, we are the only country in the European Union that cannot participate fully in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. We are alone with one reservation. This means that we do not have the opportunity to take responsibility and contribute in defence, even if we wish to do so. But that also means that we are not looking after Denmark well enough. We are in the most serious security policy situation since the end of the Cold War, perhaps even for even longer. Few cuts in recent history have had such great and defining significance for our future as what we are in right now. And that is why the question we must first ask ourselves as Danes is this: Where does Denmark belong? My answer is clear: Denmark belongs in the West, in our security policy cooperation, in NATO therefore 2%. This is, of course, about the West and Europe, and then it is about Denmark, about Denmark's security and about Europe's security, and thus about our fundamental values, which we are reminded we cannot take for granted: democracy, freedom and peace. We want Denmark to shoulder our responsibilities, to make our contribution. And that is why the government, together with the parties behind the national compromise, wants Denmark to be able to enter into the European security and defence cooperation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408100911	Thank you. Then there is one brief comment from the rapporteurs. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408100921	Thank you, President. Thank you, Prime Minister. It is as if there is no difference between Europe and the European Union. There is a lot of talk about the Americans wanting us in Europe to do more militaryly, and I think that is right. It is also a wish that I share. But is it wise that this should happen without the British? Is it wise for this to happen without the Norwegians, the Icelanders and all the other European countries who have chosen to be outside the European Union? Would it not be smarter to create a European dimension within the NATO umbrella, so that not only militaryly but also in relation to intelligence, cybercrime and all the things that are today part of Denmark and the West's security and defence, the British, the Americans, the Canadians and all the other NATO countries have with us? What guarantee can the Prime Minister give that the EU we are building today, tomorrow, but also in five years and ten years' time, will not be a challenge that divides NATO? Because it will not strengthen Denmark's freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101022	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101023	I am absolutely convinced that it will not. We do not see any suggestion of division between NATO and the European Union, on the contrary. We've never worked more closely together than we do right now. And it would not be wise to create a security policy or a defence policy without the whole of Europe, but we will not be supporting that at any time on the Danish side. And I hear no one who has a wish to do so. Very recently, on one and the same day, we first had a NATO summit with the participation of all Member States, then a G7 meeting, where the new Japanese leader also flew to Europe to support cooperation with other partners, and then an EU summit where President Biden attended. It is historic that the three meetings take place on the same day. And that in itself is the strongest emphasis on what the questioner is asking, namely that the West is united. We in NATO are doing this, we in the European Union are doing so, and we are doing so in cooperation with those countries which, for one reason or another, are not members of either of them. So no, there is no division and there is no division.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101135	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101137	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is a mistake that we have not previously joined defence policy cooperation and security policy cooperation in the European Union. So is it a mistake that that referendum has not been held in the past, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on the excellent work he has done. You have long had a majority in the Folketing in favour of it, if you wanted it. So, is it a mistake to take that vote now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101214	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101215	No, I don't think so. I believe that this was an expression of both incredibly skilful political craftsmanship, but in fact also broader than the fact that the Danes were brought together in 1993 about the reservations. I think that was the right thing at the time. But it is rare that something that is right at one time is necessarily 20, 30, 40 years later. And now we are in a different situation where we are directly threatened in the European security structure, which we would be even more if the Enhedslisten were right to withdraw from NATO. Denmark would then be undressed and extremely exposed back. Therefore, right now the time to strengthen the political communities is not to the contrary, not to go national alone, as one wants from Enhedslisten on this issue. We're gonna stand together. And it is the political communities that are the greatest guarantee of the Danes that we can live in security and security and in a well-functioning democracy in the future. So we must strengthen NATO and we must strengthen the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101319	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101323	Thank you. And thank the Prime Minister for that very good speech. In the SF, we agree with everything that is being said. And I really think that this situation calls for a little reflection on the security and foreign policy that has been conducted in the past. I believe that the fact that we have a vote on our defence reserve in the European Union is also an expression of a paradigm shift in our security and foreign policy towards looking after Europe and looking after our borders, to each other and to the countries that share our common values of democracy and the security that we must ensure. Does the Prime Minister agree with that? Because it is no secret that we have had wars in the past, especially wars in the desert, which we in the SF have not been very enthusiastic about and which we now think are a mistake; perhaps we should have considered whether they were necessary. Instead, should we look at what is the threat in the future and take care of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101428	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101430	I agree, and I disagree. I disagree that it has basically been wrong to conduct an activist foreign policy. I am entirely in favour of this, and I myself have been in favour of it for many years, not least because of what happened in the Balkans, where, in my view, the international world community made the necessary decisions too late. And since then Denmark has conducted an activist foreign policy, which of course also involves the use of military power. What may be necessary when faced with an enemy of the caliber we have faced in various contexts? So I think that is the right thing to do, and I think it still is. So we don't agree. On the other hand, we agree with the basic analysis that what we need is to take care of Europe's peace, security and security, including our borders and our values. Because it is values that come together, and we should not be mistaken that we can hardly stress the seriousness of the situation we are facing today because we are faced with a Putin who does not want to do well in the West and who, after all, is now willing to commit serious crimes and abuses against the civilian population in order to achieve what we want, that is to say, on the part of Putin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101543	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101546	Thank you. I have three questions. 1) Mr. Morten Messerschmidt asked for a guarantee that an EU defence would not divide NATO, and the Prime Minister said that it saw the Prime Minister no risk of that. But can the Prime Minister give that guarantee? 2) Does the Prime Minister recognise that the EU and Europe are not the same and that the text that is expected to remain on the ballot paper, which describes European defence and security cooperation, is therefore misleading? 3) Does the Prime Minister recognise that we are already a full and full part of the EU's security policy and that that part of the ballot paper is also misleading, that is, the issue of security policy? What we are going to vote on on 1 June is, after all, solely about defence. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101639	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101640	I think we need to start where I think we should start this discussion. Because when we are faced with such a serious threat as we are doing today, with a military force, a war of aggression on the continent of Europe, it is one of the few moments in which, whether we are individuals, we are political parties or we are countries, we must make up for ourselves how we contribute best to strengthening the West. Because that is what the basic issue is, and there are parties that want to go alone. But I have to say that any division within the West only supports something else. That is why I also think it was a pity for Europe with brexit, and I believe that whoever was most pleased about it was really Putin. So when we are in the situation we are facing now with such a serious threat, we must unite, and each of us must do our best to contribute, and Denmark does that very, very well in relation to Ukraine today, but we can do even more. That is why we have to go up to 2%, and that is why we want to settle with the reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101749	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101753	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a very good speech. I just want to hear from the Prime Minister whether she does not wish to confirm that European cooperation is not a closed club for EU countries, but that it is precisely possible for our other allies to be able to take part in it, unlike us, unfortunately, in those areas where they think it makes sense, and that, for example, we should be able to take part in it. The United States, Canada and Norway are participating in the cooperation on military mobility in Europe, which is, of course, an area in which NATO, because of its mandate, finds it difficult to enter, and that it is therefore not an us and them, but that it is actually a cooperation structured in a way in which we can cooperate with our NATO allies on areas that are difficult for NATO to cope with because of its mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101833	Yes, it is quite true that the limits are in fact much more fluent than what we hear from, for example, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt's side, namely that there is a NATO and that then there is an EU. The reality is that when we sit and work and not least in this situation, our political communities are floating together, what is right, because we can do different things, but we are united in what is essential. So that very sharp division does not really take place, and the cooperation on defence and security policy is going cross-cutting. Some countries are with both places and some countries are only with the individual place, and there is also cooperation next to this, for example a JEF cooperation, which we are very, very happy about from the Danish side. Then I would also just like to say, just to round one of the questions from Mrs Pernille Vermund, now that I have the floor again, that in the real world of reality you can say that the European Union and Europe are two things that cannot be separated from each other. Because when we stand up for our Europe, we do so very much through the European Union and the political cooperation that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101944	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408101947	Thank you very much. Thank you to the Prime Minister for a very good speech, which I agreed with from end to end. There was a dimension to the national compromise that the Prime Minister did not mention, namely the desire to free himself from Russian gas, oil and coal and to convert the Danish and European energy systems in the green direction at all, so that we do not contribute to war machines around the world. And when I raise that question, it is because I would like to hear what the Prime Minister is thinking about how to connect, you can say the EU's energy policy to the EU's security and geopolitics, also in Denmark. After Easter we look forward very much to achieving concrete objectives, concrete measures for how quickly we can get rid of Russian gas in Denmark, but I think that one of the arguments for the importance of entering into European defence cooperation is that defence and security policy cannot be separated, and part of security policy is in my optics energy policy. So it could be exciting to hear the Prime Minister about how she sees the coupling and how close she thinks we can come to quickly using our energy policy in the EU and in Denmark as part of our security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408102056	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408102057	Well, actually, we can't separate anything anymore. In other words, what was said years ago about telecommunications has become a security policy. Whoever builds a port and finances it is security policy. We have known that energy policy is a security policy for many years, and we have been saying it to each other. It has certainly not been stronger and clearer in my lifetime than it is now, and one of the major security problems we face in Europe is the dependence on Russian fossil fuels, not only gas, but also oil and coal, and that is why we must get out of that dependence as quickly as possible. That is what lies in the national compromise, and indeed what Denmark has got into the conclusion texts of EU cooperation: that it is as soon as possible. We have to start negotiating that with each other. We, all of us sitting here, know that this is not something you do overnight. This requires very, very large decisions, and it requires very large investments, and there are also major dilemmas, but Denmark is one of the countries with the very best conditions. First of all, our dependence is less than that of many others, because we have expanded renewable energy more than many other countries have, but we also have a fantastic marine area that can give us even more renewable energy, and that is what we need to discuss when we meet again soon: how do we do this as quickly as possible and as wisely as possible? But the direction and conclusion we have written together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408102220	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408102237	On 24 February this year, the security situation in Europe suddenly and dramatically deteriorated. There is now war in Europe on a scale that we have not seen since World War II. All our closest friends and allies are taking stock of the new security situation in Europe these months. Before 24 February, Germany was not close to achieving NATO's 2-percent target. That is what they are about to do, and so is Denmark. And even neutral Switzerland has imposed sanctions on Russia, which Denmark has helped to determine in the EU. Russia's land war in Europe, which started on 24 February, will shape our policy for a long time to come. Putin thought he could divide the West, divide Europe with his attack on Ukraine. We've proven him wrong. Consensus is our strength, and the time is for unity and not for reservations. We have seen that NATO and the European Union can and will act together and for strength to one another. NATO's Secretary-General has said this very precisely: NATO and the European Union are two sides of the same coin; the roles are different, but the objectives are the same: defending our common values, our security. Today, 21 EU countries are also members of NATO, of which Denmark is the only country that is not fully involved in European security and defence policy cooperation. It is untenable in the world we are in now. In Europe, we must take greater responsibility for our own security. Denmark must lift its share, yes, I will go so far as to say that Denmark has a duty to strengthen Western security cooperation at a time when it is possible and where peace is threatened in Europe. That is why the government believes that we must strengthen our commitment to NATO, and that is why the government believes that Denmark should be able to participate fully in European cooperation on security and defence, and we will ask the Danes about this on 1 June. But what does it mean in concrete terms if we abolish the reservation? This means that Damark is not the only EU country outside defence cooperation. The abolition of the reservation also means quite specifically that Denmark will have the opportunity to participate in the EU's military missions and operations if, since 2003, the EU's military efforts have contributed to stability on the European continent and in our neighbourhood, for example. with an operation in Bosnia to ensure stability here in our own European neighbourhood. Today, Denmark is prevented from contributing to the joint European military efforts under the auspices of the European Union, but our Nordic neighbours are involved. Sweden is currently contributing to six out of seven operations, Finland is contributing to four, and even Norway, which is otherwise outside the EU, has been involved in several operations. Why should Denmark not actually have the same opportunities as both Norway and Sweden? The abolition of the reservation also means that Denmark will be able to participate in the EU's permanent structured cooperation, in other words PESCO, and that Denmark will be able to participate in the defence agency. This is where EU cooperation on the development and procurement of defence equipment takes place. We will see massive investment and increases in the defence of EU countries in the coming years. Therefore, it is now becoming more important for Denmark to be involved in the cooperation, help to set the direction, and there are also economics and jobs at risk. Three weeks ago, EU Heads of State or Government adopted the EU's strategic compass. This implies an ambition to establish a rapid reaction force based on voluntary contributions. Today, the defence reserve means that we are cut off from choosing at all There are a number of concrete things in which we can choose to participate if, on 1 June, we abolish the defence reserve, concrete things that strengthen our own and Europe's security, and let me make it clear: Denmark will never be forced to send military contributions if we do not want to, and with the proper involvement of the Folketing. If Denmark chooses to use military means of power as part of an EU military effort, it will be done in exactly the same way as today when we contribute to the UN, NATO or other efforts. Then, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, I will convene a meeting of the Foreign Policy Group and, having informed of the work with the Minister for Defence, the government will consult the Board of Governors in accordance with customary practice and needs. The Foreign Minister will then table a motion for a resolution with a view to obtaining the consent of the Danish Parliament to a Danish military contribution in accordance with Paragraph 19 (3) of the Constitution. 2. It will normally have to be dealt with and voted on here in the Folketing, but the vote is about more than we can and cannot do. It is about what role Denmark wants to play in the world, in Europe. We need to take greater responsibility for Denmark's security both at home and in our vicinity, stand closer together with our friends and allies. And should Denmark really be the only EU country outside when Europe's future and security are determined? No! We should be part of the community. We should lift in packs. It is our duty to strengthen the West at a time when the West needs unity and community. We want to show the world that one cannot squeeze as much as an A4 sheet between Western countries when it comes to defending ourselves and our values. Consensus gives strength. The European Union should show that Denmark is part of both NATO and the European Union. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408102824	Thank you. There are brief comments from the rapporteurs. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408102828	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now we are here before Easter, so let me almost say that I share a certain kind of suffering story with him. After all, we have served military service together in the European Parliament in the past. In this context, I would like to hear what an impression it actually made on the Foreign Minister when he was sitting in what is called the AFET, that is to say the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, where I have at least the memory that parliamentarians from the other EU countries have been able to talk passionately about how terrible it is with national defence and how crucial it is to have an EU army and an EU defence. I am sure the Foreign Minister will recall the famous Guy Verhofstadt, who is closely associated with our Commissioner, the Commissioner appointed by the government here, Mrs Margrethe Vestager. I am also sure that the Foreign Minister remembers when we all sat and heard Angela Merkel, on behalf of Germany, saying that she wanted the Eine echte europäische Armee, i.e. a genuine EU army. All these things we've been listening to together. Can the Secretary of State remember that? And does the Foreign Minister agree that this is the direction that EU cooperation is taking?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408102943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408102944	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I am happy to look back on our shared time in the European Parliament. Now, however, I was not in the AFET, the Foreign Affairs Committee, but leave it at that. I think it's really important to Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt and others who want to debate this question... to ask themselves something. The time we are in Europe when an unprovoked war of attack began on 24 February has shaken Ukraine in particular, but European security in general. Russia runs from all the obligations they signed after the end of the Cold War. What do we do as countries to strengthen our security? Denmark spends more money on defence, the 2%, and of course Denmark must also contribute to strengthening European cooperation on security and defence, by abolishing the defence reserve on 1 June. In fact, I believe we have a duty to do so, because we have a duty to strengthen the security institutions of the West and the institutions that are the guarantor of our values, democracy and peace and security. That is what we should be debating, and I look forward to discussing it with Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103052	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103055	Thank you. I have to come back to the question I put to the Prime Minister, in other words, whether it is really a mistake by the Socialist Government, by not knowing earlier, when you have had the majority to do so, that you have written a referendum on the reservation. I therefore understand both from the Prime Minister and from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is due to recent events here. I have to admit, I'll be even more puzzled. Has the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister managed to overlook the events in Chechnya? Has the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health managed to overlook the events in Syria? Okay, maybe it was mainly Muslims. But then let's move on. Has the events in Georgia been overlooked? Has it been possible to overlook the events in Afcasia? Has it succeeded in overlooking 2014 when Russia went in and conquered part of Ukraine? Have you succeeded? Otherwise, what the Secretary of State says does not make any sense. Why has that defence reserve not been lifted a long time ago if it was so important and important in relation to what is happening in Ukraine? My assessment is that it has no significance in relation to what is happening in Ukraine, just as it had no significance in relation to all the other things. But what is the PM's explanation, and what is the Foreign Minister's explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103209	Here there is a fundamental disagreement between the Enhedslisten and the government. What happened on 24 February, the unprovoked war of aggression that we have not seen on European soil since World War II on that scale, has fundamentally changed the European security situation. Why do you think that countries like Germany will change its security policy in a matter of days and will now increase its defence budget to 2%? of gross domestic product? Why do you think that's happening? Why is it believed that all NATO countries are now increasing their investments? Yesterday I attended a meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers. Here the European Union was involved, and here our partners, Ukraine, Georgia and also Sweden and Finland, were involved. In fact, there were countries, including from Asia, Japan and South Korea, plus Australia and New Zealand. What we share is to strengthen the West and our security institutions at a time when Russia is fundamentally threatening peace in Europe and peace in the world by falling outside the rules of the game. It is, of course, something that means that we must be involved, also fully, in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. That is our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103321	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103324	Thank you. There was a part of the Minister's speech that I had some doubts about, and I therefore have to ask that about Danish companies and Danish companies' ability to make money, among other things. through the EU Defence Fund. Is it true that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is saying that Danish companies are being excluded from the possibility of making money here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103352	No, the minister doesn't say that. However, Denmark has a defence reserve which means that we cannot participate fully in European security and defence cooperation, including as a country in, for example, the European Defence Agency, PESCO, structured defence cooperation. And by not being able to participate fully, this puts us at a disadvantage, for example. other EU countries that participate fully. It is the case today that there are 22 EU countries that are also NATO members. The only EU country that is also a NATO member who cannot participate is Denmark. Our Baltic friends, for example. Poland can participate, and of course Denmark must also be able to participate as a country in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103434	Thank you. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103438	Thank you to the Secretary of State for his speech. I would just like to follow up on this with the possibility for NATO countries to participate in European cooperation. Is it not true that Denmark, as it is today, is the only NATO country that is not potentially able to participate in projects under European defence and security cooperation, for example? This military mobility project in which the United States, Canada and Norway also participate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103501	Yes, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, I can confirm that. So it can be said that it is not only in the cooperation of the EU countries in the field of security and defence, but it is also in fact non-EU countries, including our closest ally the United States, Canada, but also Norway, that can participate. We cannot choose to participate because we have a reservation. I think we should change that so that we can choose to participate, not only among the EU countries, but also with our like-minded closest ally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103529	Thank you. Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103532	Thank you to the Secretary of State for a very good speech. One of the things I'm a little concerned about is what we're gonna do with this defence and security cooperation in the future. There is no doubt that we are in a completely new security policy reality and that we will need all the tools we can find to ensure security in Europe. And when I look down on the list of missions, there are many that I think we could have been in at least. The first missions elsewhere entrusted to the United Nations were peacekeeping missions. Miner clearance missions. Places where Denmark had troops, but where we had to drag them home because they suddenly became the EU's responsibility and we were outside. In the future, I would be sorry to see it unfold when we can look at the situation that Europe is in right now. We need to be able to contribute. And what does the Foreign Minister think in the future should be our role in Denmark? What are we gonna do, and where is this gonna go?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103635	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103637	That is a very good question that Mrs Valentina Berthelsen is asking here. It is important that we are in our neighbourhood, for example. in the Western Balkans, in Bosnia, where it was actually a NATO-led operation at the beginning. And when it turned into an EU-led operation, Denmark had to resign. The same was true of North Macedonia. And if you could imagine that there will once be an EU-led military training mission in Ukraine... let us hope that there will soon be peace and opportunity for it... then it will actually be the case that Denmark, because of our defence reserve, will not be able to participate in helping to train Ukrainians. We can participate by supplying weapons, but we cannot participate by training Ukrainians. And that is where we live in a Europe where we have to take greater responsibility for our security, including in the neighbourhoods. The war in Ukraine clearly shows why this is so. That is why I say that Denmark not only has an opportunity, but also, in fact, I think, a duty to participate in strengthening Western security cooperation, including cooperation within the European Union and, of course, also in NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103739	Thank you. The last is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Conservative People's Party. No, I'm sorry, Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103749	Well, it's gonna be Easter vacation soon. Thank you to the Minister for a very good speech. As the Prime Minister also said before, there are several interests that are intertwined in the security challenge we are facing now. And our foreign and security policy also flows much stronger together. What does the Foreign Minister see as potential opportunities in relation to the response forces that the EU can send out and is engaged in around the world, so how can it also play along with our foreign policy interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103828	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103829	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. That is also why I quoted the Secretary-General of NATO. For NATO and EU cooperation are two sides of the same coin. And in reality, we strengthen our security by having close, close cooperation between the European Union and NATO, because we can do different things. You do different things. Strengthening our security today is also about cybersecurity, it is about climate change, not least in relation to our neighbouring countries. We can just see how Ukraine has now been attacked by Russia. I myself have been to Georgia and Moldova recently to support them too. We can help them with that in different ways. There is the Western Balkans where we can also support, including through military training, etc., so that those countries can resist, for example. Russian pressure. So it is so important that the European Union and NATO work together, and that is actually why I referred to my meeting yesterday, where the European Union participates as a natural part together with NATO Foreign Ministers, in terms of how we can strengthen security in the light of Russia's invasion war against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103931	Thank you. Then there is no more for the Secretary of State, but in return, the Secretary of Defense must be on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408103946	Thank you for that, President. Putin's brutal assault on Ukraine has changed Europe. There was a time before February 24th, and there is a new and serious time after February 24th. This is where Europe's democracies have to stand together, together for our values, together against Putin. And it is indeed now that we must fight for our values of democracy, peace and freedom. There is a need for us, together in Europe, to take much greater responsibility for our common European security. We need to share responsibility for sharing our security. We cannot always rely on the United States to solve our problems, and the reality is that together we can make a difference. Together, we can contribute to peace and stability in our neighbourhood, and this is becoming even more important in the years to come. Putin's attacks on Ukraine have brought Europe together and, above all, the will to strengthen our defence. Denmark must, of course, seize the opportunity to help strengthen the fight for our common values, the fight for our common security and defence policy. The world has changed since the reservation was adopted 30 years ago. The reality is that Putin threatens our values and our freedom. Denmark is a strong country with many opportunities, but we are too small a country to stand alone outside the community and we will never be able to defend ourselves against any possible threat. That is why we need to stand with the Member States of NATO and we need to be closer to the other Member States of the European Union. We decide for ourselves what we want to participate in here. Denmark will be free to say yes or no to participating in the various parts of the cooperation. An example of a mission that could of course be in clear Danish interest to participate in is the EU's operation in Bosnia. Here the European countries are working to strengthen peace and stability in the country. The work is in clear Danish interest and we could help to take greater responsibility for security and stability in our immediate neighbourhood, but we cannot do so because we are not involved in the cooperation. If we choose to participate in the cooperation, we will have the opportunity to make concrete efforts around Europe • efforts for peace, security and stability that fit one with what is the foundation of Danish foreign and security policy. That's what this is about. That is why the government wants Denmark to enter Europe's strengthened cooperation in defence, also called PESCO. The enhanced cooperation must allow Europe to have clear answers to the new threats that we can see now and that are growing far too big. It requires cooperation. Some areas of cooperation today cover the efforts to protect us in terms of cybersecurity, maritime security and military mobility, which have also been discussed here today already. These are projects that Denmark will be able to decide for itself if you want to participate in, but there is no doubt that these are projects that will be of great benefit both to Denmark's safety and security and to our business community's opportunities to secure new growth and job opportunities for many Danes. Think about the threats we're looking into now. One of the co-operations is about strengthening efforts and defense against cyber attacks. Denmark can do something here, but together we can do more with the others. If we choose to join, it will be good for Danish jobs and it will be good for our safety and security. PESCO can also improve the opportunities for our participation in the European Defence Fund. The fund supports EU countries' research and development, and it will be in clear interest for a small country such as Denmark, which spends good money and money on research, to get closer to what actually also provides job and growth opportunities. We in the government want Denmark to become a member of the European Defence Agency. This gives us opportunities to influence new defence projects, and at the same time it gives us opportunities to secure Danish jobs, work for Danish interests and strengthen opportunities for our research institutions. All of this is for the purpose of strengthening our security and security, and for Danish jobs and companies to have better opportunities. In other words, we decide for ourselves. In Denmark, we have one defense... one Danish defence... which participates in NATO... and participates in the United Nations... but why shouldn't that defence help ensure peace and stability in Bosnia, for example? Since our neighbours are active in ensuring peace and stability, why is it that Denmark should not be here? That's what this is all about. There is a time before and a time after Putin's attack on Europe. We need to bring Europe together now. We must strengthen Danish defence opportunities to fight for our values. We must fight for our Danish values. And that is what we do best together and in an even stronger community where we stand together against Putin and his fight against the values that we have fought for for for generations both within the European Union and NATO. No division, but unity is the strongest response to the threat currently being posed by Putin. That's what surprised him. It is the cohesion of NATO, and it is the cohesion of the European Union that he had expected him to split, but which has gained even stronger cohesion. Now is the time for Denmark to choose. It is now that we have to choose whether stronger EU and Danish participation in that cooperation is not the right response to the threat that Putin poses right now. That is why the government recommends that we abolish the defence reserve. That is why, of course, I recommend a yes to our full participation in this cooperation. For it is in clear Danish interest to be allowed to help influence developments and to join forces in the fight against Putin and the atrocities that he is pouring out on an unspeakable people in Ukraine at the moment, and the instability that he is creating in Europe. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408104627	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408104632	Thank you, President. It was then the third minister we heard today, but we have still not received an answer to the question that has been asked and that the Minister can read in the back, namely whether you want to include Denmark in a common EU defence. That is the point, Minister. What is going to happen in the European Union? And I don't mean today or tomorrow, because we know that. Now you have a reaction force of 5,000 men. We know for sure that this is not enough for Brussels. We also know that in recent years there have been various EU army units that have carried out operations in Mali, Somalia and other African countries, without Denmark, because we have our defence reserve. However, what we lack an answer to is whether this government or the parties with which it has concluded an agreement and which may later form a government wants a common defence of the European Union; whether you want to take part in some of the conflicts with which we have seen the European Union commit itself militarily, for example. in Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408104736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408104737	In Denmark, we have one defence, and we decide where to take action. We decide whether to participate in peace and stability and to deter Putin in the Baltic. Right now we have just over 200 soldiers in Estonia, and we have here today a resolution which proposes to allow us to strengthen that effort. For example, the Prime Minister, together with four other party leaders in Latvia, announced that Denmark was ready to make a battle battalion for our common defence of our good friends and close allies in the Baltic. We decide for ourselves, and the Folketing decides whether we want to or not. That is also the case with EU cooperation in this area. It's up to us. The reality is that it is probably one by one that will be the same soldiers as, for example, if we were to be able to help strengthen the opportunities for peace and stability in Bosnia, there will be, together with virtually the same countries that are also present in the Baltic. They will also be there and are already there today. Denmark's problem is that we cannot be there, even if instability is created, even though this is a very unstable framework for peace and development in the Balkans. One can guess who is behind it, but I think that some of what we are talking about here is that we are facing the very same threat that we are facing now in Ukraine, which the Baltic countries fear and which other countries in Europe fear. And why should Denmark not be a part of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408104925	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408104928	I understand that Putin's attack on Ukraine has reinforced trends that were absolutely clear, and I also understand the importance of saying clearly to it, including arming the people of Ukraine with weapons. We fully support this. The question is what this has to do with the defence reserve. Then the Minister for Defence mentions Bosnia. In other words, for a long time, long before Putin attacked Ukraine in the last instance, we have been raising the issue of Bosnia both in the Foreign Policy Name and in the European Committee and saying that we had to do something. And not once have we received the response from the government that the reason we could not do anything was because we had a defence reservation. We have never had that answer enough because there is no connection and that is why the problem in Bosnia has only become a problem now. Or has it been a problem all along? And aren't those the tools you've wanted to use in the past? I have to admit that the government has said you're going to do something that's still good? Because if that is not the case, that means that the government has been wrong and should have abolished the defence reserve in the past. Then I just have one question. With regard to commitments in PESCO, can the Minister for Defence just say a few words about what obligations we will have there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105049	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105050	There, too, we choose what we want to be in, and what I think Søren Søndergaard should notice is that it would be another strengthening of our security and security in Denmark. For example, if you look at the cyber area, I think, despite the fact that there are disagreements in this Chamber on this point today, that we can agree that we are too small a country to face the enormous challenge of our own. Why should Denmark not join forces to strengthen efforts in the cyber area here? That is why it is quite a good example of what it will mean to be part of that cooperation too. As far as Bosnia is concerned, the reality is that we cannot participate because it is an EU operation. I believe that in the Enhedslisten as well as in the Social Democratic Party there are very many refugees from Bosnia who are active in our party associations. They're nervous about what's happening now. Denmark cannot be a part of this. We have decades of experience in resolving conflicts and helping to create peace and stability. We have had to pull out because it was in the Europe that is emerging that there will be a need, not for division, but for unity to fight for our values, for peace, democracy and freedom for even more people on our European continent, which is why we cannot be here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105213	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105215	Thank you. I just don't know where to start. The Minister repeats what we heard the Minister of Foreign Affairs indicate earlier, namely that Danish companies suffer from the fact that we have a defence reserve in the EU. That is simply not correct. The correct thing is that Danish companies, on an equal footing with other companies in the EU within the single market, can seek funds from the European Defence Fund. Can the Minister confirm that? That's question number one. Question number 2: The minister makes it sound like we don't have enough focus on cybersecurity. Can the Minister not confirm that NATO has a major project which deals precisely with cybersecurity? So that is where the muscles lie and that it is not true that we are completely vulnerable to cybercrime if we are not part of the European Union's defence? It's just two questions. It will sound as if we are completely outside everything and we are completely ignoring the fact that these things are covered by NATO. And even if we wanted to join together in Europe, including Britain and Norway, which are not EU countries, to protect us more from the Balkans, we can do so today under the auspices of NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105337	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105340	Well, I hope that the questioner has not got the impression that I have said that we must protect ourselves from the Balkans. On the contrary, this is about helping to create peace and stability in the Balkans. I guess it's a statement, after all. Denmark is part of the Defence Fund today, but what is under discussion here is the possibility of being part of it. development cooperation is a stronger cooperation in which we can attract Danish industrial interests, because they want to be here because it offers more opportunities to combine and provide research and development opportunities funding to Danish companies, for example, to take the lead in combating cybercrime, cyberattacks against Denmark. It is true that there are plenty of cooperation, but what I think is important to remember now is that what we are dealing with now is a threat to our values, which find many forms, for example in relation to cyber attacks. And there is no need for holes in the defence work, and that is now for Denmark, and that is why we need to be involved in this cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105450	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105455	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense for a very fine speech too. After all, the Minister for Defence sits every day with colleagues from a large number of EU Member States who are also working with defence, and a great many of them are members of NATO, none of whom, apart from us, have reservations about European defence cooperation, and I wonder whether the Minister for Defence can describe how they see NATO and European defence cooperation in relation to each other. Because in the SF we see it as something that complements each other. Europe can do things that NATO cannot always do in our view, for example. a strong focus on humanitarian interventions, building democratic institutions and the long-term perspective. What does the Minister for Defence think that European defence cooperation can complement our NATO missions and our participation in NATO cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105555	As the Prime Minister said a moment ago, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and I attended a meeting in Brussels not long ago when NATO was meeting. There was a subsequent meeting in the EU circle, and there was also a meeting in the G7 circle, and none of the places is considered to be a conflict. On the contrary, the fundamental issue is that both NATO and the European Union complement each other. Why? Because the worst thing that can happen now is that there are holes in our common defenses against Putin. We have seen that he is ready to use almost every means to create instability in the countries bordering on Russia. Ask the Baltic countries, ask what is happening in the Balkans, ask what it is you are nervous about in the former non-members of the European Union and NATO in countries of Eastern and Central Europe. They are nervous, and that is why both NATO and the European Union are united. That is why what has surprised me most is the enormous strength shown by both NATO and the European Union, with troops, with increased budgets, with hugely harsh sanctions, where just yesterday there was a fresh tightening up of sanctions. So the two institutions complement each other and there is no indication whatsoever that this is not the case in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105726	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105729	Thank you, Minister. I have two questions. The first is about what we hear, and it is said that we in Denmark are always outside, even when you are sitting at the table in Brussels. I would like to know if the Minister for Defence could put some words of his own on what it was like to be Minister for Defence and, like, to go outside the door, or what is actually being done when precisely the threats that are security to Europe are being discussed. The second question is which missions the Secretary of Defense would prefer Denmark to take part in. Bosnia has been mentioned sometimes, but are there others where we see that it really has an interest in Denmark and where we are not with us today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105812	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105813	The key thing for Denmark and the consequence of our reservations is that we cannot be involved in the specific missions in this area, and there are quite a lot of examples of this now, unfortunately. There are, for example: NATO-led action against piracy, which is clearly in Danish interest, it can be said. We have one of the world's largest merchant fleets, which is why it is of course crucial for Denmark that we can help fight piracy. This is just one example where NATO has had the task in the past and where it has been transferred to the European Union and how it cannot be included, and that is a little strange indeed. We have thousands of Danish jobs connected to our shipping companies and our shipping industry, and it is natural that Denmark should also participate in this effort. But it is a good example of our inability to do so. In Bosnia it was also a NATO-led operation at first, which is basically about peace and stability, and it is also an expression of what I feel quite convinced that Europe and the European Union, among other things. As a result of the gradual withdrawal of the Americans from Europe in the coming years, more care will have to be taken. We cannot be there today, even though, as the Foreign Minister rightly said, our Nordic neighbours are deeply committed to this and similar efforts. But Denmark can't be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105937	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408105940	Thank you. I understand that the fear that European defence and security work will develop into some kind of common EU army or supranational cooperation is a great deal. So I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that, even if we say yes to abolishing the reservation of defence, and even if the political will someday • what it is not today • should be there to transfer sovereignty to some form of common EU army, then still will require a treaty amendment and a new vote in Denmark, so it is therefore not particularly relevant to discuss that part as part of what we are talking about now, because we simply cannot do so without a new treaty amendment, and so it is a strange subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408110026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408110027	I agree 100% with that and there is nothing in this about an EU army, and it is not government policy that we should have an EU army. We have a Danish defence, we have one defence, and in the Folketing we have a broad consensus on how to get the defense to help in the Baltic, and we get the defense to help elsewhere, which is why it is quite simple. It's fair enough that you can have the discussion, but that's just not what this is about. As I said, we have one defence, a Danish defence, and we decide here in the Danish Parliament where it will contribute and where it will be sent, and this is about the fact that right now there are gaps in the defence work that must be against Putin, and that Denmark cannot contribute to filling those gaps. Basically, what it is all about is that we must stand together against what Putin is now unfolding in Ukraine, the threats he poses and which he is living against, for example, other countries bordering Russia, and we are doing best together, and not by the fact that there are gaps in the defence work that must be against him.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408110134	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the Minister, which means that we will now move on to the debate and the general rules for short remarks. And first of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408110154	Thank you, President. We decide for ourselves, we have a right of veto, it is intergovernmental. It is like the words that go back when we hear our three ministers here today, and it is also some words that somehow have an echo from the past. How often have we heard in EU debates about how much we can change and how much we can decide if we just sit around the table? How much have we heard changing EU parties talk down EU cooperation, that is to say that the euro is merely a matter of exchange cooperation, so that it will be cheaper when you travel, and that, moreover, it will provide lower interest rates and a better economy, or in the field of justice policy, that Denmark, if we stick to the legal reservation, will become a plain country for paedophiles, for criminals, for terrorists? I believe that most people who look back at the last two times, when the EU parties have tried to challenge our reservations, will have the feeling that it was probably very good that we voted 'no', and I believe that most people will have it on 2 June or the time afterwards if they choose to follow our recommendation. Too much of what we are hearing today, we have at best no guarantee of success. There is talk of unanimity being required, and that is also true if you read the specific chapter of the Treaty that I have before me, namely the second section, Articles 42 to 46. But we could also read Article 31, where there is a specific reference to the procedures of both security and defence policy, and here we are not talking about the right of veto. Here it is very clear that the Council will act by a qualified majority, (1) when adopting decisions establishing a Union action or position on the basis of a decision taken by the European Council, (2) when adopting a decision establishing a Union action or position on a proposal from the High Representative of the Union, etc. So it is not true that all decisions in the area of security and defence policy in the European Union are unanimous. There is a series of provisions in the EU Treaty Title on foreign policy, which is with majority voting, and where therefore, if we do not have our reservations, Denmark can be voted down. Then the Minister for Defence says slightly polemically on the question from the rapporteur of the Left that if something is to be changed in the Treaty that we have today, then, by its very nature, it requires a change in the Treaty. In fact, I think most people would say that is the secondary question. The key question when changing the EU Treaty is: are we being asked? And, as you know, the Treaty that I have here, the Treaty of Lisbon, was voted through by the Danish Parliament here without any difficulty at all in asking the Danes, bearing in mind that in a number of areas I think it is 19 areas where the right of veto was removed and ordinary majority decisions were introduced, where Denmark is now being voted down, including in the field of foreign policy, also in the intergovernmental field. That is why you have to be careful what you hear today and not just focus on the same articles that the EU parties would so much like to relax Denmark into. But you have to remember what the European Union is like. If the EU's basic principle is to strive for an ever closer union between European countries and peoples, one could imagine, just as it has meant something for the euro, for legal policy, for social policy, for wage policy, for all aspects of EU cooperation, that it might also mean something in the future for defence policy, and that, when it comes down to Article 42 (1) of the Treaty on European Union, it might also mean something in the future. 2, which the EU parties want Denmark to join, writes that the goal is that it should lead to a common defence, so is not the last step, but the first step? If you just have a feeling that this is probably where we are, then I would say that the wise thing is to vote no. Because if there is one thing we know, it is that if a reservation has first been settled, then the power has first been given to the European Union, then we will not be asked again. But I can promise the Danes that we will stick to our reservations, the EU parties will come again and again, because they will never stop it. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I shall make the following proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament warns against the EU Treaty's promise of progressive formulation of a common EU defence policy and opposes Danish participation in it. Parliament recalls that EU treaties have been amended in the past, where the right of veto has been abolished and majority decisions introduced without the Danish people being consulted. Therefore, the government is required to ensure the retention of the Danish reservation in relation to any action that might realise the shape of the common EU defence which the Treaty today announces. V 65). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408110731	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's from sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408110743	Thank you. After all, Denmark and Europe are in a very serious security policy situation, and the guarantor of our security is, of course, first and foremost NATO and transatlantic, but both NATO and the United States have asked us in the European Union to be better able to take care of our own security in our neighbourhood. And one of the few bright points in this very serious time is, in fact, the unity of the West, the unity of the European Union. Putin tried to split us up, but we've actually moved together. I would like to ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, what a signal he thinks it sends in a situation where our strongest weapon has been unity, that he is spending his primary speaking time criticizing our allies in Europe and the cooperation, and what a signal Mr. Morten Messerschmidt thinks it sends out that we, as the only NATO member country in the European Union, are outside what the others regard as an essential part of our common defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408110841	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt made a proposal for adoption earlier, and this is, of course, part of the further debate. That's what I'm talking about. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408110849	Thank you, President. I really believe that Putin will be thrilled if the EU develops its own defence enthusiastically, because it will, of course, lead to a distancing of both the British, the Americans and the Canadians and so on. I do not think it is too much to say that Putin has been good at playing Europe and the European Union. After all, it is to a large extent the European Union's energy policy that has led to our becoming so vulnerable to Russian gas and now helping to finance the monstrous war machine that Putin represents and which is pouring into Ukraine. If we now also fall into the ditch where we will then build an EU defence, which must inevitably be in opposition to what is today, namely NATO defence, then Putin will be enthusiastic. What you should do, sir. Jens Joel and that, as Mr. Jens Joel's party and Prime Minister should take the lead in convening an Intergovernmental Conference which will make the six non-NATO member countries of the European Union members of NATO, and which will then create the European dimension within NATO, which will be able to meet the desire of the Americans and which I fully share, namely that we in Europe, including the UK, Iceland, also Norway, must do more to defend ourselves. But this is not done by EU generals, EU lieutenants and EU army. This is done by the transatlantic alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111017	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111022	Well, there wasn't much answer to the question. On the other hand, there is a great deal of discussion about something you believe. And there I have to say that we did not believe, two months ago, that there could or would be war in Europe either. Putin is responsible for this, and we can't trust him. Yet it is as if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes that the only ones we cannot trust are our European allies. We cannot count on those with whom we stand in the West; we cannot count on that when we say, both from NATO and from the European Union, that the two things are connected. - Sir... Morten Messerschmidt doesn't hear that this is the wrong enemy he's messing with?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111102	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111105	We are at war with Putin's Russia; there is no doubt about that at all. It may well be that the war is going on right now in Ukraine, but everything that we regard as obvious is what Putin denies. That is why we are at war, even though we may not be in the real sense. Therefore, the big question is what makes it possible for us in Denmark to influence Putin. What is it that makes it possible for us to discourage him in the future? Is it that, within the European Union, we are beginning to create a new European defence system with all the certainty that we have about how the European Union works? Or is it not rather that we say within NATO: now NATO should not just be the largest and most fearsome military alliance in the world, it should be even bigger and even more fearsome, and it should be even more powerful? I'm not the one who's splitting up, sir. Jens Joel, this is sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111157	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111207	Sir. After all, Morten Messerschmidt has already started to talk a lot about the possible future EU army, which should somehow be a product of whether we vote yes or no to abolishing the defence reserve. I'd like to have Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt to confirm that the Constitution has a section 20 pcs. 2 and that this paragraph provides that if we give up sovereignty in Denmark and there are no more than 150 seats in the Folketing which support it and do not want to hold a referendum, then we shall have to hold a referendum if we are asked to join an EU army and want to join an EU army, and then the voters in Denmark will then be asked and can always vote no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111302	I'm afraid I can't confirm that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. What is stated in section 20 of the Constitution. 2 is that the powers of the authorities of the Kingdom may be transferred by law and, to a certain extent, to international cooperation. That means that these are powers, not sovereignty. I think most people will agree that it is a surrender of sovereignty if you go from veto to majority voting. The fact that we can no longer say 'no', and the fact that we can no longer block, is a surrender of sovereignty, but unfortunately it is not a surrender of powers. The Supreme Court has already decided on this in 1998 in the so-called Maastricht decision. I'll send that back to Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen later.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111336	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111340	Juristi is sir. Morten Messerschmidt's specialty, and often experts cannot recognize the reality of it, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt says, and that will not be the case here either. Of course, Denmark will have to go through a process of surrender of sovereignty, and if there are no more than 150 mandates to do so without a referendum, a referendum will be held in that situation. And, of course, that will also happen, just as it has happened so many times before, and just as it happens now, when we are talking about a defence reserve which does not involve the surrender of sovereignty. So it is pure rhetoric and manipulation that comes from Mr. Morten Messers Regering again, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111417	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111421	I would very much welcome it if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen will use Easter to perhaps find an expert who then disagrees with me on the following. Even now, in the context of intergovernmental cooperation in the Treaty on European Union, there is the first of the two Treaties, the Treaty of Lisbon and qualified majority voting. I mentioned Paragraph 31. 2, before, and I could also mention several other paragraphs 7 and 7. § 1, § 7, para. 3 etc. the right to vote may be withdrawn from the Member States, but where qualified majority voting is used. The transition from unanimity to qualified majority voting in Danish constitutional law, Paragraph 20 of the Constitution, has not been to be regarded as a transfer of powers and therefore § 20 is not activated. But if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen can find an expert who disagrees with me on that, I will of course go canossagang from here until 1 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111504	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111509	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. After all, the rapporteur is using the opportunity to sow doubts: do we lose our sovereignty, and what happens then? It is true that there is a qualified majority in several areas of security and defence policy in the CFSP, but in the defence field, where I also heard the rapporteur say earlier that the passarelle provision can be used to change it, we can understand that it cannot be done. Will it not, precisely in the field of defence, require a new Intergovernmental Conference?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111547	It is not possible to use the provisions of the Passsarelle clause in the defence field, which are specifically based on it. What you can do, on the other hand, is that you can change the Treaty. You're one of them. in the Treaty of Lisbon several times, I think it has gone from the right of veto to qualified majority voting in 19 areas, and what is central is whether the Danes have then been asked there. I do not know whether Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll remembers what her party's position was back in the Treaty of Lisbon. I remember it quite clearly, because I was the rapporteur on the matter then, and there was the position of the Conservative People's Party against ours in the Danish People's Party, that one should not ask the Danes. So what on earth would prevent the Conservative People's Party and your EU-happy friends from doing it again?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111627	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111630	Thank you. Now defence is something very special, it is a country's sovereign way of protecting itself, and here we believe that it is best to do so in cooperation. But I would like to ask the rapporteur once again: if it requires a genuine Treaty amendment, it will not require an Intergovernmental Conference and also, as Mr von der Vring has said, an Intergovernmental Conference. Ole Birk Olesen said before, a majority of five sixths in the Folketing before it could be changed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111701	Yes, the most common thing is to convene an Intergovernmental Conference when the Treaties are amended. No, unfortunately, you only hold a referendum, or you have had a tradition of doing so only when it comes to the transfer of powers. This was, of course, the case in 1972 when the Treaty of Rome was ratified; it was 1992; it was in 1993 and 1998. However, neither in 2001 nor in 2009 when the Treaties were amended by the Treaty of Nice and Lisbon respectively, there was a transfer of powers. On the other hand, in 1986 an indicative referendum was held under Article 19 of the Constitution, but there was no transfer of powers. This is the history of Danish EU constitutional law, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111734	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111739	Thank you. There is equal to the European Defence Fund. Will Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt does not recognise that Denmark will have much greater influence on what the European Defence Fund should prioritise if we become part of European security and defence policy cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111803	I really hope so, because what we often hear from the Left and the Social Democrats is that if we just say yes to joining, we will have an influence. Now the rapporteur has the opportunity to ask one more question and perhaps on that occasion he could just mention the three recent cases where Denmark has had a decisive influence on EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111821	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111825	I would rather spend my time following up on my first question, because that is what we are talking about today. Following on from the fact that I consider it to be a recognition that Denmark will, of course, have a greater influence on what the European Defence Fund should prioritise, I would therefore ask whether Mr. Morten Messerschmidt then will not also acknowledge that it matters for the Danish defence opportunities to benefit from the European Defence Fund and the Danish defence companies' ability to become part of projects, that priority is given to some projects that are actually in the areas in which they have expertise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111853	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111857	Well, I can't rule that out. I just don't think that's what matters. The important thing must be to ask: have we, in all too many areas where we have delegated powers to the European Union, because we have followed the rapporteur's party and said that we would like to have the influence promised by the rapporteur's party? So, is it the case that Denmark is dreaming in the EU because we are sitting at the table? Unfortunately, we only have these three or four reservations, depending on how we look at the summer house rule. In all the other areas Denmark is involved. I have the most memory that ministers come home with red ears or perhaps almost yellow and blue because they have been beaten up in the European Union. Then we lost on the minimum wage directive, then we lost on the maternity rules, then we lost on the foreign affairs area. That is why I believe that the burden of proof lies with the Left and the other EU parties. So, where are the examples of Denmark having so much influence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111942	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408111952	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm actually a little puzzled by the fact that sir... Morten Messerschmidt cannot see the sense of a European defence cooperation. After all, it is about protecting Europe, our common values and our borders. That is what we in the SF think makes sense, and I also had the expectation that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt would think so. In the SF we had reservations at the time, but we also reserve the right to become wiser. The ghost of an EU army, like Mr. Morten Messerschmidt conjures up in this debate, it's just a ghost. We were also afraid of an EU army over which we had no control, but after 30 years that is not the case. There is no EU army. The Western European Union is stone-dead to put it plainly, and we are now in a European security situation where we need to move closer together to take care of what we share. Why can't sir? Morten Messerschmidt does not see the sense of it, and why is there a need to dwell on ghosts that are not real today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112057	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112103	First of all, whoever is honored should be honored. I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for standing before the reservations. As a teenager, I actually had a poster hanging in my room with Holger and the wife who said no to the union. It was really something that filled something in my childhood home. Perhaps that is why I have been more impressed than it has on the rapporteur. Yes, we must guard Europe's borders. So do we. Denmark contributes to Frontex, contributes to protection in the Mediterranean Sea. So is an EU army a mirage or a ghost? Well, at best one has to say that we don't really know that. What we know is that in section 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 is replaced by paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 paragraph 42 Can you have it without a defense? Can you have a defense without an army? Is it because it has to be airborne and at sea alone or what? I don't know. However, it has to be said that there is nothing in the EU system to suggest that, when such an objective is set, things should not go in the direction I foresee. In fact, in the European Union, the dead can be resurrected. Now we're close to Easter, so the ghosts can come to life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112209	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112214	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt's specialty is law, but sometimes lawyers can also stare blindly at the paragraphs. As I read the Treaty, we do not have the opportunity to create an EU army over which we have no control. What we can do is that we can make missions and pool our capabilities, and we can only do that in unanimity. We have to agree. On the other hand, if we sit at the table, Denmark can veto it. It is a form of influence which, as I hear Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, too, would make good sense from the rapporteur's point of view. Why does it not make sense for Denmark to be able to veto and, at the same time, to have a positive influence on the decisions that make sense in a new Europe with a new security?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112258	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112302	Now I do not know whether the rapporteur has the Treaty ahead of him, but here I have Chapter 2 on specific provisions on the common foreign and security policy. Then we'll look up Article 31. 1: Decisions pursuant to this Chapter shall be adopted by the European Council and the Council, acting unanimously, which shall be the right of the rapporteur, but shall be adopted without prejudice to the provisions of this Chapter. And then Article 31 (1). 2: Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of this Article: The Council shall act by a qualified And then come the three subheadings that I mentioned in my speech. So it may well be that Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen does not like law, but she should still deal with it a little bit before she recommends the Danes to buy the cat in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112342	Thank you. And there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. So we are now starting with the Social Democrat rapporteur. Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112400	Thank you for that, President. I have been looking forward very much to this debate, although it comes from a dull background. There is a situation in Europe before 24 February and a situation after that. And from our point of view, in the Social Democratic Party, there is no doubt that Denmark should become fully involved in the EU's defence cooperation in the future. A defence reserve may have made sense at some point, but it is simply not sustainable at a time of war on European soil. I actually think there are many people in my own generation who had written it off as something we heard about in the history books. I remember when I was a child that people discussed and feared nuclear war. You saw paddehat clouds and thought when you had to cross the border and drive down Europe with border fences, guards and walls... that it was a cold time, an uncertain time, a terrible time we lived in. And I remember the joy that the Berlin Wall fell and that we actually got more people into the democratic community. And I understand that one might have fallen into the belief that it could not go backwards; we could not get into a situation where we would again see war in Europe. I can hear that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and other opponents say that if you're not quite sure where this ends, you'll wear what we know. Then you'll have to hold on to what we know we have. But the truth is, we don't know what we have. Two months ago, there was no one in this house who thought that we would have a full-scale war of brutality and to an extent that we have not seen since World War II and that is completely insane. So the thing about sitting back and saying that we know what we have doesn't work out. No, the truth is we don't know what we have. On the other hand, we know that when there is no certainty about what meets us, it is wise to stand together. The best answer in an uncertain time is unity. The best answer in a difficult time is to find it together. And that is why we must respond to war, conflict and division by strengthening and expanding our alliances in the West, in Europe, in NATO. And I know that this is actually the only small point of light I can see in this war, namely that we have managed so far. I think it's often the case that it's in the darkest times when it gets most brutal when it hurts most that you can know yourself as a human being, as a community, as a community, as a country. And I have no doubt that Denmark is not just going to and will benefit from contributing to the common defence of our values. In fact, I believe that we also have a duty to do so. Because we cannot just sit back and think: the others take care of that; that is not our problem; we would like to have a reservation; we would like to take a look at it a little bit. This is where it matters. And, of course, Denmark must be involved. On behalf of a number of parties, S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA and KD, I would like to read out a text for adoption. The proposal reads: Proposals for adoption • European security is under threat. We must be prepared for the new situation together with our allies in NATO and the European Union. The Danish Parliament agrees that the fundamental changes to the security policy situation in Europe and a new normal image make new demands on Denmark's wholehearted commitment to the development of European defence and security policy. Time calls for a gear shift. The Danish Parliament therefore recommends that Denmark abolish the Danish defence reserve and participate in the European cooperation on security and defence. In this context, the Danish Parliament wants Denmark to participate in the European Defence Agency as well as the EU's cooperation on the development of new defence capabilities • Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO) • which has gradually developed since its launch in 2017 and which today has the participation of all EU countries except Denmark and Malta. • V 66).
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112900	Thank you. This proposal for adoption, like the first one, forms part of the further debate. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408112911	Thank you, President. Sir. Jens Joel did a great deal to say we have to stand together. The argument is not that we do not know what is coming, but that we know that we must stand together and that sounds right. Well, at best, you have to say that Mr. Jens Joel's argument is, trust us, it's not going so wrong. It is said that it will not be as I say and as Mrs Pernille Vermund says and as Mr. Søren Søndergaard fears. That's why I'd like to ask Mr. Jens Joel to make us a promise. If majority voting were to take place, there would be an EU army, a genuine EU defence, Mr. Jens Joel saw on behalf of his party and best of all the circle of them, on whose behalf he read the text of the adoption, guarantee that the Danes will be asked again and then we will have a new referendum? Because if the prerequisites for that, sir... Jens Joel and his friends say today is that there will be no majority voting and that there will be no EU army, no EU defence, and if these are the conditions on which the Danes are going to vote, can he guarantee that, if that happens, we will have a new vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113023	In fact, we have been through this sometimes today, and yes, that would be a completely new situation. I think what is interesting here is that Mr. Morten Messers Regering and it actually happens every time we discuss this... would like to discuss guarantees for something that might happen in 20 or 30 years. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt said that I said: Trust us, it's not going to go so wrong. Actually, that's not what I said. In fact, I almost said the opposite, namely that this can go completely wrong and that we do not know what is coming. That's really what it is. I understand that sir. Morten Messerschmidt thinks it is nicer to stand in his warm room and talk about hypothetical scenarios where he would like some politicians to put their hands on the hot plate. This is beyond our control. The war that is going on right now in Ukraine did not count on any of us. We may have feared it, but we didn't think it could happen. That's why it's a little weird that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt would like guarantees against something that we obviously do not decide. What we are saying is that we will probably be stronger, no matter what happens to us, even if it can actually both be serious and do a lot of harm if we stand together. That is what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113137	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113140	I'm not asking, sir. Jens Joel to protect the world from or offer guarantees against future wars with Putin or other crazy people. I'm just asking, sir. Jens Joel to guarantee what he says today. That is also what the Danes can trust. Well, when I do, it's because Mr. Simpson... Jens Joel and his party have a history. The Danes were recommended to join the euro; today the euro is something radical other than what it was then. The Danes were recommended to get rid of the reservation, otherwise Denmark would become a slaraff for all the monstrous types of the world; that was not the case. That is why it is not quite unreasonable to ask Mr. Jens Joel: If the things he says today are not going to happen within the EU defence policy, can he guarantee the Danes a vote again?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113221	Thank you! ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113225	However, I also said in my speech that it may well be that it made sense at some point, and I recognise that you have had it in a different way. Nor was it our view two months ago that we should get rid of the defence reserve, but we are in a different situation. That ghost, like Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt talks about being a ghost who hasn't come in 30 years. We have had a reservation from before Mr. Morten Messerschmidt had the right to vote. I did not have the right to vote, not even the Prime Minister had the right to vote at that time. For such a long time, the European Union has been working together in this area without it having developed into it, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt fears. Then I think it's a little strict that you keep the ghost alive for the sake of... thank you).
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113308	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113313	I just have to say that I find it difficult to argue that everything has changed because we have now experienced Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Maybe it's a generational issue, because I saw it and discussed it in this house... the war in Yugoslavia. There were 150,000 people who were killed • 150,000 people who were killed! So that means that the situation we have had with wars we have also seen it in Georgia, Abkhazia, Chechnya and elsewhere has been there. That is why we have to ask: how does this relate to the defence reserve? That is the discussion we are having today, not all sorts of other discussions, but the discussion on how this is linked to the defence reserve. There it is. I beg you, sir. Jens Joel more specifically to answer: what is it that a lifting of the defence reserve can do that will enable us to avoid such situations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113422	Of course, I recognize Mr. Søren Søndergaard's long experience. I would say that if you have seen what happened in the Balkans, it is all the more impressive that Enhedslisten's policy to withdraw from NATO has survived so many years. NATO was instrumental in stopping the atrocities that took place in the Balkans. What we are discussing today is the European Union's cooperation on security and defence as a complement to the NATO cooperation we have. After all, the position of the Enhedslisten is that we should resign from NATO, that we should not be involved in the EU's cooperation on defence, and that we should not, moreover, strengthen Danish defence. It would put us in a boring place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113507	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113511	Well, I understand that, sir. Jens Joel means, and that's sir. Jens Joel's right to mean it. That's just not what we're discussing today. So, what we are discussing today is defence reserve, and that is why I think it is very reasonable to come as, I would almost say, a thief at night at very short notice and to report a referendum, to justify how it would be a solution to the problem that is the reason for taking the vote. That's why I asked Mr. Jens Joel: Jens Joel not be a little more specific about how the concrete proposals in relation to EU cooperation can remedy the situation that is the reason why you want the referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113555	The war that is going on in Ukraine right now hits Ukrainians, and it also hits European countries that receive refugees. First of all, it affects the Ukrainians who are killed or driven on the run, but that war is not just about Ukraine. We also know that Putin is active in the Balkans, we know that Putin is active in many places to destabilise the world, for example in the Balkans. I believe or fear that there may be a need for us, on the part of the European Union, to be able to help ensure stability, that we can help, that we can help to guarantee that we do not get a repeat of that, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard and the rest of us experienced. We do not know, and that is why we are now debating whether we should join the cooperation that we believe will be able to deal with the uncertainty we face or whether we should stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113650	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113652	Something doesn't add up at all. On the one hand, the rapporteur says that we should not have an EU army; an EU army is a ghost. On the other hand, the rapporteur says that in future it may not be NATO forces that should stand and protect the Balkans from Putin and the Russians, it may be the European Union. I have to ask, with what? With what, then, will the EU protect if it is not an EU army? Well, maybe it's like sir. Morten Messerschmidt said earlier that it is thought that an EU defence alone should be about Navy and Air Force, that the armies should not be included. Is that why people deny that there can be an EU army? Or what is it specifically that we want the European Union to put in place instead of NATO or in addition to NATO, if it is not an EU army?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113746	There is no NATO army either. NATO consists of countries which together defend values territorially etc. It has worked very well in this way. After all, we imagine, and that is what is black and white, that if the European Union wants it, if there is a need, if it actually arises, if God bans the situation in the Balkans that requires it, it will be up to the developing countries to report in whether they want to be with what they want to be with. And my opinion is that if that kind of thing occurs, if that uncertainty • war, invasion, ethnic cleansing, whatever it may be • occurs in our vicinity, then we have a responsibility. And I think it's a strange kind of bourgeois ethics to say that somebody else has to take care of that. In fact, I thought it was in favour of us also taking up our part of that task, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113843	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113845	We have to do that part of our job. That's also why we have to go up to the 2%. of our bnp to NATO and to our defenses... as we promised in 2014... not in 2033, but preferably before. But I still think the rapporteur owes an answer to what it is. We already find it difficult to put forward with the NATO personnel. Are we going to take Danish men and women, Danish soldiers, out of the guarantee that is in NATO? Should we unpick them and then say: now they must be part of one, let us call it EU defence? Or how do the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party think this is going to happen? Because if there are people on the front, it must be some form of EU defence if you do not want to call it an EU army.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408113935	I think I agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund that we have been challenged on the defence side. That is also why we have reached a broad political agreement to strengthen our defence. Because we need to be able to do more. It is funny that the 'no' parties in the Danish Parliament assume that there is a conflict between NATO and the European Union in the area of defence and security policy, while those who are members of both places are very concerned that there are no contradictions and do not want there to be contradictions and that there are NATO members such as NATO. The United States, which is after all asking Europe to undertake a greater task. So there is no contradiction, as one would like to put it. It is a cooperation and a division of labour and important that we strengthen both.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114019	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114025	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservative People's Party is also very pleased that not only Germany has moved forward, but also the Social Democrats have moved forward. It's good to see that we can remove the defence reserve. However, in relation to the discussion now taking place, can the rapporteur confirm that in order for NATO to be activated, there must be an intervention so that Article 5 is activated? NATO does not have the preventive effect, for example. to go out and prevent conflicts by deploying NATO troops into Somalia, Libya or Bosnia. So the EU's readiness, forces and efforts are very preventive and stabilising, as they are doing now in Bosnia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114116	I think that is right and I think that the SF's rapporteur also said this before the fact that there are different things we can do. And it is also true that the musket nest in NATO will be activated at the time we are attacked. NATO is also a territorial defence. I do not think I agree with the rapporteur that there is no deterrent in NATO. I think there is, too. I think you have to hold on to that, too. The fact that we are united is also a deterrent, and I think that is quite important, not least in the situation we are in now, when Putin shows that it is one of the only things he respects.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114152	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114155	NATO clearly has a deterrent effect; I fully agree. That is the only language that Putin understands, and that is also why we are actively out there, for example. the Baltic countries and their supporters. Now I am also thinking of going out to third countries that are not Member States, precisely where the European Union has its complementarity with NATO and is more actively involved. It was more an exception that NATO entered Afghanistan, but there was also an armed conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114225	Well, that's right. There's a difference. It is also clear that military cooperation in the European Union is, after all, cooperation outside the European Union. We are not on the border-military; we are working together, for example, to protect in relation to the flows of refugees, it could be from the Mediterranean, it could be in relation to the Balkans, it could be in different parts of our neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114249	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114257	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jens Joel for the speech. Sir. Jens Joel emphasizes that on 24 February the entire global security situation changed. And that is also true in itself. Or at least, it was a development that had been going on over a long period of time, but which was quite clearly illustrated on 24 February. It has then been noted that two immediate responses from the Social Democrats and the parties behind the national compromise have resulted, namely that military expenditure is increased and that at the same time it is recommended that we abolish the defence reserve. I just want to hear what it is specifically about the situation on 24 February, which means that abolishing the defence reserve is a solution. For me, as Mr. Jens Joel himself also points out here in the end that the primary focus of the military dimension in the European Union is, after all, to have protected interests outside Europe, that is, primarily in Africa, and it is also partly a question of controlling the refugee situation from North Africa. So what is it specifically in relation to the effort that should basically have been changed with Russia's invasion of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114406	I do not think it can be said that it is true in itself that the situation has changed. I believe, fundamentally, that there is a different situation now. I think it calls for all of us to consider how to deal with the uncertain situation. There may be different answers. I recognize that, of course. And I also hear that the Enhedslisten insists that we really want to get out of NATO. I respect it, if that's what you think is the answer to it. My answer will be that we must strengthen the cooperation we have on what we could call democracy, freedom, peace, security in what has been the West in general. It is primarily in NATO and in the European Union that the two cooperation takes place. It can therefore be said that the very concrete answer from us and from a number of other parties in the Folketing was to say that we must live up to our NATO contribution, we must strengthen our defence and we must fully join the cooperation that is taking place, not only in NATO but also in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114517	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114520	But I fully agree that the situation has fundamentally changed and that it therefore also calls for an analysis. That is also why I have a question. If the Social Democrats and the parties behind the national compromise come to a conclusion so quickly on that analysis, which are two things that need to be done, then it is very nice to know, not just that we are doing something, but also why we are doing something. Because I fully agree that we need to analyse the situation and that it is going to give us some new challenges. But what exactly is the answer? What is the reason why the answer is that we must abolish the defence reserve? Because I don't see the immediate answer. I think the rapporteur has been asked the question many times, but I have still not heard the answer to why it is the solution to abolishing the defence reserve in relation to the situation that has arisen with Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114611	Well, the simplest answer is that it will not only be for the benefit of Denmark, but that I also believe that we actually have an obligation to participate in the defence of what we believe in, along with those who are our allies. It is not the case that there are free tickets, especially in a world as violent as the one we are experiencing right now. I know it has been at all times and in many different places on the globe, but there is no free ticket. So you can't sit around and say that the others have to deal with that for us. We can't keep lurking about it. That is why we say that the strong cooperation we have must be fully involved. It is NATO first and foremost. It is also the European Union. And I really hope that the Enhedslisten's analysis of this will also lead to it being said that the coming out of NATO is no longer the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114658	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408114713	Thank you for the floor. Denmark is a small country with a small population. Therefore, we will always be dependent on alliances, cooperation and a rule-based international legal order if our security is to be guaranteed. It is simply impossible for us to stand for our own defenses. If that fact was not clear to anyone before Putin's unprovoked attack on Ukraine, then today it must be clear to everyone who is not both in front of their eyes and in front of their ears. We in the Left have been fighting for many years to become part of European cooperation in the field of security and defence. That is why the attack in Ukraine has not been decisive in our support for abolishing the reservation, but the situation in Ukraine has made it even clearer why it is vital that we stand together and cooperate as much as possible on all aspects of defence and security policy in the Western world. Why was Ukraine attacked instead of, for example, the far smaller countries of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania? It became Ukraine primarily because Ukraine was not part of NATO. However, Ukraine would also have been stronger if it had been part of the European Union and a full participant in European cooperation in the field of defence and security policy. In our view, it does not make sense as a small country to be outside one of the cooperation that we have the opportunity to participate in. On the contrary, we should send a clear signal to our allies that we are fully involved and that we are standing with them in this time of crisis. NATO is and remains our most important insurance and defence and security cooperation, but in the years to come, European cooperation in the field of security and defence will become increasingly important, and it simply does not make sense to have a reservation which blocks our ability to participate in those parts of this cooperation which are considered to strengthen our security in the future, and then it is even a cooperation that does not overlap but complements each other. In fact, a number of countries that are not members of the European Union, such as the United States, have. Norway and Switzerland, better opportunity to benefit from the benefits of participating in European cooperation in the field of security and defence than we, which they have chosen to exploit. Because cooperation is not only reserved for EU countries, which is a misunderstanding which has also been repeated in the debate on the name of the vote in recent days. Even the United States and Canada are in fact, unlike us, part of some of the initiatives. The reason why non-EU countries such as Norway, Switzerland and the United States and Canada have chosen to join parts of European security and defence cooperation is simply that there are tasks that are crucial to our security, which NATO cannot or will not solve because of its structure and mandate. This applies, among other things, to: military crisis management operations in the immediate vicinity of the European Union, which can be of great importance in avoiding chaos, distress and refugee flows towards Europe in the future. We have no doubt for a moment that our skilled Danish soldiers will influence such operations in a positive direction. This also applies to strengthening cooperation in Europe in the development of our defence equipment, the strengthening of technology and defence research, and the creation of a competitive European defence equipment market. This cooperation and a full Danish participation in it will strengthen NATO and our security, and it will be a tragedy for our skilled and responsible Danish defence industry if we cannot participate in this cooperation. By becoming part of the cooperation, Denmark will, among other things, be part of the cooperation. have a greater impact on the priorities of the European Defence Fund. This will give the defence and the Danish defence industry better access to new technology and new development activities, and it can give the defence a better access to new defence equipment. Why, then, should we say no to that? I would also like to emphasise that European security cooperation will be crucial for the cyber area in the future. Here, too, Denmark is too small to be outside the cooperation with the other EU countries and other like-minded countries to develop our capabilities. That is why maintaining the reservation will put us in a more difficult situation for security policy in an area that will be crucial for all societies in the future. We think this is a very, very bad idea. Finally, I would like to mention that reservations are increasingly a bureaucratic burden and very, very Kafkask, because in a modern integrated world it is very difficult to define where the line is between defence and not defence. Let us now remove the reservation so that we can focus instead on whether concrete cooperation makes sense for Denmark and for the EU's security policy or not. It is about strengthening Denmark's defence and uniting in the West. I hope that we will have a very good debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115143	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's for mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115151	Thank you. After all, the left is a large party, not only in Denmark, but also internationally. I had the privilege of sitting with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the European Parliament for a number of years, when it was sometimes a colourful experience to experience the Left's group, not least the leader of the group Guy Verhofstadt, whom one can say a lot about, but one cannot take away from him that he is a visionary man. And in one of the speeches I heard quite recently, he talks directly about how a national defence is evil, simply because it is ineffective, and therefore one should not have such a thing. And it's not like that, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson thinks, but who does Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson has the most influence in the EU system • Left in Denmark or Left in the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115245	When it comes to intergovernmental cooperation, as it will be in the field of defence, it is clearly the Left in Denmark, the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament that have the influence, and not Guy Verhofstadt. I also know that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has been part of a group where there are some who think something he does not always agree with. And, of course, this is also the case in the group of which the Left is part of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115300	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115303	Yes, but I think the significant difference between the group I was sitting in the European Parliament and the one that the Left is sitting in the European Parliament is that it really was rare for us to have significant influence. Because we were a minority, whereas the Left Group, whatever it was, the old ALDE group, or whatever it is called "Renew," I think, which also unites Radical Left's influence. So let me ask you this: does Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson that the views expressed by the Left Group leader Guy Verhofstadt in the European Parliament are peculiar to the European Parliament, or is that a more widespread view?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115344	Now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is probably the European Parliament better than I am. I know that this is not a widely held view among our elected Members of the European Parliament. And since it is an intergovernmental cooperation, I think it is also more important what the Folketing and the Danish Government think about this issue than Guy Verhofstadt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115358	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115405	Thank you. I really like it when politicians are honest and stand by what they mean. And in this election campaign, if you can call it that, the campaign that will be launched on 1 June, the Left has a very honest and pure view, which has always been the view of the Left, contrary to the view of the Social Democrats, which has moved a little back and forth. In the light of the many wars that have taken place on the continent of Europe since the Second World War, we must also say that it seems very convenient that it is now precisely the latest that is the reason why we believe that the EU's defence reserve should be removed. But the Left has wanted this for a long time, just as the Left wants to remove the other reservations. Isn't that right? And is it not true that the Left's aim is that we should be a full and complete member of the European Union without any reservations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115457	Yes, it is. So, we would say that in the present situation it is quite clear and we have also withdrawn the defence clause, which we consider to be the main problem. It is not the case that Denmark will end tomorrow if we do not abolish it, but over time it will become an increasing problem for us if we are not involved in this cooperation, because it will fill more. Security policy will become more complex and therefore it will be a bigger and bigger problem for us to be outside this cooperation. So we think it is very, very good that more parties have now come on board and share our analysis. And I also understand that the situation in Ukraine has caused people to change their calculations. I think we also agree that we think it has become even more serious and important that we get started with close cooperation, for example. in the field of defence or cyber, at European level and with our partner countries, which can, of course, participate in European cooperation. That is why I think it is actually appropriate to call it European cooperation, because countries such as Norway, the United States and Canada have the opportunity to participate, which they do not have in other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115558	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115602	The fact that it is very important now to abolish the defence reserve sounds a bit like what we heard when we were voting on the euro. Fortunately, the Danes were wise enough to vote no. But what you got your ears full of was that if we didn't vote yes, it would go completely wrong. When we had to vote in 2015 on the possible abolition of the legal reservation, we got the same song. It would go completely wrong if we voted no. Thank God the Danes did. It didn't go wrong. Is there a little reflection in the rapporteur's party, the Left, on how people are quite often out of sync in these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115645	Now I haven't been part of those campaigns. In other words, we are not saying that Denmark will be taken over by Russia tomorrow if we do not abolish the reservation. I and we just find it very difficult to see the reasons for maintaining it. That is also why the United States does not have a defence reserve for European cooperation. That's also why Canada doesn't have it. That's also why Norway doesn't have it. It is because there are areas where it just makes good sense that we cooperate more, especially for us as a small country, where it is very, very difficult to build up the expertise and competences that we can have if we cooperate with our European allies on this. And that's, for example. We are also being kept out of the cooperation that Norway and the United States are participating in. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115717	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115720	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Christoffer Aagaard Melson confirms what is also true that since 19 May 1993 the Left has been against the reservation of defence. And that is why it is certainly not possible to accuse the Left of blowing any winds, for whether or not the leader in Russia has been called Yeltsin No, not Gorbachev, because he had probably resigned at that time or has been called Putin, one has been against that reservation of defence. But I would like to ask something else: why is the Left actually against an EU army?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115805	We are because we think that the way we have structured it in NATO also makes very good sense. In other words, the fact that each country is contributing in the various areas with what you bring in yourself seems to us to have served as a really, very good model. Where we have always entered into cooperation is where we can solve something better together than we can individually. It is not, of course, the case that at any level we believe that more decision-making power should be centralised than is absolutely necessary, and here, in fact, we believe that over the years it has been shown that the model of maintaining national defence works very well and that joint missions are offered, as is done in NATO. So I guess that's my best guess. After all, we must not move sovereignty to move sovereignty. After all, we only have to move sovereignty when it makes sense and you get added value by doing something together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115901	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115902	My question was why it didn't make sense. If you are out of line and you are talking about what is effective, then Article 42 of the Treaty is probably very reasonable, in other words, where you say that you are working for ever closer integration of defence, and when there is a majority, unanimity, about that, you are going to be turned into a common defence. Wouldn't that be the most effective? Well, I must have some arguments against why it is not effective. After all, the Left has also signed the Treaty of Lisbon, which sets that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408115943	It's not just about efficiency. It is also about the fact that we are nation states in Europe, that we have to defend ourselves and that there are some things that are just the best at national level, and that there is no point in creating supranational cooperation, either for historical or emotional reasons, and we do not think that it is doing so in defence, especially because we have a really, very good precedent for us to be able to create good intergovernmental cooperation in this area. If you had to go to war with it, it should only be because you realized it was totally dysfunctional, but it isn't. It works quite well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120019	Thank you, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120033	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much to the SF rapporteur for swapping places with me so that I can also make some negotiations in the Ministry of Finance. There is a time before and a time after 24 February 2022. If there is one thing I believe to unite all parties in this Parliament, no matter what we think should be voted on on 1 June, it is the horror of what is going on and that it can take place in the 21st century on European soil. The big question is, of course, and that is, on the other hand, what we have for discussion • whether it is something that changes so fundamental in the European security architecture that we will also have to adapt our policy in some crucial areas, including when it comes to the Danish defence reserve in the EU. It is no secret that we in the Radical Left believe that it does and that there was a time before and a time after 24 February 2022. In three areas, we believe that we will rethink the security architecture we have had and all three point towards Denmark not being served with the reservations we have with regard to EU defence cooperation. The first is that we need to strengthen NATO and, in particular, NATO's European leg, including the decision to increase the Danish defence budget, but also the recognition that when Germany takes the historic step that Germany has taken, we have a new European axis on the way, which can only be seen from the first contours, but which, I believe, will be in a triangle between Germany and France and Poland in relation to simply ensuring a greater opportunity to defend ourselves and our territorial integrity in all European countries and non-EU countries. The second, which has changed, is what could be called the need to add to our defence policy with other areas of security policy. It will be difficult to separate defence and security policy in order to also tap into the discussion that Mrs Pernille Vermund started. I mean, in my optics, it is just as crucial to make sure that we are free of fossil fuels in Europe as it is to arm ourselves militarily. Providing the enemy with billions and billions of euros through our imports of oil, coal and gas is just as damaging to our ability to defend itself as not taking the threat seriously and not getting ready to defend itself. That is why the European Union's defence policy, energy policy, economic trade policy, technology policy, development policy, foreign policy and migration policy will have to be considered much more together in the future than we have been used to. We cannot deal with terrorist threats from northern Africa without thinking both development aid and trade policy into relation to those countries so that we can lift them, and of course also, when necessary, military interventions, even if we have had both good and bad experiences with them. The same applies to piracy, migration from the Middle East, etc. etc. It's all about co-thinking. This also requires us to be involved in all areas of security policy in the European Union, including defence. The third major change is that Europe must also be able to move even in our neighbourhood. In the Western Balkans, in the Middle East and in northern Africa, the United States expects us to take greater responsibility ourselves, and rightly so, and it is also in our own interest to take that responsibility on our part. These are our immediate areas, and in all places combined efforts are required. Sometimes it's defence, sometimes it's development aid, and sometimes it's other forms of partnership. Often it's a combination. Unfortunately, it simmers in Bosnia, it simmers in Moldova and Georgia, it simmers in the Sahel northern Africa, and there is a full war in Syria and Yemen. Let us assume that we must be able to deal with it in Europe with or without the United States. I hope that something will stay with the United States, but what is also a new factor is that the United States has made it very clear under Trump, but as such also now the United States cannot and the United States will not take responsibility for Europe's immediate areas anymore. We can weep, or we can not do that, according to temperament and political opinion, but we are now responsible, and that is why we need to back down the efforts and also be able to do it fully in the European context, so that we have all the tools, both when we have to do it ourselves, when we have to do it with NATO, and when we have to do it in pure NATO formation, as we are doing at the moment in relation to the eastern front. For all these reasons, I see nothing more than that we owe Europe, that we owe ourselves and that we owe future generations that Denmark takes its share of responsibility. In the Radical Left, we would find it almost embarrassing if we were not to take that responsibility as the only country in the current situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120554	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. It's first for Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120557	I have no doubt that the Radical Left finds it embarrassing every time Denmark speaks out against the European Union. I also remember that Minister for Economic Affairs Marianne Jelved was crying when we had voted against the euro. So there's nothing new about that. No, there's something I want to ask you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard can say so clearly that there will be no majority decisions, there will be no EU army • all the things that Mrs Pernille Vermund, Mr. Søren Søndergaard and I are saying. That's not gonna happen. But if that happens, sir... Martin Lidegaard promise that the Danes will be asked again? Or is the vote we have here on 1 June, such a one stop shop, in Danish such a one-time performance, so that no matter what happens and which of us in here may be right, we have voted yes and then catch the table no matter how things develop? Or will Mr. Martin Lidegaard guarantees that the Danes will be asked again if what I expect will be right?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120647	I would like to guarantee that if Denmark is going to give up sovereignty in this area, it will of course have to go to a referendum, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120655	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120656	It's interesting, and I just need to be absolutely sure that Mr. Knox... Martin Lidegaard does not mean powers. Well, we're talking about sovereignty. Paragraph 20 of the Constitution speaks of powers. In other words, we can move from unanimity to majority voting without having to hold the 20 vote. But sovereignty is something else. So if you change from veto to majority voting, it is a transfer of sovereignty, even if it is not a transfer of power, and then Mr. Martin Lidegaard promises us a referendum. Then it'll just be after section 19. It doesn't matter. It's not gonna take us apart. But Mr. Martin Lidegaard can promise us a referendum there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120730	That little legal lecture I think is hard for people to follow. What this is all about is if the European Union decides to make a mission anywhere in the world, and if the European Union envisages that Denmark can be forced to do so by majority decision or by anything else, that is, if Denmark can be forced to take part in such a mission without taking a stand on it in this Parliament that is what sovereignty means to me. And I don't have the imagination to imagine that ever happening. That is not what is happening in NATO today. We also have to take a stand on that every time. I think, as the rapporteur of the Left said, that this is a good arrangement. It is exactly the same arrangement that we need in the European Union. We train, so it's an option, but if we're going on a mission, we decide whether we want to go or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120818	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120821	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke about NATO and the EU's energy policy. At that request, I would like to ask two questions. Number 1: When last year we made a proposal to increase our defence budget to 2%. The Liberals voted against this report, as we have promised NATO. Was it a mistake not to seize the opportunity at the time and say: let us get started now with the opportunity that would then have been to have implemented this earlier? Number 2: The Radical Left has, after all, supported an energy policy, including in Denmark, where we are increasingly self-sufficient. Well, we are. Since 2013, we have not been self-sufficient in energy. We did so from 1997 until 2013. We are no longer, and the degree of self-sufficiency is decreasing. The Radical Left has supported this with the energy policy that has been pursued. Is it also a mistake to admit that the first was a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408120925	As I started and ended my speech, there is a time before and after February 24th. I am fully in line with the positions we had before there really was a war in Europe. When reality changes, politics changes for us too. We really think it should do that for new citizens too, so that they might have to reconsider, if it is not also time to take a full part in European defence. As far as self-sufficiency is concerned, the reason why the degree of self-sufficiency has fallen is that we take less out of the North Sea than we usually do. But if you did what we have proposed and what New Citizens have been working against, namely to get far more turbo on renewable energy, then we could become self-sufficient. And I very much hope that when we come to the negotiations after Easter on replacing Russian gas and oil with renewable energy, New Citizens will report, if only from a patriotic perspective, and say that it is now time for us to have our own Danish renewable energy, which is both cheaper, safer and has the huge advantage that it does not contribute to the Russian war machine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121027	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121028	If we understand with renewable energy, among other things. nuclear power, we get it. The second is shown to have such a long prospect that the number of wars on European soil can increase significantly in the meantime. And when the rapporteur says that there is a time before and after, that is quite right. But that does not change the fact that this is far from being the only war on European soil during the period when we have both had a defence reserve and watched, while NATO and the United States have paid our share of the insurance for our freedom and our independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121102	Now I do not quite know what kind of European wars the rapporteur is referring to. But the former Yugoslavian war was a civil war and a little different, one might say. But peace be to it. The thing about a-power being faster is new to me. According to all I know of data, it takes about twice as long to build a power, and it's probably twice as expensive per year. produced kilowatt-time as something else. So if you're hurrying to build new energy, it's renewable energy. It can be built within 5 years on land and within 7-8 years at sea. It's much faster. I do not know of any nuclear power plant in the world that has been built in less than 10 years. But perhaps Mrs Pernille Vermund does.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121140	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121145	Sir. Martin Lidegaard can easily use February 24 as an argument to change his mind about the 2%. Well, I totally acknowledge that. But Mr. Martin Lidegaard cannot, of course, use 24 February as an argument for changing his position on the defence reserve, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard and the Radical Left have been opposed for a long time. So my first question is: can Mr. Martin Lidegaard does not confirm that if the war had not come on 24 February, then would there have been a majority in this Parliament that would have instructed the government to hold a referendum on the defence reserve? The second question I have is the question of what the Radical Left really thinks about an EU army. So, I think that if you are finally going down that road, then there is a lot of rationale in having an EU army. In other words, a great deal of money can be saved; you can even develop it into a territorial defence, etc. What's the reason we shouldn't go down that road?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121251	On the first question, I think I will actually say no. Because even if we had long wanted to get rid of the defence reserve, I would never, by a narrow majority, require a government to go into such a serious matter which has such great implications for Denmark's security. I would not make this the subject of a political game, if I may say so. So we certainly would not have participated in that. We would have tried to convince the government of this, and we would have done everything we could to get them to do it. But to take it down and force a government to do so would not be wise or be the way to conduct security policy. When it comes to the second question, that is why we should not have an EU army, I would say: that is, the EU army is a bit of a fatality, because what is understood is what I think Mr. Søren Søndergaard's side is an army under the command of the Commission, that is, a supranational army. I don't see any reason to have that. I see reason why you train as you do in NATO so that if, for example, you do so. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. But I am also in favour of it being the Danish Parliament every time that we decide whether we want to take part in that mission whether it is one, the other or the third. So I don't really want a supranational army. We do not have that in NATO, and I see no reason why we should have it in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121409	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121410	Now I am not going to start a counter-productive discussion, but if the Left had put forward the proposal to abolish the defence reserve, it might be interesting to know whether the Radical Left would have voted against it if the tongue were on the balance. Because that was the case. And that was stated in all the negotiations on a new European political agreement. But okay, well, leave it alone. The question of Article 42 was, after all, a question of the fact that, if there is unanimity, a common defence can be established. That is what Article 42 says. And the question that I think is obvious is this: if we get into this situation, and a Danish government believes that this is what should be done so that Article 42 of the current Treaty of Lisbon should be used to create a common defence... can the Danish people be 100% sure that there will be a referendum on it? Can the Radical Left guarantee that every effort will be made to give the Danish people a referendum in this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121515	Well, if you want to go in and give up powers and surrender sovereignty, then it follows from the Constitution that there must be a referendum. It's as simple as that. If, under the current framework of the EU Council of Ministers, a majority decides that the EU should support a war effort somewhere, it will be clear at any time that our position is that the decision on whether Denmark should take part in the effort will be taken in the Danish Parliament. That is not something other countries can decide. Only the Danish Parliament can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121548	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408121558	Thank you very much. When reality changes and the conditions change, one must also be ready to adapt one's policy to the new reality. In defence language one might say that when the map does not fit the terrain, then the terrain one has to navigate, otherwise one gets lost, and we are standing right now in a whole new terrain. Putin's aggressive attack on Ukraine has fundamentally changed security in Europe, and we are experiencing for the first time a long war in our own backyard. Many had never thought that would happen, and events are likely to affect us for generations to come. The old safe world that we know and love is no longer the same, and it calls for us politicians to open their eyes and adapt our policies to this new reality. Right now we see horrifying images from the battlefield in Ukraine, quite close to Denmark, we see refugee flows far beyond what we saw in 2015, and exploding energy prices, sky-high heat bills and economic turmoil. This is the reality that Europe is in now and for a long time to come, and although the war in Ukraine is primarily a tragedy for Ukrainians, it is also a war against something else and something more. It is also a war against our common European values, which is why it is clear that Putin is a threat to our democracy and our security and a much greater threat than we had imagined. This shakes us up in our foundation in Europe, and it should, and will, have consequences and create an even stronger relationship with our European neighbours. Germany was the first to open its eyes just a few days after the attack on Ukraine, and Chancellor Olaf Scholz did in a few minutes up with 77 years of fear of touch in German defence and security policy. For the first time since the Second World War, Germany entered seriously in the defence of Europe and, in general, European unity has proved much stronger than both I and Putin probably had imagined. His greatest fears and the greatest security of both Denmark and our European neighbours are a united West, a strong Europe and an unbreakable unity, and that is why the referendum is about Denmark's defence reserve in the EU to strengthen our cohesion with the rest of Europe, to build confidence and solidarity between us and our European neighbours and allies, who for the first time in many years face a serious external military threat. This requires closer cooperation and coordination between us who share democratic values. Europe's security must be rethought and strengthened significantly, and Denmark must, of course, have an influence on and participate in this work. The abolition of the defence reserve will not now and here do anything about the deeply unhappy situation in Ukraine, but it will strengthen our ability to respond jointly with our European neighbours to the threats that are currently before us, including those that we are not yet aware of. If we remove the reservation, Denmark will have both the right to vote and the right of veto on the military part of the EU's defence cooperation. We do not have that today, and that is why it will mean that we can both help to decide where the European Union's military missions are going to take place in the future and what they are going to work for and whether they should be launched at all. One of the reasons why the SF was at the time the champions of our defence reserve in the EU was, among other things, that of the European Union. The fear of this standing army of the European Union which we in Denmark and the other Member States would lose control of, but that has not happened. Today, 30 years later, there is still no EU army, decisions are taken in complete unanimity between the Member States, and it is voluntary to contribute because that is how we want it. We do not see enhanced cooperation in defence and security policy in the European Union as something that, in the case of Denmark, must be neither a full nor a partial substitute for NATO, but it must be a complement, and that is also how the other Member States, which are part of NATO and part of the EU's defence and security cooperation, look at it. We need to use it for missions and interventions that the European Union is better at than NATO is. With those words, I would say that the SF wants and hopes that we will vote in favour of abolishing the defence reserve. Finally, I can say that we also support the adoption text put forward by the 'yes' parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122104	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's first, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122109	I just want to hear about something. If we look at the development of the SF over a few decades, then it is clear that the SF has been incredibly marked by the development of the German Green Party and has followed with a few years of delay. I would therefore just like to ask whether the SF agrees with the Greens, who have proposed that we should have an EU army, controlled by the European Parliament. Is that also SF's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122140	Well, I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has a slightly different idea of exactly how close SF is to the Greens than we ourselves have in SF. The Greens are, for example, the Greens. Federalists, we're not in the SF. But we see many similarities, and we want to cooperate in particular on precisely the green, which is a little in the name. But on the question of whether to change this defence cooperation into an EU army that we have no control over whether it should not be voluntary anymore, whether it should no longer be unanimity decisions, the answer for the SF is that no, of course it should not. Fortunately, as long as it is intergovernmental, we are in charge of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122221	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122222	But when I ask, it is of course on the basis of concrete quotations, i.e. for example. from Cem Özdemir and Tobias Lindner. These aren't random people in the party. A German Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and a Minister for Food and Agriculture in the German Government, here since it was established. After all, they have written in a speech of debate that they are in favour of the European Parliament being ultimately responsible for controlling European armed forces. It's not the same thing as every country decides. That's why I asked. But I understand that SF doesn't want to go that far. However, it may happen that the SF, which has followed the Greens in other areas, also changes there. Therefore, I would also like to ask SF whether SF will promise and guarantee, if it becomes relevant to fully activate Article 42, that the Danish people will have a referendum as a prerequisite for establishing a common EU defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122323	In other words, as has been said in the debate in the past, we cannot predict what is going on in the future. That is why we have this discussion at all today. That is because security in Europe has fundamentally changed. I see right now a Parliament that takes responsibility for that situation. We do not currently have in the SF a desire for an EU army, and for the moment European defence cooperation is an intergovernmental voluntary cooperation in which everything is adopted unanimously. This has been the case, and it will probably continue to be so for a very long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122359	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122402	Yeah. I am particularly concerned about the words at the moment or at present, which Mrs Valentina Berthelsen put in her last answer to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Because if there is one thing we know about the EU system, it is that it never stands still, and it is very, very rare that it goes in the direction that I and I believe a majority of Danes want. In fact, I think that most Danes feel that this Community, where we can act together, have common environmental rules, consumer rules, is a good idea, but that all of this with a superstructure with a coin and defence and migration policy and labour and social policy etc. It is not really something that we have asked for, but that it is something that we so graciously tolerate. So where does Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen think this is going? Now we heard someone before I don't remember who it was polemic that neither the Prime Minister, Mrs Pernille Vermund, nor I had the right to vote back in 1993, but without knowing Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen's birth year, I consider that she has many years ahead of her. So if we look into the crystal ball, where are we in 5 years, in 10 years? Can Mrs Valentina Berthelsen also then guarantee that there is still a right of veto and no EU army?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122505	I believe that where we are in five years' time and in ten years' time, hopefully with a much stronger cohesion in Europe and a much stronger focus on protecting our values and our borders, including from threats that we had not seen coming, such as those that we had not seen coming. the one that we are facing today from Russia. Right now, we've got, like, sir. Morten Messerschmidt himself emphasizes the right of veto, and we must then make use of it, but we cannot do so as long as we have a defence reserve. If situations arise in the European Union about our security and defence policy cooperation, that we want something that we do not want from Denmark, then we must be able to veto and influence it in the right direction instead. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt says that the EU is moving fast. I would say that I sometimes think things are going rather slowly, and right now we are in the unique situation that we have an opportunity to influence how we should protect Europe in the future. Denmark must have an influence on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122603	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122604	I believe that there is only one way in which Denmark can contribute to the protection of Europe's security, and that is through NATO, and what I note about Mrs Valentina Berthelsen's speech is that she keeps saying: right now, right now. Yes, but if there is one thing we have experience with, then it is that things never stand still in the European Union. It is getting worse all the time, it is constantly becoming something different from what the Yachts have said, i.e. the euro, the area of justice, the social area, the pay area. In all these areas, the 'yes' parties have been wrong. It's known. Well, you know very well that you either lied or just didn't know what you voted for when you said yes to the latest treaties in all these areas. So what's that argument? What guarantee can Mrs Valentina Berthelsen give to the Danish electorate on 1 June that this will not be what I fear, i.e. an EU army, majority voting? Can Mrs Valentina Berthelsen, for example? Will the electorate promise that they will have a new referendum if it goes in that direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122653-2	I don't understand at all that sir. Morten Messerschmidt cannot see that just when we talk about defence and EU cooperation, there is the mechanism that countries can veto if you are against something. We cannot do that in the other areas. The other reservations do not have the same mechanism, but in the field of defence and security we can veto. Why is it that sir... Mr Messerschmidt's argument that we are afraid of what this could develop into is not exactly an argument for us to get rid of that reservation so that we can veto if inappropriate things arise?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122733	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122736	Thank you. Well, it's just to stay on the same track, because now I've heard Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen's answer to both Mr. Søren Søndergaard and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Mrs Valentina Berthelsen may have all sorts of assumptions about what this is going to happen, and it is also true that, as it is now, this is done by unanimity. But that could be changed, and it could be changed by a Parliament. The central question is: can we guarantee that if it should develop in this direction, then the people will also be asked again? For this is basically a question of democracy and of ensuring that the people also have the opportunity to influence how European security cooperation should develop. And that is why it is interesting to hear whether the SF is willing to guarantee that there will be a new referendum if it turns out that decisions are taken by qualified majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122840	But I don't understand why it's the most important thing for Enhedslisten to ask. What I am concerned about as SFs is that right now we are seeing an invasion of a free, democratic country in Europe by Russia. It is an invasion that we did not even imagine we would have to deal with. And we need to find out how we will deal with this in the future, in other words how we strengthen our common European security and protect our values and our democracies from future threats too. That's what I care about. But what reality will look like in 5 years, 10 years, 30 years, by its very nature we do not know. What we know is that if we are united in Europe, we are better placed to deal with things and protect ourselves from what is coming. The interaction with NATO and the interaction with other forums where we have cooperation in security and defence policy will also be important in this respect. But exactly what it's gonna turn into, we can't say. That's why we have to move together now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122948	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408122949	Well, of course, it is absolutely crucial how we deal with the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The defence reserve just has nothing to do with that. At any rate, I have not yet heard any arguments as to why this should have an impact on how we deal with the Russian invasion of Ukraine. And that is why a question which is also interesting is: how do we behave democratically in this country? How do we ensure that the people are asked if decision-making powers are suddenly to be transferred from the people to the Folketing, which can then be deposited, in relation to qualified majority voting in the European Union, including in the field of security policy? That is what is at the heart of the matter, which is why it is also interesting to know whether the SF will then guarantee that the people will be asked in this context if that should happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123035	Well, that's not what's at all central. What is at the heart of this is how we deal with the security threat we face in the future too. It is true that it had done nothing for Ukraine that Denmark had abolished its defence reserve six months ago or a year ago. But what we can see and learn from the fact that Russia has invaded Ukraine is that Putin is willing to threaten European values and our democracies in a completely different way than we had imagined. And we must be able to deal with that in the future. This requires stronger and closer defence cooperation, of which Denmark is also a part, and that is thinking foresight when we have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123115	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123117	Thank you. The rapporteur has now been asked by three different rapporteurs essentially the same question about whether one can guarantee that the Danes will be asked in future if one wants to move to majority voting. And the rapporteur has always said that it is not central here, it is not the important thing here. But it could be that this was the important thing for the questioners, the rapporteurs who have asked the questions. It could also be that it was important for some of the people who voted for the SF when the SF had a different policy and who might now vote for other parties, not us, because we are probably not the closest, but perhaps on the Enhedslisten. In other words, does the rapporteur not at all recognise that this may be an important issue, including for some voters who are the SF's voters and who may not be the voters in the future? Can you get a guarantee that the Danes will be asked?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123211-2	This may be a very important issue on the day we find ourselves in a situation where, against all expectations, this cooperation will be done supranationally and set up an EU army over which we have no control. But what Mrs Pernille Vermund totally refuses to do is that it is not so today. This does not seem to be the case for the time being. And it hasn't been like that for the last 30 years. What we were afraid of was that the cooperation in defence and security policy in the European Union would develop has not happened. On the contrary, it is a cooperation in which efforts are made to complement what is going on in NATO: humanitarian interventions, institution building, the focus on long-term democratic development, holistic efforts that NATO and the Americans themselves are asking for. And none of this is adopted without unanimity and everything is voluntary, and everything is something that can be vetoed, except if you are Denmark, because we are outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123314	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123316	But when it is relevant now, it is because SF, along with other EU-enthusiastic parties, wants to remove Denmark's reservations. That's why it's gonna be relevant. Because we have first removed that reservation, and if we and the Danes do not have a guarantee that if we are to remove our right of veto, it will require a referendum, then I understand that there will be people who say that we know what we have, but we do not know what we are getting. Why is it so difficult for the SF to give that guarantee and for the government, for the Social Democratic Party, to give it a guarantee; for other EU-enthusiastic parties who recommend a yes, to give it a guarantee? I mean, it's here and not anymore. That is enough because one is not willing to continue this slippery path that the European Union is after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123401	Once again, it sounds as if Mrs Pernille Vermund has completely misunderstood what the yes parties are recommending. We recommend abolishing the defence reserve in the European Union for Denmark, and this means that we can voluntarily enter into security and defence policy cooperation, which there must be unanimity on adopting and on which we can veto if we do not like it. These are all influences that we can really use right now and that I would venture to claim we can also use in the future. We are not asking for an EU army, although I can hear that that is what is the fear of the 'no' parties. That is not what we are asking for at all, and that is not what is relevant to any of the Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123442	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408123502	I believe that we can all come together on days that have had a crucial impact both for ourselves as individuals and also for our perception of the world, that is to say days that have both initiated a need for rapid decisions, but also a need for some reflection on how policies were conducted in a more concrete context. For example, September 11th was September 11th. Such a day when the Twin Towers fell. It was understood that the threat posed by Islamist terrorists was something that had to be addressed very specifically. Another date, which is rightly mentioned, is, after all, 24 February. Because this is a date, not when something new happened to Russia or the Putin regime, not when war came for the first time in Europe, but when it could be said that it was on a scale that no one had expected. It was at a level that no one expected. That is why it is absolutely right and wise to do two things in this situation. First, to respond immediately to the situation that arises. And what was the situation? Yes, it was a situation in which Ukraine was threatened with being overrun. In other words, the Defence Intelligence Service has assured us that there was no threat to other NATO countries, nor to Denmark, but Ukraine was threatened with being overrun. That is why it was a crucial task that day, precisely in that situation, to defend Ukraine; to do what it could to defend Ukraine. There were two means on which, fortunately, there was broad agreement and which had a concrete significance in relation to Ukraine. One was a question of sanctions against Russia. We thought they were too small, too hesitant, but okay, sanctions were made, and hopefully there will be more. And the second was to provide the Ukrainian people with weapons so that they could defend themselves. That was also something we supported. That was the immediate reaction. And what is also needed then is a more thorough discussion and a more thorough consideration of that okay, what does this mean in a larger context? What does that mean for our security architecture? What does this mean for relations with different institutions? What does that mean for territorial defence? What does that mean in relation to a lot of things? It can be said that hardly ever before has there been so much need for a defence commission as in this particular situation. Unfortunately, this was not the path chosen by the majority of parties. They chose to issue a referendum for most parties on something that they have wanted to do away with for many years, namely the defence clause, but where this was then an opportunity to do so. And it was even released at very short notice. We may not think that to be wise. We think that there is a need for that fundamental discussion, and we are also willing to take it. At least we're doing it ourselves. However, the solution is not the rapid abolition of the defence reserve. And why isn't that? Because there are so many questions that arise. If we abolish and abolish the defence reserve, what is the concrete consequence of it? Well, what does that mean for our defense? Does that mean more wars? Does this mean further armament? What does that really mean? There we hear that the majority gives a number, I do not want to say guarantees, but they say a number of things about what they want and do not want, which is just not coherent at all; which is not written down and which is not clear. That is why we have to see that the answer blows in the wind, for example. on a central issue: if it is the case that at some point you want to create a genuinely common EU defence, which a lot of people want, will it require a referendum in Denmark? Because what we're giving up here is the people's guarantee of dealing with this. And then they say that yes, but it is not certain that the treaty can be changed. We're gonna ask the Justice Department to assess that. But can it be done by five sixths majority? Can it be done by a majority of five sixths in the Folketing? We know, for example. In fact, there are five sixths of the majority in favour of doing this sort of thing, so that is the reality. So my starting point is that we need a much deeper discussion and a much more fundamental discussion about this. That is the discussion that has been set up today. I think we might be able to concentrate more on it and spend some more time on that discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124032	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124038	We in Europe are currently facing a very concrete threat in the form of Russia, which is currently attacking Ukraine. We can then understand in the Enhedslisten that we do not want to cooperate as a much, much smaller country than Ukraine with NATO to secure our defence, nor do we want to cooperate with our EU allies and other European allies on our defence in European defence and security cooperation. Well, who does Enhedslisten even think we should cooperate with in terms of our defense? Or does Enhedslisten think that we can guarantee our own security just by standing for ourselves in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124121	Well, now the starting point is for that, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson says that there is a concrete threat to Denmark or to Europe, and there I just have to say that this is not the information we have. Well, of course, we're also only basing ourselves on the intelligence of the defense. There may be some other information, but I am not aware of it. Well, the defense intelligence service is quite clear when it comes to that question. There is no specific threat. The fact that it raises a lot of questions that require discussion, including with us, is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124158	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124207	However, a reason why there is no such great threat to Denmark could not be that we are precisely involved in defence cooperation with other like-minded countries, among others. in NATO and hopefully also soon within the European Union. There are, for example: A great cyber threat to Denmark; the rapporteur must give me that. Does the rapporteur not believe that that cyber threat could be reduced than it would otherwise be in the future if we now work with like-minded countries on it, instead of standing all alone as a small country, as the Enhedslisten's best bid is so far, as I understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124231	Well, I don't think we've refused to cooperate with other countries on cybersecurity in the fight against the cyberthreat. On the contrary, it is explicitly one of the things that we have mentioned ourselves as something in which we are both in favour of more money being spent to strengthen it and we can cooperate with other countries. So I don't understand. In other words, it is our view that we must certainly cooperate with other countries in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124259	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124303	However, if this cooperation takes place under the EU's common defence policy, we must not, of course, because we have the defence reserve. In the same way, we can imagine many other efforts that are being planned under the EU's common defence policy, where we cannot participate, even if we think it is positive to do so, and even though we may feel a duty to take part instead of just sitting in the back seat and letting the others handle what we think should be done. For example: there are efforts in the EU system to curb the migration of illegal immigrants across the Mediterranean through common defence cooperation. We cannot then participate in this, even if we think it is a good idea. It is possible that Enhedslisten thinks that they should all come and that the EU should not prevent them from coming. But the rest of us who think that we should take part in this sort of thing cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124406	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen is quite right in saying that we do not think it is a good idea to take military action against immigrants or refugees. We do not think this is a very suitable tool. So on that point, I can fully confirm that this is not something we want to be involved in. But I'm just saying we once had something called SHIRBRIG. It was Hans Hækkerup, then Secretary of Defense, who had been very active in getting it set up. It was something that was up in Heavens. It was a rapid reaction force under the United Nations. It was closed, and one of the arguments for its closure was that we could not make troops available to so many different places at once. We had to concentrate. Perhaps there are some other priorities than Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. We think, for example, that the UN force should be restored; we think that we should make much more material available for UN missions. Some of the things that have been mentioned, for example. I welcome the fact that we have not been able to clear mines under one flag, but then we have been able to do so under another flag. That's nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124516	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124517	The fact that European Union action takes place under the hat of European defence cooperation does not necessarily mean that military action is taken. There are also civil-military mixed forms, and that is what I am talking about here. But completely theoretically, even though Enhedslisten thinks that everyone should walk across Europe's borders and that power should not be used to prevent it • can Enhedslisten not at all imagine operations under the European Defence Hat, which Enhedslisten thinks should be implemented, and where Enhedslisten means that it is too poor that Denmark does not do its duty and participate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124602	In other words, everything is a priority, and I must honestly admit that, with the starting point and the history that the European Union has, I believe that the European Union should set itself on a number of other things. This also applies to Bosnia. There we should be looking for democracy building and helping national minorities to do that. In other words, if we now look at Putin's opportunity to wreak havoc around, they are very much in the fact that there are some national minorities in different countries who have some problems with being recognised • sometimes speak their own language. There, I think, the European Union could play a huge role, and that would have a security policy significance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124646	The next brief remark is on Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124651	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We look at this situation differently, and when I listen to the rapporteur's speech, I get a little curious about one question. Does the Enhedslisten believe that Russia is a threat to Europe right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124709	Generally speaking, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124715	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124716	Okay, I'm surprised. I see Russia as a threat to Europe, both now and in the future. It actually shocks me a little that Enhedslisten does not mean it, but it may also explain the positions of Enhedslisten, but not to a point where I agree with them. If the Enhedslisten does not see Russia as a threat to Europe right now, what is a threat to Europe right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124744	But that is because the question is not very precise. In other words, Russia is obviously a threat to certain countries in Europe. I would estimate that Russia may be a threat to Moldova, even if it is a current threat to Moldova. I believe that Russia can currently be a threat to Georgia. On the other hand, I do not consider Russia to be a threat to Denmark, which is why Russia is not a threat to the whole of Europe. And I just have to say that we have an intelligence assessment that says exactly that. Does it have anything to do with whether we like Putin or does it have anything to do with whether we defend ourselves? No, on the contrary, we are sending weapons to Ukraine to fight Putin. That is what we are in favour of. There is a specific threat and it must be combated, but it is not the same as there being a concrete threat to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124844	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124847	After all, it is crazy to have to discuss whether Russia is a threat to Europe after Russia has invaded a European country. Sir. Søren Søndergaard started his speech by saying that what had happened on 24 February this year actually marked a turning point. That is about the only thing I agreed with. Because it is clear that we want to prevent, even if it was positive, that we could then be involved in EU cooperation in the field of defence. You don't want to. That's why you recommend a no. Nor is it supported that we strengthen the Danish defence, as we have agreed, by spending more money on a strengthened Danish defence. And, as I am aware, I still wish to withdraw Denmark from NATO. - Sir... Søren Søndergaard does not see that the reason why some countries in Europe are not under threat is that we have cooperation? And sir... Søren Søndergaard confirm that one still wants to leave NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408124955-2	Yes, I can fully confirm that there are some countries that feel threatened and that there is a security with NATO, completely. However, what the question was was whether there was a threat to Europe, and at the moment we are trying to create such a picture that we are all in the situation where Russia can intervene and attack all the countries of Europe. Russia can't do that. It is clear, however, that Russia poses a threat to the countries around Russia, and they have been doing so for a long time. I just have to say what I also said earlier: the invasion in Ukraine was not something that happened on 24 February; the invasion in Ukraine happened in 2014. So the threat has been there for a very long time, and it is clear that it has become clearer by creating a war that has involved areas closer to our borders. But it is clear to me that Russia poses a threat to specific countries located in Europe, and we must combat that. That is why we have advocated arms for Ukraine. It is precisely for them to have an opportunity to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125108	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125109	The first part of the answer was: No, there is no threat to NATO countries. - Sir... Søren Søndergaard then answer whether Enhedslisten still thinks we should get out of NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125124	After all, I had a little earlier discussions with sir. Jens Joel said that about what's in party programs. Yes, the Enhedslisten wants NATO abolished. The Enhedslisten wants a different security system in Europe, among other things. in order to avoid the situation where there are power blocs facing each other, and we can only change that by creating a collective security system. And it is regrettable that, when Russia came to its knees after the fall of the Wall, we failed to create a collective security system in Europe that avoided confrontation with each other. Yes, it is our view that that is the goal. What does that mean for what we do exactly today? In other words, we have made no suggestion in the Folketing that we should resign from NATO. I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125210	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125215	The rapporteur says that Russia is not a threat to Denmark. I think we all remember what it was like after World War II with Bornholm, how Denmark was strongly threatened by Russia. I do not know whether the rapporteur can recall that, and a few weeks ago, we ourselves, as members of the Council of Europe, helped to ask Russia to leave the Council of Europe because it is a threat. Are the things that have been seen with the little green men who have also infiltrated in Ukraine, and what the Baltic countries fear is going to happen there, not a real threat, that is, that we also see a security threat in the Baltic countries, which may not come directly militaryly, but through infiltrating?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125303	It is clear that if Putin had succeeded with the project he was undertaking, that is to say to conquer Ukraine, to put in a sound government, then many would be threatened. In other words, the risk that he went further would be great, and that is why it is so crucial that he is beaten in Ukraine. That is precisely why we have repeatedly said that we have supported harsh sanctions against Russia and that we have supported the sending of weapons to Ukraine. But in relation to the general threat, and then you can heaven and look strange with your eyes... we're just relying on what the Defense Intelligence Service says in its threat assessment, and it's guaranteed to be taken up in the coming point. It's what we can rely on. I don't have an independent threat assessment, but I have it as the Defense Intelligence Service has.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125355	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125356	The rapporteur referred to cybersecurity, almost as if it were such a civil issue. One of the greatest threats we have, also according to the Center for Military Studies Security Barometer, is precisely in the cyber area. It has been demonstrated several times that large Danish companies, among others. Feel it, has been attacked from Russia via Ukraine. Isn't there a real threat in the cyber area, or is it only if there are tanks? That is my question: is there not a concrete threat on the cyber front that we are facing from Russia in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125434	Yeah, sure. We are experiencing a concrete threat from Russia in the cyber area, we are experiencing a concrete threat from Russia to misinformation, we are experiencing a concrete threat from China to misinformation, and perhaps from elsewhere. So yes, and that's exactly why we, among other things. working for a media reconciliation at the moment, which allows us to have as strong a press as possible to counter misinformation. That is why we have clearly said that we want to contribute to increasing funding for the defence of the cyber area, the defence of the cyber area by companies, the defence of the cyber area by Danish society, the defence of the cyber area by Danish institutions. That's why.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125511	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125515	If the Enhedslisten's rapporteur believes that Russia is not a threat to Denmark, is it because we are members of NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125523	Well, I have a little difficulty in seeing what concrete interest Russia should have in conquering Denmark. I have to admit that. I'm having a really hard time with that. But there are other countries for which it is clear that their membership of NATO is probably what their guarantee is at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125545	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125548	But this is not consistent with the fact that Enhedslisten has the impression that Russia is not a danger to Denmark. This is not consistent with the fact that the Enhedslisten is then opposed to NATO. Well, it's in my eyes... and I'm sure my feeling is as good as mr. Søren Søndergaard's • exclusively because Denmark was fortunate enough to join the NATO Pact in 1949 that we have had no threats against us, against our country and our people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125617	If anything exists, there is a threat of a nuclear war which also affects Denmark. So, frankly, I have the merit of seeing the operational plans that involve a conventional attack by Russia on Denmark. I just want to say that. There are other countries that are in a very different situation, and in the context of a general confrontation there may also be a threat to Denmark, but that is one of them. to a great extent a nuclear threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125657	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur here. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408125717	Since the beginning, the Conservative People's Party has been opposed to Denmark having a defence reserve, and especially over the last 10 years, when the defence reserve has had ever greater consequences, as defence policy cooperation among the other EU countries has been strengthened. The price for the reservation has been that Denmark has lost influence on issues of importance to broad Danish security interests and defence industrial interests, and so it can continue. That is why we must abolish the voluntary reservation for security cooperation as soon as possible on 1 June. It's also about what you show to the outside world. Following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the West and especially the European Union have been incredibly close together. This is the only positive thing we can say about the terrible war. Therefore, we in the Conservative People's Party also want to show the rest of the European Union that we are fully joining the other Member States on an equal footing. We believe that it is important for us to take our own security seriously and to be a co-player when it comes to taking care of Europe. Since the defence reservation was introduced, it has been activated 27 times, and I will mention two important things out of several where we are not on board. One is that we cannot participate in what we call PESCO cooperation, which is now approx. Sixty projects in training, air and land-military systems, maritime security and cybersecurity are relevant to Denmark, because it is precisely groups of countries that can develop together those projects that are in line with their own security and defence policy needs, and indeed it can also have a positive impact on the capabilities of NATO countries. That is why third countries such as the United States, Canada and Norway, which are our strong allies, are participating precisely in this cooperation, and this is a clear example of the fact that both NATO and strengthened military capabilities among European countries are not a contradiction, nor is it a division, but rather a strengthening of Western security cooperation. In Denmark we have strong military powers, but materially I think we all agree that we could stand stronger. That is also why we are very pleased that Conservative defence policy has in fact now become a widespread defence policy among at least six parties. Now we need 2%. of bnp to strengthen the defense, but what should it say on the shopping slip? Here it is important that we have equipment that is at the forefront and is up to date with the threat picture and that fits in with other countries. I myself have been deployed for several years in some of the sharp areas, and I myself have experienced how bad it works when countries have different materials when they have different rotation periods. Even among others. It is also very difficult in NATO because you do not have the joint training that really needs to be done for you to be ready, and you have to train. Furthermore, we also want Denmark to participate voluntarily in military operations with other EU countries. There are a number of doubts around, and this is also understandable, because the EU is not very much debated in Denmark. It comes up mostly when there is something that the European Union does in the area of employment, but of course we are also strongly opposed to it, but we are not really having a debate on all the things that the European Union is doing right now to create greater independence from the countries with which we do not share a community of values. Some of the myths are whether we should now work under a European flag. No, there is not a European army which opposes the abolition of the defence reserve usually uses in scaremongering, and there is no NATO army, and there is not a UN army, but Danish soldiers can be with a Dannebrog on one side and an organizational mark on the other side that shows who you are. And why do we have to do away with this right now? We must because we have been living on a peace dividend for far too long. Denmark has been active in the world, but now is the time for us to protect ourselves. The Ukraine crisis has shown the need to remove the defence reserve. The new situation means that defence is heavily armed in the EU countries, and therefore it is important that this reservation be abolished so that Denmark will be able to contribute to military operations and could prevent conflicts also happening on European soil, as in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to be able to participate in the adoption and financing of military operations and capabilities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130225	Thank you. I can see that a few have asked for a brief comment. First, it's sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130233	Thank you. I just want to follow up on the question I have put to a number of other rapporteurs. Does the Conservative rapporteur think that there should be a referendum if a future majority in the Danish Parliament chooses to support a common defence in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130257	Now, if you take the provision that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentioned earlier, i.e. Article 31 (1). In fact, Article 31 (2) of the CFSP states that decisions must be taken by a qualified majority. 4 that the provision does not apply to decisions having military or defence implications. That is why we are not actually going to go that way, and from the Danish side we will never surrender our sovereignty in terms of our defence and military.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130327	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130329	That's not what I asked. In other words, I asked if the Conservatives would help here to promise and guarantee that, in the event of a situation in which a common defence of the European Union is to be established, the Danish people will have a referendum, even if there is a majority of five sixths in the Danish Parliament. That was the question very specific. The reason I ask is, of course, that Mrs Mette Abildgaard has given an interview to dk4 in which she says that people should not be bothered in time and prematurely. So I just want to hear what the official position is from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130408	But as I say, we're not getting there now. It is a very hypothetical question that it should come up. Because when you go down in the EU Treaty here, it says that the common foreign and security policy rules here are Article 31. In the case of a decision with military and defence implications, it shall not be possible to move from unanimity to a qualified majority in the Council. So somehow it's a little hypothetical to say that it's gonna happen. Because it's actually not possible as it is now. And then we must also have an Intergovernmental Conference if it requires completely elementary Treaty changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130451	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130452	Thank you. The rapporteur and the rapporteur's party know how I and we in New Citizens feel about politicians who say one thing and do another, and I did not really intend to put questions to Conservatives today. We usually have good cooperation. However, I have to say I feel somewhat offended when the rapporteur stands up and makes it sound as if the whole parliament has now become widespread with knowledge and understanding of the importance of conservative defence policy, i.e. that we have to reach the 2%. of our bnp to the defense, as we promised NATO in 2014. A year ago, we made a proposal in the Danish Parliament to get up to 2%. by bnp as soon as possible. Conservatives then voted no. The parties that have subsequently been invited to negotiations on this are exactly the parties that, together with Conservatives, voted no. The parties who voted at that time to raise the defence budget were not invited to join the DF, Liberal Alliance and New Civil Society. Can the rapporteur tell us why Conservatives voted 'no' last year and was it a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130600	I have not been involved in exactly the debate that took place in that room, but I can tell you why we voted as we did last time, and that was because there was a lack of funding for how it was to be done. But it is part of our general policy that we want it up to 2%. And it is true that New Citizens have been very active on that agenda, and I would very much like to sign New Citizens for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130623	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130624	Thank you for that answer. For that must mean that the funding that is now in place is a financing that is welcome in Conservatives, in other words a financing where we deposit the bill in the children's room; where we give the left and the government an opportunity to distribute not only the billions that have to go to the defence, but also the additional over 13 billion. kr. What does the rapporteur think is the likelihood of a bourgeois majority coming or that the Danes will have a more bourgeois society when Conservatives choose to vote in favour of funding that gives the government and the red parties the opportunity to share the Danes' money at all times?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130709	I do not want to go into that discussion about how it is to be financed in relation to what has been given to the left, because it is something outside my area as an EU rapporteur, and we need to talk about this with our financial rapporteur. But we are in favour of finding the money for the 2%, and we are very, very pleased that there is such a broad consensus that we need to strengthen the defence. Then there are other agreements that we are not in, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130747	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. And thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408130803	New citizens are recommending a 'no' to the referendum on 1 June. Denmark's defence needs to be strengthened, but the answer is not to participate in building an EU defence. The answer is a strengthened NATO. This is where Denmark must focus its efforts in cooperation with the other countries of the NATO Alliance, including the United States, Canada, Great Britain and Norway, which are not part of the European Union. Nothing has been gained for Denmark's security now in lifting the defence reservation. At best, it just costs a little more money without making any use. In the worst case scenario, this could lead to a weakening of NATO and thus our common defence. There are many myths about what we will vote on on 1 June. The text that the EU-enthusiastic parties will have printed on the ballot does not make it easier for the Danes, even after yesterday's attempt to restore the damage from the first presented and completely hopeless version. The letter and I quote: firstly, it is the European Union's common defence and not European cooperation in defence that we are voting on. So Europe and the European Union are not the same, no matter how much the EU-enthusiastic parties may wish to do so, and it is certainly not the same in terms of defence, where Britain and Norway are important European defence allies in NATO, but are not part of the European Union. Secondly, we are not voting on security policy. Denmark is already fully involved in EU security policy cooperation. Denmark is also fully involved in the part of cooperation on the Defence Fund and the development of defence infrastructure. The reservation of defence is only a reservation regarding Danish participation in the building of a common defence and a reservation year for Danish participation in military actions under EU flag and EU command. I do not want to be a motive researcher as to why the EU-enthusiastic parties are so quick to mislead, at worst manipulate. Instead, allow me to use my speaking time in today's debate to briefly outline some facts which I hope will help the Danes towards the vote. A 'no' vote on 1 June will keep Denmark out of the decision to build a common EU defence system, which will eventually become a genuine EU army. A no on 1 June is the Danes' assurance against the politicians at Christiansborg dragging Denmark further into the Union and slowly releasing more and more of Denmark's independence. A 'no' on 1 June ensures that after decades of neglect, the reconstruction of defence is focused 100% on the defence of Denmark and on a contribution to our allies in the NATO alliance. A yes, on the other hand, on 1 June, is a commitment to building a common defence in the European Union in the long term, capable of defending the citizens of the European Union against attacks from the outside and from the inside towards the United States of Europe. A yes on 1 June leaves it to the politicians at Christiansborg to decide which actions under EU flag Danish soldiers are to participate in and remove the Danes' insurance against more EU. A yes on 1 June does not increase Denmark's security in the current crisis with Russia as a result of Russia's attack on Ukraine. EU defence cannot protect Denmark; only NATO can. A 'no' vote on 1 June cannot prevent a future EU army in competition with NATO. If you want it in the EU, that army will come, whether Denmark is with or not. A 'no' vote on 1 June does not exclude Denmark from participating in preventive defence efforts in countries in our neighbourhood. It is already taking place on a large scale in NATO. A 'no' on 1 June does not harm Denmark's ability to participate in the fight against cyber attacks and hybrid attacks, for example. We also participate in this through NATO, which cooperates with the European Union, just as Britain and Norway do through NATO. A 'no' vote on 1 June does not prevent Denmark from supporting the NATO alliance through the EU, for example. to develop infrastructure so that NATO forces can come to each other more easily and more quickly. And a 'no' on 1 June does not exclude Denmark from participating in the Defence Fund, which finances among other things. development of common weapons systems, communication systems and the like. It takes place as an industrial cooperation in the internal market, in which Denmark is already fully involved. In New Citizens, we have no doubt. Denmark's defence must be strengthened in NATO. We should not participate in the construction of an EU defence policy, which is why we recommend that we vote against the referendum on 1 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131318	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131323	I want to hear that, despite the fact that New Citizens do not want Denmark to contribute to the security of our region through the common European defence policy, whether or not there is none of what the European Union's common defence policy does, as New Citizen thinks is still well done by somebody it is then the EU in that case and then contributes to the security and stability of our continent. And if New Citizens can see that in some of the efforts that are being made there is a positive contribution to our continent, one is not ashamed to think: yes, yes, it is all the other countries that are doing that which is positive, but Denmark just sits back and does not contribute?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131418	It is rare for me to say that I am ashamed, but precisely in defence I do not actually do so with the European Union, but with NATO. I think it is quite unacceptable that we should not at least have our history and the thanks we owe to the Americans and the British have not yet reached the 2% level. of our bnp, which we have promised to use on our defences in relation to NATO. So allow me to say that I think one should be ashamed of the fact that I think it is a little big to say shame, but I actually think that one ought to do that because the fact is that there are Americans who are going around paying more in taxes to finance a defense that is available to look after us and our neighbouring countries because we are not paying our part of the bill ourselves. I like that. I think we can rightly be ashamed of ourselves there. In relation to the European Union, I am not ashamed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131506	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131510	Well, I think that's a little weird. The EU's common defence cooperation has ambitions to address the flow of illegal migrants across the Mediterranean. So you can ask: Is it successful or is it not? But it is a worthy effort, and Denmark could then help to give it success. Would it not be good if Denmark contributed with this noble purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131541	The European Union has many noble intentions. It is very rare that there is a link between the intentions of the European Union and the outcome of what the European Union actually sets out to do. Having said that, Frontex is the one who protects the EU's external borders. And the missions that have been on the African continent have, to put it mildly, as I said earlier, I do not know how to say the diplomatic • certainly not prevented migratory flows or stopped conflicts in the areas one has been in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131610	Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131617	Yes, we fully agree, and NATO is extremely important. But has NATO not also asked the European Union and its leaders to strengthen their own military capabilities? And is the way to do it, for example. a PESCO cooperation? One is that you have a fund that can help. There are also our companies that can develop things. However, going in and finding out what we need to develop and what those capacities are and how we use them cannot be involved in PESCO cooperation. What, then, is it that the European Union must make itself stronger, also in order to have a stronger relationship with the United States, but also in order to strengthen NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131653	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131657	We in New Citizens have no intention that the European Union should be stronger vis-à-vis NATO. We have an intention that we in Europe must deliver our share of defence and the economy, that we can take care of ourselves and also take care of our allies in NATO. So we have a huge ambition for that. It is quite natural that the Americans should come forward. Some say it in a way that Trump did; others say it as Biden does: you have to make a bigger contribution yourself, it is your neighbourhood that stands for shots. We cannot continue to pay that much of the bill when you do not want to pay for your own freedom and independence. So I think it is perfectly natural for the Americans to say that you must now stand up and I think it is quite right that we should do so in Europe. But there is a difference between Europe and the European Union. And I have no desire for it, and I have no intention of doing so, nor do we in New Citizens' Party that we should have an EU defence with a potential EU army in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131758	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131801	But defence cooperation in the European Union is precisely intergovernmental. In fact, many of them are the same countries that are part of NATO. So it is precisely the case that with an EU hat and a NATO hat we are helping to protect and strengthen Europe, precisely because, as the rapporteur says, the United States says, you must take care of your own responsibilities. That is precisely why we need to remove the defence reserve so that we can participate in voluntary security cooperation and take care of our neighbourhoods. Bosnia and Herzegovina is exploding; Libya so that it is not that way up; refugee flows; stabilisation; also in the Middle East. Isn't that exactly why we're here? Because would NATO do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131845	Yes, NATO is us. NATO is not just the United States. It is possible that the United States and the Americans have contributed a very, very large part economically and also in terms of material, but NATO is us. That's what we need to get used to thinking about. We must get used to thinking that the European NATO countries must also shoulder their share of responsibility within NATO. Then you can have a desire for the European Union and a full membership of the European Union, etc., gone with the legal reservation and gone with all other reservations. We do not want that. We want the European Union to return to a European Community. Then we can't have that. However, we would like the European Union to concentrate on the internal market and on free trade. That's probably where things stand between Conservatives and New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131922	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131927	It was just a bit about this contradiction that we are working together on some things other than what NATO is providing in a European context, which I find difficult to understand should be bad for NATO. Does Mrs Pernille Vermund think that, for example, The United States, Norway and Canada are undermining NATO because they are also part of European cooperation on security and defence in some areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408131955	Well, I do not think the important argument here is that the EU is undermining NATO. I think the important thing is: where should we concentrate our defence efforts? And what is it that we have an interest from the perspective of New Citizens that the European Union is dealing with? We have a great interest in Denmark that we have a strong defence alliance with our allies, the United States, Canada, Norway and the United Kingdom, not least for the sake of Denmark's geographical location. This is absolutely crucial for us. We have no defence interest in participating in armed conflicts or missions on the African continent or anywhere else in the world. When we speak of defence, it is important for us that we do not talk about an activist foreign policy like others have of politics where you go out and think that you can fight people out in the world and then create democracies through it. We want it to be about defending Denmark and Danish interests, and we do that at the very best in NATO, and we do not do that through the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132052	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132056	If we take an area such as the cyber area, there is much to suggest that a great deal of it is going to be under European defence and security cooperation. This is an area in which, because we are a very digital country, we would see it as a great advantage that we could be involved in that cooperation. Although others might perhaps dream that this cooperation should develop in NATO, it will probably not come to the full, including in the United States. Because NATO is also a very complex size, ranging from Turkey to the United States. So there may also be some things that are difficult to get up against under NATO. However, in relation to this case of the cooperation that is developing there, will Mrs Pernille Vermund say that we have to stand outside it forever because she wants it to be somewhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132135	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132139	Well, NATO already has a cyber program. NATO already has a cyber program. So the fact that we are talking about developing something else simply does not make sense. In other words, we are talking about it as if it is not real that this is already taking place in NATO on a large scale. And yes, I want us in Denmark to contribute more to it. Of course we do. Unfortunately, however, the conditions are that there has been no willingness to do so. The Left was also one of the parties that voted against when we tabled a proposal last year to reach the 2%. of our help to the defense, as we have promised NATO. There was also one of the parties that voted against and thus also voted against the fact that we could allocate more money to, for example, the United States. cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132216	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it is the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132235	When you think about it, it's something we're dealing with here, with the Danish defence reserve. In other words, if there are any European countries in a club that we are in and ask ourselves whether we want to participate in any cooperation in the area of defence and security on the continent of which we are part, then the defence reserve says that we must say no. We do not have a reservation, for example. Brazil came and asked if we would take part in a similar cooperation... or the United States or even China. We have no reservations about that. It is unlikely that we would participate in anything with China, it is, but we do not have a reservation against it. That is why it is really weird that we have a reservation that we can take part in something if our European friends ask. It is, of course, an expression of such an unfortunately excessive EU scare, which is also cultivated by Enhedslisten, New Civil and Danish People's Party in this matter. We in the Liberal Alliance feel that there are a number of efforts on the continent of Europe that some people need to take care of. And we cannot always expect NATO to do so. It is therefore to be hoped that some European countries will do so at times. And that is what is happening in European defence cooperation. So we hope that some European countries will take care of this job, in other words do things that are important for security and stability in Europe, even when NATO does not want to participate or it is not suitable for NATO efforts. But in Denmark we have a reservation that when it happens, we cannot participate, even if it is meaningful, even if every decent person and every decent country may think: well, when this important work is done, we have a duty to contribute. It can't just be the other people's problem every time. We have to make a contribution from time to time. That prevents the defence reserve from doing our duty. For me, it's not so much about interests or sitting at the table. For me, it's about being able to do your duty. When something is important to our continent, it is not only all the others who have to do it; then Denmark must also help. So even if we could have an interest it may happen that we have an interest in it being done then it is some other than us who have to do it. It's not good enough for me. If we have a desire for the work to be done, then we also have a duty to contribute to it. That's what this is about for me. Then the opponents of a 'yes' to abolishing the Danish defence reserve: Oh, but it may well be that the EU will eventually have an EU army. Yeah, no one knows. Right now it doesn't look like it, but it may well happen at some point in the future. Then it is just the case that if there is an EU army that includes the EU being able to command the defence forces of the Member States, if you were to command Danish soldiers, that would of course include what is called a surrender of sovereignty under section 20 of the Constitution, where, under the Constitution, we are obliged to • unless there are five sixths majority in the Folketing, who want to do so, and unless this majority does not want to hold a referendum, which we have a tradition of doing in Denmark. Because we cannot just allow Brussels to decide over Danish soldiers without the granting of powers which today lie under the Danish Empire. So whether we have a defence reserve or not, there can be an EU army at some point or it cannot come. But if we do not have the defence reserve, it will still be the case that the Danes will be asked whether Denmark should be part of an EU army, it might come at some point, even if it does not look like this today. It is therefore difficult to take the tirades of the 'no' parties seriously in this matter. And that's our view of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132738	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132747	I'd like to say to Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen, we note that it is at least the position of the former German Chancellor and the position of the current French President that it is the wish of an EU army, the EU Army, the Europäische Armee, or how it is now formulated. If so, sir. Ole Birk Olesen says, is right, so it will not be possible within the existing treaty. Why, then, are the French and German leaders not saying that we should then have a treaty change? They don't. They're just saying they want to have it in Article 42. - Sir... Ole Birk Olesen so try to explain a little, how it is related they have no reservations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132831	I have not dealt with whether it requires Treaty changes or not. I have dealt with the fact that if Denmark is to participate, there must be a referendum. It has to, because that is what the Constitution says, and we also have a tradition of doing so in Denmark. If there is not a majority of five sixths who want to go through this without a referendum, then there must be a referendum. That is what I am talking about, and not all that legalism with EU treaties, and what the EU's decision-making processes say, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt we go up. I am concerned about the Danish decision-making processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132900	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132909	But these things are funny. No). Yes, they do, because this treaty has been ratified by Denmark under Article 19 of the Constitution on the basis of previous transfers of powers. And if France, Germany, Belgium and all the other countries that are in the European Union without reservation believe that they can make an EU army on the basis of this Treaty, but that what prevents Denmark from joining it is that we have our reservations and then we abolish our reservations, then that is what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says, as it is notoriously incorrect, because then the power has already been transferred. How could Germany have delegated the power without Denmark having done so? It's the same treaty.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132942	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408132946	We are currently entering a referendum on whether Denmark should participate in European defence cooperation at an intergovernmental level. We are not obliged under the Constitution to hold a referendum on this, but yet we are doing so, because that is the tradition in Denmark. It is, of course, quite unthinkable that, in the situation where Denmark had to decide whether Danish soldiers should be subject to something without Parliament's involvement and participate in European crusades or voyages in different places, we should do so without a referendum. Of course we are taking a referendum on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408133027	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. And then we have reached the ministers of the government, and the first to speak is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408133044	Thank you for an interesting debate. Comments and questions: I will come back to a few of them in a moment. However, I think it is important to dwell on the fact that what we are in is a unique security situation in Europe, with Russia's attack on Ukraine on 24 February, and that the kind of war we are seeing now, which we have not seen since the second war, will change the security situation and Europe in the future. I think that's really important to take stock of here. It has made it clear to us that it should make clear to everyone in Europe and in the world, in the Western Alliance, that we must do what we can at all together to oppose the evil that Russia and Putin currently stand for, the brutality, the abuse of the values, the order that must protect the security of all of us, and that is why it is so important that we also have the debate on how Denmark can contribute here. We are contributing in NATO with an increased defence budget of 2% and, of course, we must also be involved in European cooperation in the field of security and defence and helping to increase security in Europe, in our neighbourhood, in the situation we are facing. Then there are two points in the debate that I have noticed. First of all, to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: I still find it striking that the new security situation in Europe was not mentioned at some point in the rapporteur's speech at some point. That's what I noticed. I also took note of the fact that another rapporteur, the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Søren Søndergaard, claimed that Russia is not a general threat to European security. I think that is perhaps a very mysterious thing when you look at what we are in the middle of Europe. I had actually sworn that I would not go up here to take part in such a debate to correct things that are wrongly put forward from the platform, but I still think I have to, because some things have been claimed from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's side, which is simply wrong. Article 31 of the Treaty of Lisbon was referred to, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions something about the possibility of a qualified majority in the field of defence cooperation. He mentions paragraphs (a) and (b). 1, I think, and paragraphs. 2 but forget, and I do not know why, but completely forget to mention paragraph 2. 4 which specifically excludes qualified majority voting on military and defence, and I just hope that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can confirm. So, I think that a debate in this Chamber should always be based on a factual basis, and I am therefore sorry to have to come up here to correct this question. I would also like to say that we are therefore in a new normal reality, as the NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg report has said, and that the Secretary-General of NATO also stressed, and I repeat, that the fact that we have strong, good and effective cooperation in the European Union, and the fact that we have an effect, strong and good cooperation in NATO, are two sides of the same coin. I should just like to remind you that yesterday, as I said, I attended a meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers in Brussels, where the European Union was also invited as the most natural part of the world, because we are faced with security threats calling for unity. In this respect, another article of the Treaty has been discussed, which I would also like to make clear just so that nothing is left of the allegations that have been made: Article 42 states that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt referred to several times, in paragraph 2. 2. that the establishment of a common defence requires, firstly, that all Member States agree on all Member States and, secondly, that such a possible decision is in accordance with the constitutions of the countries and, in the case of Denmark, the Basic Law. So it's just to make it clear. And then I would like to emphasise here: the government does not support an EU army if it ever comes up for discussion. No one wants an EU army from my Foreign Ministers. Nobody! Moreover, I do not think, if I look at the Chamber today, that I see any party or Member, at least I have not met any party or any Member who has said that they want an EU army. It may change sometime in the future, but I don't think so. I believe that this is so fundamental a part of being a national state that, of course, you have your own defence, just as we do in Denmark and also want to be forward-looking when we participate in NATO or in European security and defence cooperation or in UN missions around the world. It's just to make it clear. It is, of course, the case today, with the 27 other EU countries that have cooperation in the field of security and defence, that if they wanted to go ahead and do something like that, and that is hypothetical, because none of them want to make an EU army, there is one thing that is rock-proof, and that is that Denmark would not be able to prevent it because we are outside the common security and defence cooperation. If we choose to accept participation by saying yes on 1 June in the referendum, Denmark will have a right of veto, just as the 27 other countries will have a right of veto. So if you are really worried about something that is not and really want Denmark to have an influence here, you should of course, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, support the government and a majority in the Folketing in abolishing the defence reserve and joining the common security and defence cooperation in Europe. So it was just a little reflection I thought you should bring. Having said all this, I just appeal to us to look at the big picture as well. We are in a situation where Russia has challenged the European security structure, the security of the world, in other words, in a situation in which the values for which we in democratic countries are fighting so hard, namely the rule-based international cooperation, in which there is respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the countries, have been so grossly violated by Russia's brutal, inhuman, disgusting, terrible war, which we also regularly see from and now see from Butja and elsewhere in Ukraine, where we see what brutality there is and what war crimes are being committed. In this case, I hope that some of the parties that have not even mentioned the new security situation in Europe today will reflect on how we can strengthen Western security cooperation. If we want to do so, then we must also say 'yes' to Denmark being able to participate fully and wholeheartedly in the European security and defence policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408133750	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408133755	Now, of course, I have not said that there is no military threat to any country in Europe. I have said that there is no military threat to Europe as a whole. And that makes a certain difference. But I know that when we discuss this, it is as if the nuances are going to disappear completely. But then I would also like to say that what is the problem, and I cannot understand that, is why the government, together with the parties supporting the government, is not just saying that, if it comes to establishing a common defence under Article 42, it is of course issuing a referendum on whether Denmark should back it up. It would be so simple. I have put the question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and there will be such a long disgust that the establishment of a common defence requires that all Member States agree and that, before a possible decision is taken, there will be a need to clarify what is closer to a common defence. Then we'll see it already. Then you can start by saying that this is not quite a proposal, but why not just say that we are taking a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408133900	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408133904	But, sir. Søren Søndergaard, I have said very clearly that this government is opposed to a common European army. It is also my impression that the whole parliament is opposed to a common EU army. So if we take part in pan-European cooperation in the field of security and defence and there are some people who should have the idea that we should create a common European army, then we would be able to block it. So it's so simple. That's the first thing. Should it come to a situation where there was some future government and a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly I find it difficult to imagine, because now we have had this cooperation in Europe in the field of defence and security since 1993, where there has not been a joint EU army, but let us now assume it and where there are some countries that thought it was exciting, then it will require the normal constitutional procedures. And that will also mean that, as we have done the other times in relation to section 20 of the Constitution, we shall have a referendum in Denmark. It's as simple as that. I think it's a little crazy. I have heard that there is a party that wants Denmark to withdraw from NATO in principle, but there is not a party that has said that we must have a common EU army. I haven't heard. It may be that Mr. Søren Søndergaard has heard something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134011	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134015	After all, there are many things that EU supporters have not said about the European Union. So, the nuts we break ourselves and the European Union will never interfere in the Danish labour market, and I know what. And it's all gone to the dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung dung d d d d d d d d d d d d d That's why we're gonna have to stick to what's kind of chop- and nail-fast. I just note that when you ask the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer officially, he writes: prior to a possible decision on the establishment of a common defence, there will be a need to clarify what will be more closely involved in a common defence. It will serve as a basis for assessing the need or necessity for a referendum. Why is it not just that we are holding that referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134055	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134059	I simply cannot imagine that there will be a majority in this Parliament who wants us to have a common European army. I hope so too, sir. Søren Søndergaard agrees. That is why I asked whether Mr. Søren Søndergaard can only point to one party that has proposed a common EU army. Should we get into such a situation, we will do as we have normally done when we have talked about section 20 and the Constitution, where we have had a referendum in Denmark. And I think that would be an excellent idea. But it's very hypothetical. And I just want to say that if you say yes to abolishing the defence reserve, Denmark can prevent that proposal from ever becoming a reality, because then we will have a right of veto over it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134141	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then it's the Secretary of Defense. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134156	Thank you for that, and also thank you for a debate which is actually very good to me, and I think it has been a good debate because it has been able, after all, to keep the prospects in the right places. However, I nevertheless believe that there are two points of view which are important to establish. What we are facing right now is a brutality and an abomination from Putin's Russia. Right now there are reports on the news of bomb attacks on civilians at train stations trying to get away from the disgusts, and that's just the last thing. Everyone fears that it will be even worse, and that is why, in a tragic way, what we are dealing with is a completely new situation which, of course, we should address with the greatest seriousness, and there are some of us who conclude that, in addition to stopping him as soon as possible, this is about defending our common values in the Europe that must be built on it, and I think it is important to stress here that it must and can of course Denmark contribute to it. For generations we have shaped Europe according to the values that are also widely anchored here in the Danish Parliament, and in foreign and security policy the basics are being shaped now. And when you look at some people, and that is just what I would like to dwell on a little, on a question whether Russia poses a threat to Europe, answers that, in general, 'no', that is to say that in general, 'no' and reference is made to a motion for a resolution that is being considered immediately after this case, then I think you should just remember to read it all of what it says in the motion for a resolution, and it says, for example: Defence Intelligence also states that the threat from electronic capture, cyberspionage and cybercrime directed against Danish contributions in countries bordering on Russia, Ukraine and Belarus is assessed as very high. The threat from influence and espionage aimed at Danish military contributions is assessed as high. It is not good if you leave a picture that Russia is not a threat to either Denmark or Europe, and if you want further arguments for it, you can look at the latest annual report by the FE, the Defence Intelligence Service on this particular issue, and there is a whole chapter that deals with Russia on a collision course. And one of the things that is written there, which is important for Denmark, is that Russia also has military capacity to quickly address a credible threat to its neighbouring countries. So trying to draw a picture that there is no threat from Russia to Europe and also to Denmark, because we are where we are, is wrong. It is true that the motion for a resolution is justified by the fact that there is currently no direct military threat, but it is something else and it is something other than what we are discussing now. Because this is about how we should defend ourselves in the future and here and now against the threat posed by Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134516	Thank you for that to the Minister for Defence, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134521	I would just like to ask the Minister of Defence to confirm that I specifically mentioned a number of European countries that were exposed to a specific threat, and I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that I explicitly mentioned cyber and impact activities as something where Russia posed a threat to European countries, and that I just mentioned that these were areas where we actually wanted more funds to be provided to counter it. Can the Secretary of Defense confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134551	He can do that. However, what the questioner was not told here was the other things which, of course, help to support the fact that it is not true when it is said that Russia is not in general a threat to Europe. That is the point, and that is what we have to deal with. It is basically about the values that are in play here. He has one wish, and that is to return to the world order that existed before the fall of the Berlin Wall. There is an average age in this Chamber today, and some are, after all, a little at the extremes, but if there is something common to us, it is that we have helped shape Europe for the values that are emerging after the fall of the Berlin Wall. That is all he is against, and basically that is what this is all about. That is why it cannot be said that Russia in general is not a threat to Europe. It's... it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134641	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134643	Yes, you have to be careful that it does not become a dispute over words. Because when you are a threat to specific European countries, you are, of course, in some sense, a threat to Europe, and that is why it makes no sense if I had said the specific countries, if I thought it was not a threat. But what I meant, and what I said, was that it generally does not, and we just have to hold on to that, because otherwise we are talking about something quite different in this debate. What we are talking about here is not a territorial defence; it is not something that can in any way help to counter the threat that could potentially be there, as the Minister for Defence mentions. Hopefully we will agree on that and then it is something that does not belong at all to this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134724	Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134728	The questioner is right in saying that there is no direct military threat, and that is what justifies, among other things. the motion for a resolution that we shall be dealing with here afterwards. But if the questioner will try to read the intelligence service's assessment, it says, among other things: also: Russia will be very likely to make it clear to Ukraine, the United States, NATO and the European Union that Russia remains ready to defend its interests towards Ukraine, including by military means. So, both there and in other contexts, there is a very, very direct threat to what, after all, I also think, in a historical context, can be regarded as part of Europe and elsewhere. So to say that Russia does not pose a general threat to Europe is simply not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134810	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. And then the rapporteur for the questioners asked for a final reply to the whole debate. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408134828	Thank you, President. After all, it is fun to see how subtleties can suddenly become dominant in relation to what is being said. So, technically and geographically, Russia is really part of Europe. At least part of Russia is part of Europe: everything that lies west of the Caucasus. At least that's what we learned when I was in primary school. But from there, to say that Putin does not pose a threat to our world order, our way of looking at things, there is a very, very long way to go. I think that is some boring couplings which can only derail the debate at best. I would like to say to the Foreign Minister that his speech, by the way, has, in any case, been very inconvenient and well-dissolved, and that is, of course, that we have heard so much before, when it comes to the European Union, about what things are not going to be. And in reality, that is probably where the credibility of the EU parties has the greatest difficulty. Because I am fully aware of what Article 42 (2) says. 2 no, that's 31,4, that's 42,2, and also in its full length. What is the matter is what it means and what it develops into. And can you trust it when the Foreign Minister and the other ministers say here that it will not be an EU army, it will not be an EU defence, etc.? After all, it does not take so much remembrance back in time to find other areas where the Foreign Minister and others have said what the European Union would not become and what the European Union would not have the power to do, but where it is today reality. And that is why, and in the light of that, I have mentioned and I am sorry if I have done so unclearly, and I am happy to clarify it in Article 31. Because I am well aware of what the Treaty is like today. The only thing is that it has become an argument for the yes parties that, because we are in the intergovernmental area, there is no such thing as majority voting. That's not true. Because that is what we have in Article 31 (1). 2 which is the intergovernmental area. Then it is true that Article 4 says that this does not apply today to military and defence matters. The counter-question will be: Well then, it requires a referendum in Denmark to remove paragraphs. 4, so that majority voting will apply to military matters? That's what the Secretary of State won't answer. That's exactly it, sir. Søren Søndergaard has read aloud. And then you get some song from the hot countries. I asked the Social Democratic Party, the Government, the Radical Left and the Left to give a guarantee against what I and the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens, Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Søndergaard, fears this will develop? Will you give a guarantee that if this turns out to be the case, you promise to ask the Danes again? One might almost be tempted to quote a former Danish Prime Minister and ask whether one wants to make a promise until the sun burns out, that is to say, that one asks the Danes again. And you don't want to. Then you get into some technical explanation that yes, if it is the transfer of new powers under the Constitution. Well, that's not what we're asking. We ask that if there is an EU army and if it develops into a genuine EU defence, regardless of whether, in the sense of the constitution, we are in the transfer of sovereignty, powers or not, will we ask the Danes again? And you won't answer that. That's exactly where you're failing. Because that's exactly where you don't seem to understand why the Danes have such little confidence in the EU parties. Because they just keep seeing your ministers come home from Brussels on the labour market, in the field of foreigners, in the social field, etc. etc. We didn't know that. We transferred power to the European Union in this area. There's nothing we can do about it. That is why we simply need to adapt our maternity rules, which is why we just need to change our policy on foreigners, which is why we need to change our model of agreement. Time and time again. That is why it is the EU parties that have the burden of proof. And you won't give us a guarantee that if you put the Danes back in their eyes, they'll be asked again. This cannot lead to anything else than the fact that what is happening on 1 June is certainly the first and only time that the Danes have the certainty of being asked what Denmark's relation to the EU's defence policy should be like. You have even implemented whole treaty changes, recommending that it be put to a referendum, but you said no. Now clap the trap. Now you must stand at the goal of your entire CV on the EU, and I can promise that both I and the Danish People's Party and I feel quite convinced of the other two parties I mentioned before will remind the Danes of it all. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408135323	Thank you. I would remind you that the fact that direct indictments are not to be used also applies in a majority. So you have to pay attention to that in the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Tuesday 19 April 2022. Then we have to get the rapporteurs back in their own seats, because we have to get to work on the next point, which is a motion for a resolution. You have to log in of the seats up here and log in to your usual seat. Good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408135455	The debate is open. In agreement with the rapporteurs, Mr President, the rapporteur on the Radical Left. Martin Lidegaard, was allowed to be the first on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408135506	Thank you very much to the colleagues from the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the SF for allowing me to start. This is because I have to move on to other negotiations. I am delighted to be able to express full support on behalf of the Radical Left precisely for this motion for a resolution. This is, of course, because it is an historic resolution that we have in the Chamber today. None of us had believed a few months ago that we should stand here and adopt support for a number of military contributions from Denmark to NATO's collective defence on European soil. But that's where we are. After 24 February, we have come into a different situation and, as we have just discussed, this is something that will fundamentally change the European security architecture. One of the things that will happen is that the United States will rightly demand and think that the European countries themselves should take greater responsibility for their own defence in the neighbourhood. That is fair, and it is true. It also gives us more influence on how we are going to do it, and it allows us to ascend military efforts and contributions with all sorts of other policy tools in the security policy toolbox, including sanctions, trade policy, energy policy, climate policy, cyber policy, etc. That is why Denmark must, of course, be on target. And as if that were not enough, we can add to it our long historical friendship with the Baltic countries, to which many of these contributions will go in concrete terms. I myself was in Latvia on Monday and Tuesday and had the opportunity to discuss this with my Latvian, Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues, who were deeply affected by the situation, but also deeply affected by the fact that Denmark, too, this time too, shows its support so firmly and clearly, not only through speech, but also through action, which is what we support today. So there is full-hearted support from the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408135727	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are no brief comments, so we will continue with the rapporteur and the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408135731	Thank you very much for that, President. Now we have just heard a very, very long discussion about both the defence reserve, but also very much about the war in Ukraine. There is war in Europe and we have heard from the Minister and the rapporteurs how the security order has changed in earnest. A great deal has happened in the last month and a half since we had the first resolution on a contribution to Ukraine. Putin's war in Europe is very brutal, it is disgusting, and I dream about it at night, and I actually think that very, very many other Danes do, perhaps because it is so visual on TV, and you suddenly know so much about war. Today we are going to consider the motion for a resolution B 194 to make additional Danish military contributions available to NATO's collective defence. A broad majority in the Folketing has already approved a month and a half since 24 February, when Putin entered Ukraine, that Denmark may make certain military contributions available to NATO's collective defence in response to the brutal war by Putin. In view of the serious security situation against Europe, NATO has since launched a series of further defensive measures, the aim being to strengthen the alliance's deterrent and defence profile in the current situation, to support our Eastern allies and to ensure that we in NATO are ready to address any threat to our territory. With the resolution we are debating today, the Danish Parliament agrees that Denmark can, at short notice, add additional military contributions to NATO's increased preparedness until the end of 2022, and because I am the first, I usually tell you what kind of contribution we are sending out. This is a country military contribution of approx. 1 000 people it is quite large • a sea-military contribution of approx. 175 people, an air military contribution of approx. 165 people, and then it is a support force contribution of approx. 300 people and a staff contribution of approx. 400 people and an extension of the already existing Danish contribution to NATO's advanced presence in the Baltic. Below are also cyber capabilities and monitoring that will be included. I think we are all aware in this Chamber that the security threat to Europe and the West is deeply serious. There is war on European soil and Putin's bloody war in Ukraine challenges the very fundamental principles of the European security order. Together with our allies in NATO, Denmark must take stock of the new reality, which is why it is also important, as we have always been told, that we are united in NATO, that we are united in the European Union. NATO's security guarantee is the foundation for Denmark's security, which is why Denmark must, of course, contribute jointly to collective defence. In the current security policy situation, it is crucial that Denmark and our allies are able to respond to NATO's contribution at short notice. It is our common security that is at stake, and therefore I hope that once again there will be broad support for the Danish contribution here in the Danish Parliament. At least there was it in the mention when we were consulted at that time a few weeks ago. It gives an important backlash to our soldiers, and it sends a strong signal to both our allies and to our enemies. I do not know how other rapporteurs feel, but exactly the contributions to sending people into war zones are one of the things that I take most seriously in this Chamber, and I think it is perhaps also, in fact, not to push the green button, but to send people out, so I hope, of course, that they will not get into direct confrontation. Of course, the Social Democrats support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408140141	Thank you to Mrs Annette Lind. There are no brief comments, so we shall proceed to the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408140153	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. The world situation has changed significantly over the last few months. Russia is trying to invade Ukraine because the despot Putin has great power dreams. Right now, war crimes are being committed in a country neighbouring our neighbours. There are exactly 1,300 km in the crow flies to the town of Butja, where the whole world has been able to see the most horrible pictures of assassinated civilians on the streets. That is the hard reality, and we must deal with it and react to it. A broad majority in the Folketing has already agreed on the national compromise on Danish security policy. Today we are going to deal with the government's motion for a resolution that further Danish military contributions can be made available for NATO's collective defence. We in the Left can fully support this. For when atrocities are played out so close to Denmark and other NATO countries, we must of course have increased preparedness, and Denmark must contribute without delay. NATO is Denmark's insurance for freedom, and insurance is paid in. We are now doing this by making Danish personnel and equipment available for NATO's further defensive action. That is why the Left can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408140303	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408140315	Thank you. I was in Georgia with our Foreign Minister last week and it became clear that Russia is a threat to Europe. Georgia is a country that is sympathetic to Ukraine right now. They have experienced the willingness and bloodshed that Russia is doing right now in Ukraine. There are Russian occupied territories in Georgia, where the European Union is currently monitoring Russian movements, helping civilians to the capital so that they can get medical help and where they are afraid, for whatever Russia and Putin will succeed in Ukraine, one is convinced that he will do the same in Georgia, that he will do the same in Moldova. In the Baltic, where our allies through NATO have also historically had a really tense relationship with Russia, you are equally afraid. We are shouting for increased NATO presence, help to secure the external borders and flank against Russia, because we know historically what Russia and Putin want and what they can do about it. It is our responsibility and our duty, through NATO and through Europe and our allies, to ensure their security. Their security and security are our security and security. And that's why we've increased NATO preparedness in these areas. This is something that Russia does not think is nice, and that is also the intention. The reason we do this is because we want to show that we are willing to defend our values and our allies. That is why we also support in the SF that we are now increasing preparedness further. This is needed in a situation such as this one, because there is absolutely no doubt that Russia is a threat and, although it is stronger for some, especially those who have previously felt the willingness to shed blood on Putin, especially those who have previously felt the desire for war on Russia, it is still our common responsibility to ensure that they are safe. That is why the SF is voting in favour of this resolution and we hope that we will soon be able to see into a reality and a world in which Putin cannot bully his neighbouring countries and where we stand together to ensure that he is not allowed to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408140647	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408140700	Thank you for that, President. The tragedies of Butja and Mariupol will cast dark shadows over history, as Sarajevo and Grosny have done in the past. Putin's war crimes fill us all with abhorrence, fear and disgust. The people of Ukraine are subjected to an indescribable unjust crime. We can and must do everything we can to stop Putin's war, and those responsible must be brought before a war criminal court. With Russia's invasion and the war in Ukraine, we are in the most serious security situation since World War II in Europe. The war fills us all with great concern, first and foremost for the people of Ukraine, but also for the security of the whole of Europe and the risk of it escalating into a world war and even a nuclear war. The Unity List strongly condemns Putin's invasion of Ukraine. It is an illegal and brutal attack on the sovereignty of the country and thus a clear violation of international law. The Ukrainian people deserve our help and support. Over the last few months, in Denmark, in the Member States of the European Union and in many parts of the international community, we have shown a vital will to act. In record time, we have carried out comprehensive and absolutely necessary sanctions against Russia, and we have made a necessary decision to support the Ukrainian resistance struggle with weapons, and it is no secret that we are willing to go further. We can and must continue to do more to let Putin feel the consequences of the crimes that are being committed right now. We need to do more to stop our cofinancing of Putin's war through our imports of fossil fuels from Russia. We also have a responsibility to ensure that the war does not escalate and that the war does not spread and will cost even more lives, pain and suffering and cause even more destruction. Defence Intelligence officials estimate that Russia has no intention of using military force against NATO or the Danish contribution deployed within NATO countries' geographical territory, international waters or airspace. That is what the motion for a resolution says. So there is no current military threat. The resolution also states that, together with the increased presence of NATO units in neighbouring countries to Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, it increases the risk of miscalculation and escalation. According to the Defence Intelligence Service, this is particularly true if NATO allies and Russian military units come into unfamiliar situations and, in particular, when Russian entities feel threatened or have to make decisions with very short reaction time. This seems very difficult to exclude in the current situation. The potential fatal risks must be taken very seriously. We do so in the Enhedslisten, and we should of course do so when we talk about sending troops into action abroad. Europe and NATO must, for all things in the world, avoid direct military confrontation with Russia. I think we all agree that this will have completely incalculable consequences for Ukraine, for Europe and for global security. The concern is therefore that more NATO armaments will be able to put security at risk in such a fragile situation. Right now, our focus must be on Ukraine. The war is taking a turn to the east these days. Much suggests that Putin will intensify his warfare in Donbas, in addition to Mariupol, which can serve as a corridor between Donbas and the Crimea. A development that can lead to a more permanent, deeply illegal and scandalous annexation of Ukrainian territory. However, in relation to this issue, further NATO disarmament in the Baltic does not help. We know that Putin is erratic and we must not be naive, but developments do argue that Russia does not have the ambition to extend its attacks to NATO countries, and our assessment remains that NATO armaments will not have any significance here and now for Ukraine, which is and must be our focus, and that is why we must, of course, continue to focus on increasing the pressure on sanctions and also on providing assistance to the Ukrainian army through arms aid. In order to help Ukraine, we must continue with the sanctions. We must act far more drastically and ambitiously to ensure a Danish and European independence from Russian gas. This requires concrete action to accelerate the green transition both at home and in Europe, and it also requires that it be supported by massive funding. Unfortunately, when it comes to gas, we see slow from both the government and the European Union. We would very much like the government and the other parties behind the national security compromise to have the same willingness to find two-digit billions for a green transition and thus a more sustainable security policy, as is the case with the new armament ambitions. Our top priority should continue to be to ensure a rapid and ambitious emergency plan for green armaments, and then we should not close the door to diplomacy, but should not be fooled by Putin's smokescreen. Against this background, the Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141217	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141220	Unfortunately, I think that the rhetoric of the Enhedslisten around Russia and why Russia acts as they do are both sad and dangerous. There can be no doubt that Putin also has a desire to invade the Baltic countries. If you hear the speeches he has made, it is a question of restoring the old Russian empire, which is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: are there any examples of Putin choosing to invade countries with strong defences? Or, rather, are there some examples of things becoming dangerous and he becomes aggressive when he thinks he can get away with invading countries, such as those we are talking about. Have you seen it in Ukraine? Can't Enhedslisten see that their logic in relation to this is that one can provoke Putin by actually having a defense that works is meaningless in a historical context, compared to how he has actually acted? There it is those countries that do not have a defence that he has gone after.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141316	I would say that the Enhedslisten has never, unlike the Left, had any illusions about Putin's ambition or Russia's ambitions. That is also why we have consistently advised against cooperation with Putin, including cooperation to buy Russian gas, buying Russian fossil fuels, because it was precisely to support the Russian war economy. There, of course, the Left and also the Social Democrats have historically had a different attitude and a much more positive attitude towards Putin and the ambitions that Putin has had in relation to Russia, and that is one of them. Whatever you're helping to pay the price for now. When it comes to Russia's concrete threats to the Baltic, there is no doubt that Russia is a threat to the European security structure. Nor is there any doubt that Russia poses a threat to specific European countries. After all, we have seen it with Ukraine, and we have previously mentioned both Georgia and Moldova as countries that are also under threat. However, when we look at the threat assessment by the FE in relation to the Baltic, it is quite clear, that there is no military threat, but, on the contrary, there is a risk that it may escalate a conflict and lead to accidental incidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141427	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141435	So, Enhedslisten can again give a historical example that this is about having a robust defense and a credible defense, for example. of the Baltic countries, should have increased the chance for Russia to invade? On the other hand, we have plenty of examples of the opposite, that is, if we do not show that we have a will to defend ourselves in NATO, then that is exactly what can cause him to invade. Where is the historical evidence of this about Russia being pacified by it if we do not have an opportunity to defend ourselves ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141503	But I have no doubt at all that, in the current security situation in Europe, it is extremely important for the Baltic countries that they are protected by Article 5. I think we need to recognise that as it now stands. But the point is that what the motion for a resolution says, and what is the threat assessment by the FE, is quite clear: there is no current military threat to the Baltic countries. That is what we have to deal with when we have to stand and decide whether we are going to send a troop contribution to the Baltic, and there is both a threat assessment and risk analysis from the defence intelligence services, in other words that there is no threat. On the other hand, there is an increased risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141542	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141557	Thank you for the floor. Today we are going to consider a proposal in which the Foreign Minister asks the Danish Parliament to agree that a further Danish military contribution can be made available from NATO's collective defence. There is a consent that we in the Conservative People's Party will, of course, give. NATO is Denmark's security guarantee... so simple it is... and that is why we must, of course, also contribute to NATO's collective defence. We need a stronger defence that helps to preserve the free world. We Conservatives have long been fighting for NATO's commitments, and we finally have a majority behind this, so we are pleased that we have an almost unified Parliament behind that decision. It's gonna cost money, but we can't afford not to. For too long we have been a country that has been dependent on others defending us, and now we are committed to becoming a fully integrated part of the company in which we defend each other. The world has undoubtedly changed over the last few months, more than ever before. And there is a need for the supporters of freedom, democracy and sovereignty to be united in NATO, in the European Union and in other bodies that represent those very values. Fortunately, we have decided here that we are the task of adulthood. We have joined forces on the bus against Russia's tyranny and inhumanity, and we must continue to do so with both humanitarian, economic, diplomatic and, of course, military. Let me conclude by saying that Denmark has a responsibility as a NATO member. We do not intend to run away from that responsibility, which is why the Conservative People's Party can, of course, support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141743	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408141806	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that the Danish People's Party supports the resolution. We think it is good that this is being tackled, we have been involved in the whole process here, and it is not surprising that we then decide this. It is clearly an invitation from NATO to something that we ourselves have not asked to be invited to do. But that's the way it is. The good thing about this is that there is a realism in our defence and what we really are missing. And it is really sad that it has to happen on such a background as this one, and that it has not in time strengthened the defence as much as it should have done. There is an ancient Roman proverb which states that anyone who wants peace should prepare for war, and we often neglect that in Denmark and have done so historically, including with a number of disasters in this regard. So I ask, when do we actually learn? When are we really going to learn that we must always be stronger and stronger and get the necessary new machine so that we can take up the fight and defend our own country? Now we have put in place a plan, a 2-percent plan, until 2030. We really appreciate that. It seems that money is now coming on the table for really crucial things. Yes, the wishes are many, but there is talk of the restoration of a submarine squad, that the number of conscriptions should be increased perhaps to three or four times, and that we should look at the necessary frigates to the Baltic Sea and to the Arctic and on several fighters, drones and tanks, of course, for modernisation. So where it ends in this settlement, we don't know. I'm just very excited that we get started now and sit in the conciliation circle and then agree to strengthen Denmark's defence in earnest. We have a duty to do so in relation to our own people. I have to say on the subject of military service, because it is very important to me that we get an increase there, that we are very much in a situation in which a lot of military service will also be possible in terms of integration, because it links people and young people across the country, but also, in relation to where one stands in one way or another. It was important, I remember, from when I myself was conscripted, that we just met people and young men from all over Denmark and gained a much greater understanding of what a people is. So let's hope that this happens too. I look forward to the conciliation negotiations that are coming and, of course, we can support this motion for a resolution, B 194. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408142057	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408142104	Thank you. Russia has attacked Ukraine, but Russia not only threatens the Ukrainians' right to decide in their own country. Russia also indirectly threatens the security of Poland, the Baltic States, the Nordic countries and indeed the whole of Europe. Especially in the Baltics, they fear Russia's war machine and Putin's great power dreams. Security is gone in Poland and in the Baltic countries. The Baltics and Poland only gained their freedom with the fall of communism. Those countries are now once again threatened with their freedom. Russia has broken all the principles of respecting the borders and national sovereignty of other countries. Russia's attacks on Ukraine must be condemned, and fortunately it has also been condemned both by the Danish Government, by our allies in NATO and by the other countries of the Western world. Hard sanctioning system has been put in place. That is both right and necessary. However, it is also important that fundamental principles of respect for borders and national sovereignty are backed by a strong defence together with our allies in NATO. A strong NATO is the only thing Putin respects. A strong and united NATO is the most fundamental thing if we are to hope to live in just a little bit of security. Denmark is a member of NATO. That is why we must be ready to defend those countries in our alliance that are subject to threats from Russia. For the principle of respecting borders and national sovereignty is the most fundamental thing if we are to hope to live in security. It is also a defence of ourselves and our own national sovereignty. The Danish military forces are part of the NATO alliance's common defence and, in this crisis, we must not hesitate to provide NATO material and soldiers for deployment where necessary to defend our freedom. The government wants the support of the Folketing to contribute further to the common defence within the NATO framework with part of the preparedness. We support this resolution and my thoughts go to the Danish soldiers who are to defend the freedom of our and our NATO allies. Several of you will be sent on a mission. Come home safely! Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408142313	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408142322	Russia is threatening peace, stability and security in Europe. Denmark is a member of NATO, and NATO estimates that more troops are needed and asks Denmark if Denmark will make a contribution. We'd like that. Denmark would like that. The Liberal Alliance would like that, and that is why we are voting in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408142352	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Then no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and we have reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408142405	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking you for the support of the parties and the rapporteurs. Since 24 February, most of us have focused our full attention on Russia's brutal and pointless invasion of Ukraine. The security situation in Europe had changed, and Denmark, together with our allies in NATO, was forced to ensure that we are ready to address any threat to our territory. Especially in a sharpened security policy reality, it is clearer than ever that NATO is and remains the foundation for Danish security, and already on the same day as the Russian invasion Denmark sent a strong and important signal to our allies with broad support in this Parliament with the adoption of motion for a resolution B 127 on Danish military contributions to NATO. Today, approx. Six weeks later, we have gathered here in the Parliamentary Chamber again to discuss motion for a resolution B 194, which is also about contributing substantially and in time to NATO's common defence and deterrence, to stand up, but also to contribute in good time and solidarity to the binding community of allies, to defending our territories, to the values of our democratic countries. B 194 gives us an opportunity for Denmark to make a number of land-military, sea-military and air-military contributions as well as among others. support forces and staff contributions available to NATO at very short notice, and at the same time the motion for a resolution provides an extended mandate for our existing contribution. This is particularly topical for the NATO headquarters in Latvia, which are expected to be declared operational soon. Denmark has a large share in this as a frameworkation. In addition, the proposal will include: ensure that other existing Danish contributions in NATO are ready to fulfil their tasks in the future if NATO activates additional parts of the defence plans. In this way, the government wants to be at the forefront and to do its part to ensure that Denmark can also meet our alliance commitments in NATO in the future. It is in this way that Denmark best supports our common security and security, and that is why the resolution is being dealt with in the Folketing now, and so that we can be ready at short notice if required by us, and so that we can have a good debate here in the Folketing. So far, the Danish effort has quite naturally been focused on our vicinity, especially the Baltics. With the Danish contributions already published, among others. the projected presence in Estonia, the NATO headquarters in Latvia and the planned deployment of a new combat battalion to Latvia, Denmark will expect at some point in 2022 to have more than 1,000 soldiers in the Baltic at once. This is a very significant contribution to the support of our Baltic allies and, in addition, we are making a large number of other contributions to NATO's efforts. It is an essential emphasis that we take our commitments to our allies in NATO very, very seriously, not least those who are closest and closest to us in the Baltic countries. The motion for a resolution B 194 will send an important signal to our allies that Denmark will once again deliver, but it will also send a clear message to Putin that we in Denmark are ready to defend our democratic values and our security jointly. I am pleased with the broad support here in the Danish Parliament, so that we can clearly demonstrate that Denmark again puts action behind the words and that we are showing ourselves as a faithful ally who is ready to run for it. It is about something in Denmark's interest to contribute to the alliance solidarity in NATO when the threat is close. We must not take for granted the democratic values and rules of sovereignty and territorial integrity and freedom of every country, because then we risk losing them. So, in conclusion, I would like to thank all the parties in the Folketing for their good, constructive and intense cooperation since the invasion of Ukraine began. It is absolutely crucial that the Danes, in an uncertain situation we experience, see that their elected representatives stand together to safeguard Denmark's security and the Danes' security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408142835	Thank you to the Secretary of State. Then it's the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408142844	Thank you very much for the floor, President. After all, Europe has changed. During these weeks and months and these hours, Putin sadly shows his true face. The Ukrainians are fighting bravely, and they have understood and also managed to push Russia back in several places. But the war is not over, and Putin continues and will again continue to inflict unimaginable suffering on the Ukrainian people. Denmark is therefore united with the rest of Europe and NATO against Russia's unacceptable aggression. Today, after all, we are dealing first with the motion for a resolution, B 194, which enables Denmark to deliver more to NATO. We mandate Danish military forces deployed under NATO to use force in self-defence and in the defence of Allied forces and territory. With the adoption of the resolution, we want to strengthen Denmark and our allies in NATO and also Europe's security. For the security of our allies is also our security. And with the resolution we are showing here today that we are ready to fight, including in defence, for the territories and forces of our allies, and that is what Putin needs to know. I want him to know that we stand together and that he's alone now. Russia's behaviour continues to offend. If you look at the news pages today, you can see that the outrage at the brutality and disgust in the Russian warfare has reached new heights. It's terrible to hear the Ukrainian testimony that comes with it. These are clear signs that the Russian forces have committed war crimes. It is therefore necessary for Denmark to contribute to setting a clear and clear limit for Putin's Russia: here and no longer! If you will. We must show that NATO and Europe are united, solid and clear. If Putin thought he could divide NATO and Europe, then it has to be said that he was wrong. With its unbelievable disregard for international rules of play and the rule of law, Putin forces us to act, and we cannot ignore the call of Ukraine or our allies for help. Therefore, the government will ensure that Denmark continues to take a clear responsibility for security both in Europe and in our own neighbourhoods when our democratic values and the desire for a peaceful Europe are threatened. We therefore choose to table the motion for a resolution now. The course of the crisis has shown that there is a need to be at the forefront of the situation. Denmark should not be behind if NATO requests a contribution. We must be ready to react quickly if necessary. We therefore seek the consent of the Danish Parliament to be able to place a combat battalion in the Baltic on the basis of NATO's request. Thus, Denmark sends a strong signal to our Baltic allies in particular that we are ready and also willing to contribute actively to the deterrence of Russia. In addition, the motion for a resolution will enable the Danish contributions to be deployed in NATO's reaction forces, which are on short alert if NATO so requests. It is a frigate, a challenger surveillance aircraft, an operator contribution to airspace surveillance and control and a mobile air defence radar. In addition, support force contributions to support the above-mentioned contributions include self-guarding, logistics, camping operations and also communication. The motion for a resolution also contains the possibility of reinforcing Denmark's contribution to NATO staff and headquarters. With the resolution, we will ensure that our deployed forces for NATO's advanced presence, as well as NATO's staff and headquarters, have the necessary robust mandate to carry out their tasks within the framework of NATO's operational and defence plans. There is no need to emphasise anything other than that it is serious now, because it is about our common values, and it is crucial that we stand together both in NATO and also in Europe. More than ever, the situation we are in now shows that Denmark's membership of NATO makes a difference both for our own security and not least for the security of our allies. I have said this before, and this has also been said earlier in the debate of my other colleagues of ministers who have been involved in the debate, and I think I would like to say again: there was a world before 24 February, and there is a new world after 24 February, a world that needs to shape itself around Putin's brutal attack on Ukraine, a date, 24 February, which will undoubtedly have a major impact on the perception of security in Europe, on our cooperation in the European Union and on NATO. For Russia's behaviour cannot and must not be accepted, and it is crucial that Denmark also actively contributes to showing this. So in these words, I hope for broad support for the resolution. It is important that, in this Chamber, when we make decisions of this nature, we send soldiers outside the country with sharp mandates, as is also the case here, that they have as broad a support as possible. It means a lot to them, and I want you to know that, you who are here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143442	You're welcome to the Secretary of Defense. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143449	Thank you. And thank you to the Secretary of Defense for your speech. I fully agree that this is an extremely serious situation and it is clear that, when we do not support the resolution, what I also explained in my speech is based on both the risk analysis and the threat assessment that comes from the FE. However, what I would like to ask the Minister for Defence is what the motion for a resolution says that there is also the possibility of using force to carry out the tasks entrusted to it by NATO, among other things. may involve the use of offensive force. Could the Secretary of Defense clarify what that means? In other words, does it mean that it also means that we are given a mandate to carry out actions which may well be in the interests of defence but which will also extend to Russian territory?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143538-2	The answer is no. As I understand the question, it could be a thoughtful example, which hopefully will never come true, because I assume that we all have an interest in this going down to level and that it must stop. However, if the example could be that there was a Russian air force batter from within, let us say Belarus or Russia fired at Danish aircraft over Poland, then it would be an infringement of Article 5 of NATO, and then there was a whole new situation. With this we cannot attack it, because it is precisely as the motion for a resolution says, just 8-10 lines above, where the motion for a resolution therefore concentrates on the possibility of using power in self-defence and in defence of the forces and territory of the Allies. But it'll be a completely different escalation of the conflict, it'll be a § 5 question, and it'll take God to ban it... a completely different decision in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143638	We must remember that we must not summon the higher powers under the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143646	Then I shall confine myself to thanking the President. I'm thinking it's okay. I fully agree that what we must avoid is escalating the situation. That is precisely why we have the concern to send out the troops on the basis of the risk analysis that is available. But could the Secretary of Defense perhaps try to give an example of what offensive use of force means in this context? I am glad to hear that at least we are not opening up the risk that might lie in making actions that reach into Russian territory, but could the Minister for Defence then give an example of what offensive use of force actually means, in other words, what is the mandate given in connection with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143725	That would, of course, be in a situation where, in the area outlined in what I read just now, there is a confrontation. That is what this is all about, and it is described in detail in the operational plans and directives on the use of force that apply to NATO. But basically, this is happening within the territory of our own or allies, and that is what is at the heart of it. But I think it is important for me to say that this is a step up the ladder, if you will, so this is to prepare for our forces that we send out, knowing 1) what mandate they are on, 2) that it is clear, 3) that this is a serious situation and, of course, that they must have the opportunities in the operating room in which they are now given the mandate to be in, also to use offensive force. That's what's in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143826	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143845	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408143903	Thank you. After all, there are a number of different proposals that are being dealt with here, and there is a thread going through it all, and it is based on the experience we have gained during the corona crisis and on how we can strengthen our health care and be more well prepared for the future. I do not want to go so deep into the individual details, but that is one of them. The draft law here, which should allow the Minister of Health to set out the detailed requirements for the organizational affiliation of the doctors who will have to be included in the public vaccination efforts in the future. It should be clarified that SSI has the competence to decide which authorities or private companies SSI can distribute vaccines to or not distribute vaccines to. It is stated here that it is the Statens Serum Institut that is responsible for carrying out the task in relation to cross-border health risks, and the bill provides that the SSI is responsible for the operation and management of national databases and registers. Finally, as you know, there is a ruling by the Supreme Court on patients' replacements, which means that a new and transparent practice must be put in place on how to calculate patients' replacements in the future. So these are all fine proposals that the Social Democrats support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408144040	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Socialist rapporteur. So we move on to Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408144049	Thank you very much for that, and thank you to the government for presenting this package of legislation to update some laws in the field of health. There are, of course, a number of things that are being proposed which are being changed, and I note in the hearings that that is precisely what is being said and criticised, namely that the legal procedure in this mix-up and in this cocktail may not be the most appropriate one, and I am not inclined to agree that there are perhaps a great many things that are being mixed up in this package, and I think we should look at that in the legislative process. When we come to the legislative proposal as a whole, as it is here, there are five different areas where I will not go into it in detail, but just like that will make an overflight in relation to our position on the individual components. First of all, it is a question of authorising the Minister for Health to be able to lay down detailed rules as to which doctors and organisations in specific functions or sectors could be included in the performance of a specific vaccination task, and here we have therefore, and it is not in order to destroy the good atmosphere of the previous rapporteur, a number of concerns which we will have to address in the course of the committee procedure. We are somewhat concerned that we are giving the Minister powers here to be able to take vaccinations from private suppliers, such as mine. could be a flu vaccine. In addition, we find it a little strange that we are starting to change the whole set-up about how our vaccinations are carried out before we have actually evaluated it in relation to the mass vaccination in relation to corona, and here we would, of course, be able to examine exactly what works and what does not work at the national vaccine set-up that we have today. In other words, in my view, the government is doing things a tiny bit backwards here. In other words, we are in the process of changing legislation before we have found out whether there has been something wrong and, if so, what it has been, with the way we have done things so far. The second part is about clarifying SSI's universal service obligations, so that SSI has the competence to decide which authorities or private companies the Institute can distribute or cut off vaccines and emergency products. And this part is incontrovertibly connected to the first part, since the SSI will then be able to decide to cut off, for example. private operators from delivering vaccines, and here we have, in fact, many of the same criticisms as in the first part of the legislative proposal, and we are therefore somewhat concerned about what would happen if, for example, we were to do so. the entire influenza vaccination area and the SSI would then only deliver to public authorities. We know from experience that, in order to have a successful influenza vaccination spread, availability is crucial, so it should not be too far to the nearest place where a vaccine can be obtained. In addition, we in Denmark have a great tradition of using private practitioners, pharmacies and other suppliers in our vaccine setup, which is why we just lack an answer as to why it needs to be changed before we have properly evaluated our experience from corona. So, once again, we think that things are being done backwards, and could it not be more relevant that we had some principles for the distribution of vaccines discussed, rather than just finding that the Minister and the authorities must then just lie around with and benefit according to some pre-defined criteria? The third and fourth parts are also linked, as it is a question of centralising the responsibility for data at the Statens Serum Institute, and here there is simply a need for us to go deeper in terms of whether data security is in place, and we will raise those issues in committee in order to assess whether we can support that part. The fifth part is about changing in the area of patients' compensation, so that the timing of the adjustment and remuneration in relation to compensations and compensations is moved from the due date of the Liability Act to the time of the Patient Compensation Decision, and of course we support in general that the procedures become less complicated. However, it is proposed here to bring the rate of return to 5 weeks after the decision, which will mean less interest for the victim, and even if the principal will then increase, it is estimated that patients will lose up to 2%. of their post-tax allowance. So, in the course of the committee's work at least, we would like to ask why a model is needed where the victim is suffering financial losses. We fully support the part that is about making matters less complicated, but we therefore lack an answer as to why we have to put the citizen in a worse position than before. So can I not, following on from this, suggest to the government that the relevant parties in this area, including some of those who have submitted a hearing reply, Danske Patients and others, should be invited to discuss how to bring together such a sensible model? So, overall, there are a lot of questions that we will have to have an answer to before we can at least support the bill that the government has put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408144553	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408144606	Thank you. With this bill, we are not just going to deal with one piece of legislation, but with five provisions, and they really have little to do with each other. I would like to stress that I think it is a bad thing and that it is not doing anything good for parliamentary work that such different proposals should be dealt with together, but I am still trying. The bill has five elements that intend to support vaccination efforts, clarify the tasks of the Statens Serum Institute and promote better cooperation around the Danish microbiology database, and then we also need to change the rules in the area of patient replacement as a result of a Supreme Court ruling. Firstly, the draft law empowers the Minister for Health to determine which doctors in specific functions and sectors may be involved in carrying out specific vaccination tasks, and secondly, the draft law must specify the general interest and competences of the Serum Institute, for example. in the absence of vaccines, to decide which authorities or operators may distribute or cut off in order to ensure supply. Thirdly, the bill clarifies the role of the Serum Institute and ensures the legal basis for the CDC's mission in relation to cross-border health risks, including the exchange of information on variants of micro-organisms with other countries. Fourthly, with the proposal, the Serum Institute is made the sole controller of personal data in the microbiology database. Today, they are both controllers and processors for the five regions. Fifthly, the draft law amends the rules for the area of patients' compensation so that the timing of the adjustment and remuneration of compensations and compensations is moved from the due date of the Liability Act to the time of the Patient Compensation Decision. In SF we agree with among others. Danish Society for General Medicine and also the Danish Data Protection Agency, which claims that elements related to Danes health data should be legally processed separately. Data security and the protection of citizens' health data are a recurring debate to which we need to provide good answers, and I think there are a number of points of interest in the proposal which, in fact, also deserve their own legislative proposal, but at least also a separate reading, and these are also points that I will be spending some time on in subsequent committee reading. In relation to the issue that the Serum Institute may disclose information on gene sequences and isolates from micro-organisms as well as associated personal data to national and international health actors, the SF wants a clarification which also relates to the comments of the Danish Society for General Medicine and the Data Protection Agency, which notes that the Ministry of Health has not taken a detailed position on the rules in Chapter 5 of the Data Protection Regulation, and I can see that the Ministry believes that they have done so, but I think it deserves further discussion. Sub-proposal four proposes that the Health Act should provide for the operation and management of microbiological databases by the State Serum Institute and that a review of the national biobank should also be carried out in order to determine the extent to which more regulatory regulation is also appropriate for the other databases and registers. Responsibility for health data is an important area, which also presupposes that we as citizens feel safe in the rules governing the enormous digitisation of health data that takes place, in other words from the very first heel test being carried out at birth. SF will therefore ask the Minister to explain how the Data Protection Agency's comments that the purposes and means of processing should be defined in Danish law if it is to be established by law who is the data controller for the processing is also answered. We are going to put some of these questions in the next reading of the committee, but I would also like to ask the Minister whether it is possible to divide the legislative proposal into two or three parts, so that we can also deal with the proposals that they contain here. The time is very short and, for example, I have now dealt with five different proposals just now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408145043	Thank you very much to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen and I think the Minister has noted that there is a proposal for a division. It is, of course, rational to deal with so many legislative proposals, but it is not certain that this is justified in terms of content. We'll see about that later. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left is the next rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408145104	Thank you, President. After all, this bill contains several independent parts of each other, as I believe, in principle, as other rapporteurs have also said, is a bad thing. It also makes it somewhat difficult to have a debate and a clear position on the overall legislative proposal, and it is therefore not inconceivable that it may be necessary to divide what the SF's rapporteur also mentioned. Let's start from the end. After all, the first part of the draft law deals with the discharge of vaccination tasks by doctors in Denmark. At home, we have long benefited from the fact that the practitioners are at the heart of the vaccination programme and, at the same time, we can add, for example, to a flu vaccine in the pharmacy. It is a very effective system that ensures availability for vaccines throughout the country, and that is probably one of the reasons why we have such towering confidence and support for the vaccination programme here at home. This is certainly not a matter of course, and it has an enormous impact on prevention and public health, with easy access and a doctor you know and trust. The Coronapandemic has challenged that model, and it was necessary to think new and find alternative solutions, and we did so quickly and efficiently, which has been a huge success, and there must be a great praise from here to all of you who made it work, and of course we must learn from that. The fact that I am somewhat sceptical about this part of the proposal is due to a concern that something very well-functioning will be destroyed instead of improving it. If you end up setting up regional vaccination centres in situations other than those that we have experienced over the last two years, then I am concerned about the support of the population and I am concerned about accessibility throughout the country. You go from having a lot of doctors to having few centered places. So there is a difference between an epidemic and a daily life in the country, and that is what I will be pursuing in committee. The second part is about how the Statens Serum Institute can be involved in international cooperation, and if there is something we have learned or should have learned during the coronapandemic, then it is that infectious diseases do not respect land borders and passport controls, and therefore international cooperation and the sharing of relevant data are essential for monitoring the spread of infection and the development of new varieties. Here it is important to keep in mind that there is a huge difference between sharing genome data from viruses and bacteria, which is relevant in a pandemic preparedness, and then genome data from the individual patient. But that is not the last thing we are discussing here, and we support this part of the legislative proposal. The third part concerns the universal service of Statens Serum Institut for vaccines and the like, and it is of course important that we ensure the security of supply of something as crucial as, for example, a vaccine during an epidemic, and here some concerns have been raised in the consultation responses. I also see, as my colleague from the Left has said, a link to the first part of the legislative proposal, and I also have a number of questions that need to be clarified, so that we do not put any actors and thereby the citizens of the country at a disadvantage than we are today, but that we only ensure better accessibility. The fourth part concerns the operation and responsibility of the Statens Serum Institute for various databases and registers, including in particular the Danish microbiological database MiBa, which we have all come to know and love during the corona epidemic. I think it is very sensible for responsibility to be brought together under one authority. However, it is also crucial that we do not compromise the access of researchers to data. Requests must be dealt with in good time, and here, in particular, during the corona epidemic, there has been some criticism of the SSI that they took a very long time to deal with other researchers' requests for access to data, and we must pay close attention to this. Because it is for the benefit of all of us that researchers throughout the country can work quickly and effectively. Finally, the final part is about the regulation of patients' replacements. It is undoubtedly sensible both to listen to the judgment that has been handed down and to simplify the model so that it becomes more transparent what should be expected as a patient. However, I also note that there are some concerns raised by Danske Patients and the Consumer Council Thinking, and that is something that we also need to clarify in the subsequent committee work. I understand from the Minister that a technical examination of the draft law will be called for, but the date is uncertain to me, but I will look forward to that, so that we can hopefully get answers to some of the questions I have raised here and which my colleagues have also raised in their speeches. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408145528	You're welcome, sir. Stinus Lindgreen. There are no brief comments here either, so we move on quickly to Mr Beazley's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20220408145540	Thank you for that, President. Like the previous rapporteurs, I am of the same opinion: it is a mess that we need to work together on so many proposals that have nothing to do with each other immediately. That is why my request from this House will be and we shall also be proposing that we simply divide the bill into three parts. One about the vaccination effort, one about the data processing and one about the patient's replacement. I think that these are three separate areas which should be dealt with separately. So I fully agree with it, as both Mr. Martin Geertsen, sir. Stinus Lindgreen and Mrs Kirsten Normann have mentioned that we also need more detailed treatment. I think it makes sense for us to have a technical review. If I should like to touch briefly on the individual elements, I would like to say that, in relation to the vaccination effort, I may have a bit of the opposite concern than the one which Mr. Stinus Lindgreen and Mr. Martin Geertsen has expressed himself. My concern may be whether this could lead to increased privatisation. We saw, among other things. under the covid-19 opt-in system, which was, admittedly, outside the vaccination programme. We saw extremely expensive prices when it came to leaving the task to private people rather than something that was going on in the public sector. So I want at least some kind of assurance that this does not mean a slippage that could mean an increase in privatisation. On the data side, I very much agree with the comments made by Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. It is absolutely essential that we ensure that there is a thorough safety effort for patients' data, particularly in order to achieve continued high levels of access to health care and the provision of data. It is clear that there is also some risk in collecting such large amounts of data at SSI. This creates a risk that leaks may occur, which, of course, has quite major consequences when this happens. So I fully agree that it would be very good to have a technical review, because this is an extremely complicated area. We must make sure that the concerns that may be, both from the Danish Society for General Medicine and from other consultation parties, are met or at least countered. Then there's the last part about the patient replacement. I have to say, I'm a little skeptical too. I fully agree that what has been sought is that one should have a regulatory simplification based on the Supreme Court's judgment. However, I think that what I can see immediately is that it has actually become even more complicated and that it is certainly something that will be able to mean less compensation for patients. That's why I have, as sir. Martin Geertsen explained earlier that we need to have a meeting with the parties, including Danske Lawyers and the Patient Association, so that we can clarify whether this can be resolved in a different way. I would also just like to say that I think it would be sensible to divide it at least in three, and then we can take the legislative proposals separately. And it would be very good to have a technical review, especially of the data part, but also, of course, in relation to the question of the patient's replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408145919	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408145930	Thank you for that, President. And yes, it is a mixed bouquet, which others have also mentioned. There are elements to support the vaccination efforts, clarify and clarify the tasks of the Serum Institute and support the collaboration on the Danish microbiology database. Bills authorize, inter alia: The Ministry of Health to lay down detailed rules on which doctors in specific functions or sectors may be involved in carrying out vaccination tasks or vaccination programmes. Here we may wonder a little bit about what exactly that means. For us, it is crucial that public and private actors are treated equally, so that private players can also be played. And where exactly is general practice thought-in? The bill clarifies the competence of the Statens Serum Institut for example. in the absence of vaccines, to decide which authorities or private establishments such as the Institute may distribute or cut off vaccines and emergency products to ensure the supply of public vaccination programmes and avoid vaccine waste. It is clear that it is essential to ensure that vaccine waste is not wasted, so that makes sense. The third element of this proposal is to ensure the legal basis for the tasks of the Statens Serum Institute in relation to cross-border health risks, including the exchange of information on variants of micro-organisms with other countries. That, of course, makes a great deal of sense. We have witnessed this throughout the pandemic. It is also proposed that the Statens Serum Institute should be the only data controller for personal data in the Danish microbiology database. Here is the question, also as the Medical Association among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Finally, there's the replacement part. The bill amends the regulation and remuneration rules in the area of patient replacement. It is proposed that the timing of the adjustment and remuneration of compensation and compensation be moved from the due date of the Liability Act to the time of the Patient Compensation Decision. Here the result may be that patients are put at a disadvantage than we like. Today, interest is paid from the date of the appeal to the date of the decision. It has the advantage of not dragging matters over in the regions, in hospitals and in doctors, because they have to recoup funds for the whole period of the proceedings. So the starting point must also be to follow the rules that apply to other claims for compensation in the system. But we must try to see that. In other words, we have a number of questions which we hope to clarify either through a technical examination or in the context of committee before we can go in and support the proposal. So we look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408150251	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. There are no brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408150302	Thank you. The proposal here goes far and is both about the performance of vaccination tasks, who decides where vaccines and emergency products should be sent, if we are to be missing, and then it is about the exchange of information on variants with other countries, about who has the data responsibility for information in the Danish microbiology database, and about when the time of return should be when we are talking about patients' replacements, and even if it is a bit of a mixed country trade, it is a proposal that makes some things clear and that makes it clear, and we are happy to see this in the Danish People's Party. I have to say, however, that I agree with the Danish Association for General Medicine and Danish Occupation that there should be a limit on the Minister's access to determine which doctors may vaccinate according to certain vaccine programmes. So we would like to be slightly more restricted so that it does not become a valve that the Minister is allowed to turn on easily and without restrictions, and I am surprised that the Ministry has not clarified it after the hearings. Is that something the Minister would be willing to look at now? Then there is the exchange of information on variants of micro-organisms with other countries, and most people may well see the sense of this here in the wake of the pandemic, but I would nevertheless like to make sure that it does not involve a risk that the Danes' information or their DNA data will end up in the wrong hands. In the consultation note it is also well addressed, but I would like to hear the Minister confirm that this does not involve a risk of the Danes' data getting into the wrong hands. Compared to the move in the rate of return on patients' claims, it is being done to make it simpler for patients, and I have to say that after reading the bill, I find it hard to see that it will be simpler for some people, and some of the answers to the hearings point to that. There is simply a need for a better explanation for the fact that we on the part of the Danish Parliament have to adopt something which makes patients' replacements lower and, if we do so, we must at least be sure that the patient's progress will at least be improved. So, overall, we in the Danish People's Party welcome the intention of the proposal, which is, of course, to clarify various things and simplify complex rules, but there are also some things we would like answers to before the proposal is re-examined in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408150511	Thank you for that, and there are no brief comments here either. Then we shall see if we can find more rapporteurs. No one from LA is from the Free Greens or the Christian Democrats, but there is a privateist, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408150533	Thank you very much. I have become a non-attached Member, so it has to be said that when you come as the raisin at the end of the sausage, you do not have to go through the five points in the bill. I also think there are a lot of people sitting at home who are very confused about what this draft law is all about, and it is precisely as many of the rapporteurs have said, many different proposals and where it could well have been divided up, and that is why I support the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in saying that it could be divided into three. Because there are some important things in this proposal if you're not careful. So I would like to say that, for me and for my colleagues in our non-attached group, it is important that the citizens have confidence that their data will be processed safely and properly and that, if anyone is going to use them, consent will be given to it, and I will certainly look for that when we continue working on this and some have also requested a technical review of it. We must also ensure that vaccinations are given correctly. Who does not remember the debate about how to stick the needle in or pull it out when it was that someone was given a vaccine? And some people actually started talking about that, that's probably why they got sick or got blood clots, etc. However, we have a lot of good vaccinators who do it properly and skillfully, and we have had pharmacies, general practice you name it and, of course, we must keep making sure that we have both public and private people who can support if it is that there are some who need to have a lot of vaccinations at another time. Then it is also important that you • which is one of these points • get proper treatment when you complain to the Patient Compensation. There has been a judgment, and we must take note of it, but we must be careful not to create more bureaucracy and we must ensure that people receive proper treatment. So this is a lot about the security of our citizens, proper treatment and less bureaucracy, and we must, of course, work together with other countries when there are some areas that we can see here with genetic sequencing and knowledge about it. That is the way we are becoming wiser and, of course, we must be able to do so without wishing to pass on data from people. So that is what I want to ask you, but otherwise I support much of what many of my good colleagues have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408150816	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. There are no brief comments. Then the trip has come to our esteemed Minister of Health, and he has the right to stand as a speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408150832	Yes, thank you very much. Thank you for your comments. The things that are are noted. There has also been a call, or at least the rapporteurs will shortly be called for a technical review, so let us have it. But let me go over the bill. It is quite true that there are five sub-proposals which are different. The first two parts concern the performance of vaccination tasks by doctors and the universal service of the Statens Serum Institute in relation to vaccines and emergency products. They must be seen in context, because they stem from the fact that in the future there is also a need to offer vaccination against covid-19 and other serious infectious diseases, and therefore the organisation of the public vaccination programmes must be able to support the best possible roll-out with the maximum possible connection to each programme. The supply of vaccines for the programmes must be ensured, and then we must also do what we can to avoid the use of vaccines. The vaccines are often a scarce resource globally, but also an expensive resource. It has been the case since 2007 with the municipal reform that it has been a regional task to offer free vaccination to persons covered by the public vaccination programme. In practice, the implementation of child vaccinations has traditionally been carried out by general practitioners and private vaccinators, for example. It is a matter for the Commission and the Council of Ministers to take account of the fact that this is a matter for the Member States. The proposal here maintains vaccination in the public vaccination programmes as a regional task, so there is no formal change in the overall responsibility for carrying out the task. In the case of publicly funded vaccination programmes, it is both natural and appropriate that we should seek to organise the vaccination effort in an optimal manner in relation to, among other things. flexibility, management, monitoring and effectiveness, especially at a time when public vaccination tasks due to covid-19 have had and are expected to continue to be larger than in previous years. The assessment of the best organisation of public vaccination programmes will be carried out following a concrete assessment of each vaccination programme. They are not laid down in the bill, and it is probably impossible to predict exactly what is needed and whether something should happen quickly or whether something could be planned over a long period of time. So it's about having the setup ready. That is why it is also important to point out that the proposal does not therefore cut the regions off in future from including general practice, pharmacies or other private vaccination companies in the task solution, as is done today, or through a contract. Relevant actors will be involved in the implementation of each vaccination programme and be given the opportunity to share their views on the organisation of future vaccination interventions. That's it. Then there is the proposal for the Universal Service of the State Serum Institute. The aim here is simply to ensure that there are enough vaccines for the priority target groups in the public vaccination programmes. This is one of the challenges we have faced over the last few years. In the absence of vaccines, the proposal could give priority to customers participating in the public vaccination programme, whether regional or private vaccinators or doctors in general practice. They're even. The third sub-proposal proposes to clarify in the Health Act that the Statens Serum Institute is central laboratory and has reference functions both nationally and internationally, for example. in relation to cross-border health risks. The proposal should be seen in the light of the role of the Statens Serum Institut in preventing and combating infectious diseases, among others. involves the exchange of information on micro-organisms causing infectious diseases with other countries, including countries and organisations outside the EU and the EEA. In order to ensure information about new variants for doctors and practitioners worldwide, it is necessary to share information about variants of micro-organisms, and in the same way the Statens Serum Instituts is dependent on other countries sharing knowledge about new variants with Denmark. The aim of this element of the proposal is to ensure a clearer legal basis for the Statens Serum Institute's role in relation to cross-border health risks. The fourth element is that we propose that the Statens Serum Institute should be the only data controller for personal data in the Danish microbiology database, i.e. MiBa, as opposed to today, where the Institute is both data controller and also a data processor on behalf of the five regions. By clearly placing data responsibility with the Statens Serum Institut, it is ensured that one authority is responsible for processing personal data and that it is subject to data protection rules. In addition, it is proposed that the Minister for Health be authorised at all times to lay down detailed rules for the operation and management of MiBa, including on the processing of personal data. The aim of this element here is to ensure that information is processed in a secure manner and to support effective cooperation in the use and development of MiBa. The amendments must include, inter alia: is seen in the light of the fact that the covid-19 pandemic has shown the need to be able to act quickly in relation to, among other things, the covid-19 pandemic. development tasks related to MiBa, e.g. in connection with the establishment of test certificates which have been at the heart of the fight against covid-19. At the same time, it is important to maintain MiBa's functions in relation to hospitals, where data in MiBa is of great value. The proposal envisages continuing to support the close cooperation between the Statens Serum Institute and the regions in this respect. Fifthly, some changes are proposed in the area of patient replacement. That part is relatively such a legal technical part, so I will not go into the details here. However, the changes we are proposing are due to the Supreme Court's ruling on 4 December 2020 that overruled the Patient Compensation and the Appeals Board's long-standing practice on how to determine the time of the return on the amount of compensation awarded. The judgment has meant that the interest dates for the future must be fixed subjectively and on an estimated basis in each individual recognized case. This could lead to less predictability and transparency for the injured patients, and this could lead to an increased need for these patients to use lawyers, to have professional assistance in this situation, simply because the processing and interest rate setting will be so complicated to understand that it can lead to greater incentives for anchors and legal proceedings. The judgment and the new procedure also mean that both the patients' compensation and those liable for damages will receive high additional costs for administration, and this could lead to prolonged processing times. So with this bill, we are proposing changes to counteract the consequences of the aforementioned judgment. Indeed, it is essential that the patient compensation system is transparent and predictable for the victims and that the scheme ensures easy, uncomplicated access for the victim to seek compensation for damage caused during treatment. It is a fundamental right of patients in the system that the injured person can apply for compensation in an easily accessible way bypassing the judicial system and that the injured person, unlike whose claims end up in the courts, does not need assistance from lawyers. It is also an end in itself that we ensure that the legislation is designed so that the authorities can organise the procedure efficiently and quickly and that we do not spend unnecessary resources on administration. These are all objectives which the change will contribute to achieving. These are five elements I fully recognise that these are five elements and there is a certain overlap between some, but not between all, and then I have heard that there has been a desire for the division of the proposal. Of course, it requires an amendment or that the Danish Parliament asks for technical assistance in this respect, and we can easily find a way of helping with that, that is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408151707	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408151714	I would also very much like to go on Easter holidays, but there is just one thing, Minister, I would like to say to the first third, which is about vaccination, where I find that the bill here is really about centralising something more power with the Minister and with the authorities. And you can think of all sorts of things, but what I am just a little concerned about is what kind of problem you have identified that makes you have to. I mean, I feel so bad about politics that there really isn't a real need for politics unless there is some problem out there that you want to solve. And those two proposals come a bit like a thief at night, at least as long as the government and the minister do not really show that there is a • and I cannot at least read it immediately here • some problem that has been identified with the way we have done it so far. Then it would not be more appropriate to just find out what the problem is here, and then perhaps in reality that instead of just centralising power we spent some time discussing: what are the principles that should be the basis for vaccine allocation, and who should do what and what?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408151811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408151813	Well, let us try to take that debate and, of course, we would also very much like to dive into the technical review of it. It has to be said that we have succeeded in getting our vaccination really up in gear, but it is not in relation to everything that has been done, after all, not all the vaccination elements have succeeded equally well. It has to be said that the basic covid vaccine really succeeded, really well, but when we had to re-vaccine, which was carried out in great haste, everything was taken into use and regional centres were used, sports halls and things like that, and the practitioners were also used. You used everything you could. And we cannot know, but of course we hope that such a very rapid revaccination campaign will not be needed, but that cannot be rejected. So it's just to make sure that we have the right elements in play, and what we have here is a little knob shot. So that's what this is about. It is certainly not to cut anyone off from contributing this work here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408151914	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408151918	No, but I think that the Minister himself is pointing out what is, in fact, perhaps more necessary than just centralising the power of the Minister and of the state authorities, namely planning. And I understand that you cannot pre-discount everything that happens in the future and something like that, but it seems more like there might be a need here to establish principles for how to do things, instead of just saying: now we centralize power with the minister and with the authorities, and then they just have to find out when something happens, what happens next. So perhaps it is more the principle of organisation that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408151948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408151951	Yes, but there is no centralisation for the Minister or for government authorities. It is, in fact, the regions that have had the task since 2007, which actually still have it. So it will be those who can still organize it. Then there may be an idea, when we have covid, and if there is to be at least a certain revaccination with a fourth stick, and there is something that suggests how many it is and when exactly it should be, still stays away, but in the course of the autumn is at least a likely scenario • to consider: Should you also make an offer for a flu vaccine at that time? Well, maybe it is. And that's what it's all about... doing it the smartest possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152026	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152030	Thank you. I also think that digitalisation in health care is a force in a great many areas, but it is also a serious substance, and one can sometimes be in doubt that it is when one sees the law in relation to it. Well, it's data processing of boundless patient data, both in relation to full genome, CPR registry, national patient records and other. So it's not such completely indifferent matter. That is why I am simply wondering why there is no further clarification in relation to the part of the consultation note where both the Danish Society for General Medicine and the Danish Data Protection Agency note that the Ministry of Health has not taken a closer look at the rules in Chapter 5 of the Data Protection Regulation, and the only answer given by the Ministry is: yes, we do. So, do we not have to take such a remark from the Data Protection Agency a little more seriously and understand what it is they think we have not taken seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152129	Yeah, it sounds like it. Let's do it. Now I think I'm simply trapped in the fact that I can't find that exact sentence from the consultation note. I only have one minute for that, so I can't find that out here. But that is what we are doing, and I can then promise from the platform that when we are going to have our now promised technical review, we will also delve into that element.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152152	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152154	I look forward to that too, the technical review. I was actually going to ask, as a second question, whether the Minister would be involved in dividing up the proposal, but I already heard the Minister say in his own speech that one is prepared to look at it. Then I would just like to take this opportunity to ask whether the Minister is as concerned as I am about these data processing. In other words, is it not an extremely important issue to deal with in terms of security when it is the case that we are, after all, one of the most digitised societies in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152229	Well, it's a gold mine, that is, our data. Now it's MiBa, it's about today. It is a gold mine, and the data is used to diagnose, treat and cure patients every day. And we all benefit from it incredibly, because it is the knowledge on which our healthcare is based, knowledge of ourselves, knowledge of other patients with the same diagnosis. It is really crucial that we use it, but of course also protects the data of the individual. But this is a strengthening because it places data responsibility in one place, namely with the Statens Serum Institut.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152302	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152334	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152342	Thank you. New medical devices are crucial when we talk about ensuring better treatment options, and therefore we need to have good conditions for testing new medical devices, and it is of course also crucial in this context that there is a focus on patient safety; that we focus on both technical and ethical aspects when testing equipment on subjects. It is about the concrete security of the people who participate in the trials, and it is about creating a good and secure framework so that there is confidence and willingness in the population to participate in medical trials. In other words, high demands on patient safety are a prerequisite for us to be able to research and develop new treatment in the future as well. This also applies, of course, when we are talking about medical devices for vitro diagnostics, and that is why this bill is intended to implement the new EU regulation and thus strengthen patient safety. The draft law specifically means that in future it will be a requirement to apply for authorisation from the Danish Medicines Agency in connection with medical device performance studies. In addition, more applications will also mean higher costs, among others. for the Danish Medicines Agency, and therefore with this bill there is also the possibility that the Minister for Health can set a fee which can be charged to those who want to have the equipment tested, as is currently the case with other types of medical devices. We can therefore support the proposal in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152508	Thank you. That did not give rise to brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152515	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor, and thank the government for presenting this small package to update our national laws as a result of the IVD regulation, which will enter into force on 26 May this year. We note, of course, that the IVD regulation will help to improve patient safety, and that is something that we in the Left really appreciate very much, and that will, of course, be one of them. by strengthening availability and strengthening controls in relation to the authorisation of medical devices. Having said that, we can see that this law will also mean that new fees will be introduced in both industry and regions when applying for and allowing performance studies, changes in performance studies and the issuing of export certificates for medical devices, etc. etc. in relation to IVD. There will also be fees for scientific performance assessments, where a fee will be paid for the processing of applications by scientific committees and with ethical opinion, and there I would just like to say that it is a little important for us that these fees actually become cost-related and that there is transparency in the fees so that we ensure that the fees are not higher than the costs associated with making various approvals. That is why, in the committee's work, we will be asking for it and trying to make sure that these fees do not suddenly take some sort of sky-slide, where they are going to be higher than the costs of the approval procedures themselves, so that we do not, in general, put more burdens on our businesses and regions than is necessary. But I would just like to say that I think we can ultimately support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152700	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. Then we will continue with the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152710	Thank you. Medical and technological developments have helped immensely many people, many sick citizens. Just something like hip and breast implants have given many people much improved living conditions, but not all products have kept what they promised. In this Chamber we have also discussed several of the scandals that have sometimes occurred when the products did not comply with the promises made in practice anyway. That is why I think it is a good move for the European Union to have decided to legislate on new regulations on medical devices for vitro diagnostics, says the IVD regulation. The bill establishes the legal basis for establishing requirements for applications for performance testing, reporting of serious adverse events, notification of cessation or termination of investigations, and that performance should be submitted to the Danish Medicines Agency so that the same tough rules or something that might be approximately the same tough rules as otherwise apply to medicines should now also apply to medical devices. You can only back that up. This makes very good sense and I look forward to the legislative proposal being put into practice and it has been wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152831	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152840	Thank you, President. Yes, with the bill here, the Danish legislation is adapted so that it complies with the EU regulation. The bill deals with medical devices and special medical devices for a vitro diagnostic, including application procedures, scientific treatment and related fees. This is a really important area. We can more and more use health technology, which can ensure both better treatments and better use of scarce resources in our hard-pressed healthcare systems, and both are of course ultimately of benefit to patients. Therefore, it is essential that there is a clear framework for applications for authorisation, ethical assessments and related fees. However, I also note that there are still challenges with the so-called notified bodies that can certify medical devices. This is an old-fashioned problem and it is something that we must continue to pay close attention to. With that said, the Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152941	Thank you, sir. Stinus Lindgreen. And then we continue with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408152956	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we will also be supporting this proposal. I think it is very positive that it should be highlighted. That is why I should like to take this opportunity to say that I think we could also go further down this track, in the light of everything we have experienced here during the covid-19 in relation to home tests and all the patient-related analysis equipment; that we will be able to ensure even better quality assurance there, for example. as has been done in Norway through the creation of what is called Noklus, which is responsible for quality assurance of patient-close analytics equipment. In the past, I have called for funds to be set aside in the government to enable us to do something similar in Denmark, because we have just seen that there is a huge difference in the quality of the patient-related analysis equipment being used. But I would just like to take this opportunity to urge the government to look at that again. But in addition, we will be supporting the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408153100	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408153110	Thank you. It is, of course, an adaptation to the EU regulation, as several people have said, and it is quite reasonable to have a rapid alignment of the rules to the common rules that apply in the European Union. And we also have in Denmark a large industry of medical engineering companies that contribute to our welfare and to the enormous development in the area where better and safer products are constantly coming on the market. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408153144	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408153155	Thank you. This bill is one of the more complex, so it's about keeping your tongue straight in your mouth when you have to understand that the bill is mostly about adapting Danish rights to the IVD regulation that will soon come into force. Such a regulation will have direct effect in Denmark when it comes into force. You might think so of what you want us to do. Nevertheless, these are important rules on in vitro diagnostic medical devices for patients' safety and the constant development of health care. I note that there is broad support in the consultation responses and that there are naturally also requests for clarification. They want the Ministry to comply as much as possible, because those who want clarification are the professional groups who have to work with these rules on a daily basis. That is why I also think it is positive that the Ministry is promising ongoing guidance on the implementation of the IVD regulation. Finally, it is positive that the possibility of punishing specialists who work with hearing aids for patients and who, at the same time, have interests or ownership in a specific company dealing with hearing aids is being put in place. The Danes must be able to rely on the doctors to give the right professional advice and not act in their own interests. The Danish People's Party is generally positive about the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408153309	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408153324	Thank you very much. I can at least agree with the surface, and then I would say that there is probably someone sitting at home thinking what the hell in vitro means and what that is. And that is something that is done outside the body. These may be the tests you take of intestinal bacteria or other things, reagents, etc. It is just so that it is not something unclear, but I think that sometimes we speak a language in here that many at home may not quite understand and what it is about. Normally, I am not the great EU supporter. However, I have just had such an interview on how to use the European Union and what I think is good. And some of what I think is good is precisely this cooperation on patients' rights and to ensure that you have proper media and that they are not controlled and there is supervision on them. After all, we have had several of these regulations from the European Union, in relation to the fact that we could have proper hip cups and what else has been, breast implants, which others also mentioned here. So, of course, this is an extra thing in this regulation, and we will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408153433	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. And then we are through the rapporteurs and we have reached the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408153447	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments on the bill. The reason is that there is a new EU regulation on medical devices from May of this year, and we have been so privileged to explain these concepts in relation to in vitro diagnostics; that is what it is all about: in vitro diagnostic devices. The regulation will introduce a number of new rules for in vitro diagnostic medical devices. Well, now there was an example of it, and it can also be the covid-19 test we all know about that and it can be HIV tests in relation to in vitro diagnostics, and there are new rules for it. The new EU rules will ensure a significant increase in patient safety, which applies throughout the chain, which I think we should welcome from the Danish side here. For it is absolutely crucial that patients should be safe in that the equipment used for treatment and diagnosis is a safe equipment. And that is why it is of course important that, in relation to the European Union, we have not postponed rules, as was the case with the previous regulation on medical devices. After all, we should not risk a supply emergency, which is why I am pleased that an extended transitional regime has been adopted in the European Union so that the rules gradually begin to apply to various equipment, depending on the degree of risk involved in the equipment. I think that's a smart way to do that. The regulation, which we have to implement with the bill here, is at the same time the last part of the major reform of the rules on medical devices in the European Union, and the new EU rules will apply directly in Denmark. But there is also a need for us to supplement them if they are to be used in Denmark, and that is, of course, the purpose. First of all, the rules of the Law on medical devices must be adapted, and these are, among other things, the rules of the law on medical devices. that, in future, the Agency shall issue authorisations for equipment performance studies if there is a significant risk to the patient when the sample is to be taken. In addition, national rules on language requirements for applications for authorisation are also laid down, as is also provided for in the Regulation. And the draft law also allows for the possibility of a later authorisation for performance testing, even if the risk to the patient is low when a sample is to be taken. And that authorisation can only be implemented if the Danish Medicines Agency, following a dialogue with the other European countries, considers that this is necessary for patient safety here in Denmark. A proposal to apply the provision at a later stage will also be sent in public consultation so that stakeholders in the field will have the opportunity to make any comments. And then, with the bill, it is proposed that the legal basis should be established to lay down requirements for a scientific assessment of in vitro diagnostic medical device performance studies, and it is in line with the regulation that requires such scientific opinions. These assessments are proposed by the Scientific Medical Committees, because the scientific examination of executive studies will be comparable to the scientific examination of clinical trials of medical devices already carried out by the Scientific Medical Committees. The new EU rules entail a number of new tasks which the Danish Medicines Agency and the Scientific Veterinary Committees will have to undertake in the future. In general terms, the authorities' task in the field of medical devices is financed by fixed cost charges. This is also the case with this bill, which envisages that the Board and the committees will be able to charge fees in connection with concrete compensatory measures, for example. the processing of applications. The proposed fees are intended to finance the expenditure of the management board and committees in the context of the regulation and therefore no change to the existing fees is proposed. In addition, the draft law will introduce the rules on the supervision of medical devices by the Danish Medicines Agency directly into the medical device law. So we do not have that today, so there is a change, because today the rules on supervision are laid down by the Minister for Health at all times, and then there are a number of regulations. However, it is assumed in the EU rules that there will be continued national supervision of medical devices, and that is why I think it is appropriate that, at the same time, we create transparency, predictability and overview of supervision by entering it directly into the law. In conclusion, a new punitive access is also introduced into the Health Act, which is not, however, related to the IVD Regulation. This is introduced because there has been no real possibility of enforcing infringement of a prohibition in the law on the acquisition of a company retailing hearing aids from specialists in ear, nose and throat diseases. This is not a new ban. It is merely an access to effective enforcement of existing prohibitions, which has not been the case in the past. The new EU rules will be applicable in Denmark from 26 May 2022, and so the draft law will be adopted with a view to its entry into force on that date. I hope that the bill will receive a good committee reading, and I and the whole Ministry of Health will do what we can to answer any questions the committee may have on the way. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154005	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154034	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154040	Thank you. I and the government share the intention in this resolution to look after our common building heritage. It is important that we maintain historical houses, buildings, but also cultural environments in both villages and towns, because it is unique, and I also believe that it is an attractive quality that we must safeguard. Beautiful historical facades and repairing conservationable houses help attract life and investment in city centers, and we know this is a challenge in many parts of the country. That is why I would like to point out that buildings worthy of conservation already have a special status in the Planning Act. Municipalities have a duty to designate culturally historic buildings worthy of preservation in the municipal plan and to provide guidelines to ensure the buildings worthy of preservation. It is possible to ensure conservational buildings in the individual local plans, for example. in relation to materials, the design of buildings, the preservation of building parts or the prohibition of demolition. We think that is good and right. The government generally agrees that our building heritage is an important element in maintaining settlement and business development in villages and towns around the country. The government has concluded an agreement to set aside 3.5 million. kr. from 2023-2026 to the introduction of requirements in the Planning Act for municipalities to have strategic planning for their city centres as part of their municipal plan. Here, especially municipalities with historic city centres will have to plan for the maintenance of their building heritage even more than they do today, and this is something that is currently being negotiated in the planning board. Additional tools can also be used in the Planning Act to protect our conservationable cultural environments and buildings. The government has therefore agreed, with a broad circle of parties in agreement on more life in urban centres and rural areas, that 180 million will be allocated. kr. for that purpose around the country. We are in favour of the proposal to set up a working group to look at conservationable buildings and cultural environments, and the Finance Act of 2022-2024 provides for 19.5 million. kr. to a group of experts to work on architecture policy at national level. One of the three focus points of national architecture policy will be active city centres, revitalized villages, and we will be able to look at how the building heritage can be a springboard for development and relocation. As Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen knows that there are also current negotiations in the planning board, and there we are also discussing the possibility of taking the next steps to ensure cultural environments around the country. So initiatives are on the way. The last initiative included in this motion for a resolution is to set up a tax credit scheme for buildings with a SAVE value of 1-4 equivalent to the tax credit scheme that exists for listed buildings and then a pool of 100 million. kr. At least I think it is important to remember that there are a number of demands from the Danish Palace and Culture Authority for listed buildings, both inside and outside. It acts among other things. on materials, traditional craftsmanship methods, which are often quite expensive, where the various support schemes for protected buildings must be seen in the light of the requirements to which the owner of the building is subject. Therefore, we do not necessarily believe that it makes sense to create the same pool for buildings worthy of conservation, as they are not subject to the same level of restrictions. And then it is important to mention that the proposal will include 127,000 buildings registered with a SAVE value of 1-4, and thus the administrative burden for treating applicants will be somewhat greater than for the 7,100 listed buildings for which the deduction scheme applies today. So I would like to say that the government supports the intentions, and we are discussing them in the board of law, but there are a number of things that have to be said, among other things. Mr President, this is a motion for a resolution which seeks to allocate 100 million ECU. kr. and also to enter into an ongoing discussion in a conciliation group which makes it impossible for us to support this motion for a resolution in this way. But I would also like to say at the end that I think it is a pleasure that there is much greater focus on how to ensure the strong environments that exist, cultural heritage, not just single buildings, but also street paths. There is a much greater awareness that it has a value. If we go back in time and just 20 years back, well there I remember that there was the feeling that those who, like the development of attracting shops and residents so on, were the ones who had the biggest mall, and there was such an idea that this relatively recent design would be invincible, and that the old city centers would slowly die. Fortunately, we now see the opposite: the more old people have preserved, typically from the medieval period or the industrial period, or at least from the 1920s and 1930s, the more you can retain, for example, merchants in city centers such as in Køge or in Ærøskøbing. For example, in other, smaller cities around the country like Mariager and Ribe etc. We also maintain quality in those urban environments, and I believe that this is being looked at with a very different value than was done just a few years ago, and I think that is a great improvement. I hope that we can help to maintain that. For it is also evident to everyone that if you go through Faaborg's main street, it is a more pleasant experience than it is to go through the main street in Vollsmose, and it is about architecture and how something is made and how the traditions we have had for hundreds of years, of course, also have an obvious quality in relation to the way you as a human being experience it being somewhere. So, in this way, I am quite in line with the content, but I think we have to say that, among other things. are the negotiations within the planning board which are to address it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154715	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154718	Thank you very much for your very positive statement, although the Government and the Minister cannot vote in favour of the proposal. I have great respect for the fact that, of course, we take it in the relevant negotiations. I'd like to thank you for your speech. We share views much along the way, and it is nice that you have a minister who understands and loves the cultural heritage of the urban environment. After all, it is a minister who knows about the building stock. After all, it is a pleasure to debate it in the Chamber, but indeed over at the negotiations. I can then hope that other parties will be just as positive down here in the Chamber and over in the planning circle. Thanks for the speech. It was a pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154813	Yeah, you too. It is always a pleasure when there is time to discuss how our building heritage can be maintained. There are plenty of cities where you can see the result of not maintaining it. I don't have to read them one by one; I also think it's going to hit my own hometown. But it means something to people, and I think we should keep focusing on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154835	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154838	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's statement in this exciting area. We had a meeting in Silkeborg with the Architectural Rebellion not long ago, where it was teeming with people; it was a run-in. It wasn't the municipality that had arranged it. It was in all modesty the Enhedslisten. And we were surprised that so many people were interested in it. I would like to ask whether the Minister agrees with what is stated in the comments on the proposal: the protected buildings in Greater Copenhagen and north of Kø&#x2;benhavn are favoured by high property prices, owners' high incomes and high land tax exemptions, which means that the buildings over a wide area are in good condition. It is in contrast to the rest of the country. Is that a proper description of the situation? I do not entirely agree with that, because I think there is a great deal of difference there, also over in Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408154932	Well, there is a very big difference across the country in terms of what opportunities you have to preserve protected buildings. The challenge is, of course, that if you take over a Funen binding work it could, for example. be a sullen construction, which is such a special Funen binding construction... so you need to spend an incredible amount of money on craftsmen to make the farm inhabitable at all. And if you already have some house prices that are very low in some villages, then it may be that it is not connected at all. There you can say that if, for example, the other way around is the other way around. is a villa north of Copenhagen, so the price of the house will be so high that it can easily make sense also to invest in bringing back the historical details. I am very pleased with the work that Realdania is doing in precisely buying historic buildings • This is everything from Arne Jacobsen's summer house to old townhouses and then retaining them in the historical environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155034	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155037	I just thought that if I bought myself a cheap house on Funen, I could afford to use the change I have in the bank to renovate that building than if I bought a large house in Copenhagen that might need to be renovated, which was damn expensive and more expensive than I could just afford. The proposal also says: "The deduction for maintenance costs that owners can use has fallen to approx. 25% from approx. Sixty percent, and then it's turned into an equational deduction. Has it really fallen from 60%? 25%.? And how long has it passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155116	I'm afraid I can't explain it. This is a motion for a resolution which has a little to do with my area and a little to do with the area of the Minister for Culture. I guess that's over in culture. I would, of course, very much like to ensure that Mr. Christian Juhl gets the answer in writing afterwards. But I would say that in many cities it is a challenge to find people who want to spend money on maintaining and ensuring that protected buildings are worthy of preservation. Nakskov is another example. It's an old, beautiful town with incredibly many beautiful buildings. Now we have realdania funding, and now it is not because I am going to shame them, because many others are also making an effort. But it has not been possible to maintain the buildings there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155154	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Then we start with the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155200	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Danish People's Party for this excellent proposal. In the Social Democratic Party we really welcome the aim of the proposal, in other words to take care of a significant part of our cultural heritage. It is both sympathetic, and it is wise, and of course we can also see the great value in looking after old conservation-worthy houses, which tell stories, and which bear witness to the life that has lived in Denmark for many years and generations. There is history and there is cultural heritage that is worth preserving and that we must, when we reject it, then it is also on the grounds that the Minister mentioned that this proposal must be put up in the right place and that negotiations must be held there. But there is a great deal of sympathy for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155315	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155337	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the flag again in relation to Danish cultural heritage. It's really beautiful because we have something very special, and we have to be careful about that. The Minister has said so, and the Social Democrat rapporteur has also said so. I come from Slagelse Municipality, where there are three towns, and we also have many conservation-worthy houses that we try to take care of, and there is nothing better and more beautiful than walking around in those streets because it also embodies history and history writing. We also share both the ambitions and the intentions of the motion for a resolution here, that is to say, a plan law that must be able to preserve the houses worthy of conservation, more economical to preserve them and also to set up a working group which can help to look at how we are going to help in the future to preserve these houses worthy of preservation. We share the ambition and the intentions, but as the Minister and the previous rapporteur also said, and I have also spoken to my rapporteur in relation to the Housing Committee, there is at the moment also a very fine cooperation on the revision of the law on plans, and we would like to address that. In fact, we also think that with that craftsman's allowance, if you can call it that, compared to the 100 million. kr., is a very good idea that we will work on, just as we will also get involved in a working group that will help to look at what is coming forward. So we are largely positive about it, but we must also say no to this time because there are negotiations going on in different places that take this into account. But it is a very fine proposal from the Danish People's Party, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155524	Thank you for that, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155526	Thanks for the nice words. After all, the Left is part of the board of law, and my question is now that the Left is so positive in this Chamber, whether it will also be in favour of us doing something to preserve the cultural heritage of buildings through the planning negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155548	I will certainly take it home to my housing rapporteur, who is Heidi Bank, and with whom I have also discussed it here, and I shall mention to her the conversation we have had here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155600	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Sten Knuth from the Left, and then it is the rapporteur from the SF, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155610	Thank you. I am sorry on behalf of our real rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here, but I have promised her that I will just inform the SF's position on this otherwise very fine motion for a resolution. In SF we also want to preserve the Danish building heritage, and we would therefore like to acknowledge the proposal and proposers from the Danish People's Party for the initiative, and we have great sympathy for it. For it is important to look after the unique and beautiful buildings that can be seen all over the country. However, we cannot support this resolution as it stands right now because we believe that it is necessary to first identify the need for the 100 million pot. kr., and this requires some in-depth analyses and discussions. And that is why we are in favour of setting up a working group to map out the value and possibility of preserving the conservationable and protected buildings throughout Denmark. But once the need has been identified, we would very much like to continue working with the Danish People's Party in this area. However, we are voting against it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155718	Thank you. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Christina Thorholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155729	Thanks to DF for making this proposal to secure our Danish building heritage. After all, we like our city center and the houses of older dates, which give us special characteristics and are so lovely to stay in. We have to be careful about that. And with a protected building stock of only 3,500 properties there are at least 120,000 in categories 1-4. It is the responsibility of the municipal council to designate the buildings worthy of conservation on the basis of SAVE registration. There's a big difference between being in categories 1, 4 and 9. After all, major discussions are also taking place in the municipalities in the city councils, because the city councils and local politicians take responsibility for the discussion of what is worthy of preservation. Because when you're lying there in the field 3-5, there's also a lot of subjectivity in it. We'll see about that. We have among other things. They certainly do not agree on when it is SAVE one and the other. We think it should remain a municipal responsibility, but we are interested in seeing whether the legislation is strong enough to protect our buildings worthy of conservation, for example. in relation to the protection of planetary law. Unfortunately, we're not in the law of plans... we'd like to be there, but we don't have the opportunity to influence it. If you invite us, we say yes; you must take advantage of every opportunity. However, we support the creation of a working group to map out the value and possibilities of preserving the conservationable houses, because it is a special quality that we have here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155919	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408155933	I would like to say at the outset that I asked the Minister for Culture what we should do about this proposal and then she said: it is not my table; it is another minister who has to look at it. But there is as much culture as there is housing policy in this, perhaps even more when it comes to the matter. I think it's a good idea to look at these things. As far as I remember, we are not part of the circle which is so privileged that they are allowed to interfere in such matters, but one can say one's opinion anyway. We have had municipal elections not long ago, and there we had the strange experience in Silkeborg that the town council election was decided by the housing and building policy that has been conducted in the last period. Now Silkeborg is not so old, it is almost 200 years old from the first actual urban settlement and the paper factory, but you have demolished older buildings and destroyed the area around our harbour, which most of you know, because you have sailed with the Hjejlen, and then you have built up some concrete construction that completely hides the harbour area, which may be the most beautiful of what we have left in Silkeborg. And people responded to that. There were bourgeois politicians who resigned from their party, there were even some who formed an association called Beauty in Silkeborg, and the majority of the city council changed mainly because of this policy, so that's something people care about. That's why we wanted to learn more about it afterwards. We have also had a number of people in the Enhedslisten who have participated in the debates and the big meetings that have been on this topic. We invited Jep Loft from what is called the Architect's Toppipe to visit the city. And he was so nice that he said: I'll be there the day before, because I can go for a walk around town and look at it, and then I'll give you some good ideas. And it was crawling with people at that meeting. We have such a Saturday tradition where we have an hour and a half of political debate and then we have a little lunch. And it was really exciting. He said that we should not just look at the houses, we should look at the urban environments and stick to the idea that there should be some urban environment. And then he showed some good examples of how houses that were to be renovated or rebuilt can actually be built in a nice way with new construction methods and not as the horrible concrete construction that almost all housing in Denmark is currently being built as. Some compare the present construction in most towns with that of the GDR, as they called it. But this is a really exciting debate, because I should agree with the Minister that when you go for a walk in some cities, it is a pleasure to go there, including in, for example, the United Kingdom. the old Copenhagen, but also in really, very many towns. So I think it should be a good idea to take a closer look at it. If DF's numbers match, I don't know. But we're gonna have to talk about that. Because I cannot quite make it fit, but I think the conclusions are right. I do not understand, however, that it should be an advantage that property prices were high. That means there's no more money left to renovate the building. But we can talk about that later. I would also like to have those things documented about how the development of subsidies has really been. Then I would say that the priesthood is certainly not a municipal or a state task; that is the task of the church. Well, there is a priestly residence that has been demolished south of Silkeborg, where we said: Why should it now be demolished? But it was because there had been mold in it, and if you didn't tear it down completely, you couldn't get rid of it. I don't know. But there the citizens also said in the first place: Ah, we don't want to get rid of our parsonage. But then they found out there was probably no way around it. Therefore, it is also important to retain parts of this task locally, so that the local population actually also has the opportunity to interfere in it, perhaps even if a building is to be demolished, because some drifting developer would rather make some money from having housing there, or what I know, so that they can then say that they would rather buy it. And there I would imagine that in the long term some funding could be found so that local communities can actually take over a decent home and thus maintain that it should be in the local area. For then we will have a chance that it will be a resident's house or some other common place that you look out for, instead of it being torn down and then quickly money will be made out of it. We would like to share in discussing this, if at all possible. And otherwise I would say that 100 million. kr. ed 787 kr. per building. It's not that much. This is perhaps something to be looked at if it is really to have any impact on the buildings worthy of preservation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160440	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160445	It was a pleasure to hear the personal report from Mr. Christian Juhl, among others. from Silkeborg, and my experiences are the same, and they have been the last 20 years. This is something that people really care about and that they care about. It is very interesting that it could even create a new majority, I have not heard that before, but it is fantastic. After all, the Enhedslisten is not a part of the planning board, but there are other ways of influencing it, and my question to Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Christian Juhl, a member of the Enhedslisten, which is a powerful support party for the government, is whether the Enhedslisten during the Finance Law negotiations might try to have some money set aside, a pool so that owners of conservationable houses could get a little support to preserve their buildings and thus also the environments of the cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160551	The clock doesn't get started. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I would say that it was an enterprising mayor of the Left who was crazy to let some contractors tear down the old and build up new ones that went in the bend, and then we got another mayor instead of from a known working party here. As far as the power of the Enhedslisten is concerned, I think that power could now be greater. I mean, the power over the current government is not as great as I could dream of, but I'd like to try, and I think that a pool for this could be a really good thing, which I would like to help to continue working on inside or outside. It is sometimes an advantage to be outside, for then you have the right to say your honest opinion in all contexts. But I think it might be a good idea to try to get some money for such tasks. I understand from the Minister that there are some things going on, and then we could have a little connection with the debate on the sidelines there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160653	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservatives. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160707	Thank you for that, President. Unfortunately, the rapporteur has not had the opportunity to be here today, but I have promised to convey the rapporteur's message. And it says: Thanks to the Danish People's Party for focusing on the Danish cultural heritage. We have a common responsibility to preserve and disseminate Danish cultural history, and a large part of that history is found in our larger Danish conservation-worthy buildings and building heritage, which has a special cultural value and history. Those buildings are very much helping to create the cultural anchoring for the Denmark we know. Tourists from all over the world travel after our old, well-preserved cities, and houses and buildings with stories also affect the everyday lives of the Danes. They make the hearts of the Danes beat. At least there are indications of that. Old houses make us happy... it shows a study from Realdania from 2020 that has taken the temperature of the Danes' relationship to the cultural heritage and the buildings that bear a special story. We share the wish of the Danish People's Party to update the law on plans and set up a committee of experts, which we believe should take place in dialogue with the municipalities on the designation of a number of cultural environments. However, there are political discussions with the conciliation circle behind the Planning Act on a revision of the Planning Act, in which initiatives to ensure better protection of conservationable cultural environments are discussed. And I'm sure we can get this country a good deal on this. It is in the interests of all of us to safeguard the Danish cultural heritage. In addition, we consider that the proposal will be unproportionally burdensome financial and administrative for the State and private owners of conservationable buildings. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160909	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160915	Thank you to the Conservative People's Party for your gratitude. The Conservative People's Party is, of course, in the circle of partisans, and my question is whether the Conservative People's Party will carry this positive attitude into the negotiations, so that we can get the approval of what should be said about an agreement that also takes account of cultural heritage, the building heritage. Will this be a task for the Conservative People's Party together with the Left and the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408160950	I am quite sure that our negotiators in the conciliation circle will place emphasis on this issue, because it is very important for the Conservative People's Party that we safeguard our buildings and the cultural heritage hidden in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161010	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And that is why we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's point of view. Alex Ahrendtsen from Dansk Folkeparti
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161028	Thank you, President. It's almost like going to Friday bar. Everyone is happy, everyone goes down to the hall, and then you get an item. I would like to thank all the rapporteurs from the parties that have come forward for their positive attitude to the resolution. I would also like to thank the Minister in particular for his great gratitude. I think that is actually a good idea for the draft law negotiations. I was not in any doubt, but still it was far more positive than I had expected. I am glad that all of us in this Chamber share the love of the building heritage. What is crucial for us then is that we also get something done about it, that is to say, that we become concrete. We're gonna write it into an agreement, and we're gonna get it in some way legally. Then there are the parties that are outside the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left. The Radical Left would like to join the circle, and that was the price they would be able to support the proposal. I think that price is a little high. The Enhedslisten, on the other hand, was very accommodating, and I would like to thank once again the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Christian Juhl, for the exciting story from Silkeborg. I have had a wonderful collaboration on building culture heritage in Odense with Enhedslisten. At one point, I have also cooperated with Mr. Anders Myrthu from Enhedslisten in Copenhagen, who for decades has been vividly preoccupied with the cultural heritage of Copenhagen. I know that Enhedslisten's members around the city councils are very concerned about this issue, and that is why I also hope that Enhedslisten will carry it forward during the budget negotiations so that we can have some money set aside for money needed. Sir. Christian Juhl also asked about the high basic value. So, the higher the land value, the more land tax, the more property tax you pay, the higher the property value, and the better it will be to invest in the renovation of old buildings; whereas, on the other hand, if a building worthy of conservation is only DKK 500,000. It is worth it, but it requires 1 million to be invested. kr. or 1,5 million kr. In renovation, there are probably a lot of people who will not do it because they will never be able to get the money back if they are going to sell it, for example. It's a building in the middle of nowhere. That's one of them. the major problem facing Langeland, where there are a great many buildings worthy of conservation in Tranekær. There it is difficult to find owners who want to put money into those projects, and therefore it might be good that we got a pool that Enhedslisten will carry on in the finance negotiations. I can see that, sir. Christian Juhl is back to his place in the fire of debate. But thank you for the debate, thank you for the positive attitude. I'm looking forward to the planning negotiations over at the Ministry of Home and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161342	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. I just have one concern about the items that were mentioned. I do not suppose that objects are being taken as such, it is more like the substance of the proposal that was the object, or what? In any case, I would just like to reassure concerned spectators that no items other than water are consumed in the Parliamentary Chamber. Alex Ahrendtsen Only metaphorically. ) It was metaphorical. Thank you so much for confirming that. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161412	The reason I'm having trouble with expensive and cheap houses is that the logic is that if I want to live in an old house, and let's say I had a million in my pocket I don't, but if I had it, it might be nice to say that I'll find one on Funen, which costs only $400,000 to 500,000. To buy, then I can make some of it myself, and then maybe I can borrow for the rest. I would like to remind you that we have a special scheme for sailing cultural values, namely the Ship Conservation Fund, and there you borrow the money provided by the State, you put your ship in order, you sail with it, and if you sell it to a Dane, the loan will be in the ship, but if you sell it abroad, you have to pay off the loan. That arrangement means that we have 200 lovely wooden ships sailing and lying around our ports all year round, and they are being cared for, as no other public or private person would do, because they love their ships, they sail in them and think it is a gem to have them. That is how you could have a fund to fund it when someone would like to make something out of a cheap house on Funen or in Jutland, or where it now lies, so we like inspired people to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161530	That's an excellent idea. When I was a cultural rapporteur and we were once a powerful support party, I also had some money allocated to the Ship Conservation Fund, because it is sailing cultural heritage. What you know is that use is the best form of protection, and that includes buildings. If the Enhedslisten can somehow convince the government that you could make a building conservation fund a little a la Ship Conservation Fund, that would be a great idea. I am very positive, but we may not be invited to the Finance Act negotiations unless the Enhedslisten demands that we come along, but less can do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161615	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161616	Yes, yes, I am happy to take part in the conciliation work, if that is what this is all about. I just think that there is a very good solution there, and I can then draw the attention of the DF's rapporteur to the fact that less than a month ago we actually negotiated an extra 1.1 million. kr. We agreed that something had to be done about this. It is not something that makes miracles, but it is nevertheless for a number of ships that can then repair what needs to be repaired again, and we must remember to bring the small victories with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161658	I would say that it creates miracles among designers and cultural heritageists. It's money that's well placed. So thanks for the effort, I'm actually glad about that. I look forward to the financial law negotiations and to seeing whether anything is being done about the architectural heritage in the municipalities. But thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161721	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you to the other rapporteurs, thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220408161738	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 19 April 2022. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I would also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
