ParlaMint-DK_20220225100001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 113 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on digital child protection through age verification on digital platforms). Trine Torp (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 123 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of systematic judicial autopsies during a 2-year period for all early and unexpected deaths of people with mental disorders). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 124 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the equal treatment of the penalty for the possession of signal and gas guns with other firearms). Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 125 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on supervised contact-preservation and fast-tracking arrangements for the rapid resolution of high-conflict cases). Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 126 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the age limit in order to obtain a bus licence). Carl Valentin (SF) and Rasmus Nordqvist (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 128 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on action against fracture of the sternum of laying hens). Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG) and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 129 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to lift the condition of three years' cohabitation before the 18th year of the person wishing to be adopted) and motion for a resolution No. B 130 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on giving older citizens a genuine right to care under the Services Act). Liselott Blix (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG) and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG): Request no. F 42 (Will the Minister, in view of the desire for greater patient safety in the acupuncture profession, state whether it is the Government's objective to introduce an acupuncturer licensing system so that patients can at all times be confident in contacting an approved acupuncturer and receive good and safe and proper professionally based treatment of an acupuncturer who has received the proper training of the necessary high quality?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Equal Opportunities (Trine Bramsen) has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the perspective and action plan for gender equality 2022. 12). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 31 March 2022. Members of the Danish Parliament Henrik Dahl (LA) and Morten Messerschmidt (EL) have announced that they wish to withdraw the following request to the Minister for Culture: • What can the Minister say about the government's attitude to historiography under the auspices of the State, such as that of the Ministry of Culture? The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations, as well as the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances, as well as the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances, as well as the proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances, as well as the proposal for a Council Directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations, as well as the proposal for a Directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations, and the proposal for a Council Directive on the classification, packaging and the proposal for a Directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and packaging of dangerous substances. V 26 on 26 January 2017, which states that the best way to reconciliation will be an open dialogue on history on the basis of a free and uncensored history research, and thus the Danish Parliament maintains its parliamentary tradition of not issuing judgments on historical events? • 11). The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225100233	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225100247	Thank you. The overall purpose of L 120 is to support a green conversion of the heat supply by implementing actions that we have agreed widely in the Danish Parliament with the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry etc. 2020. Firstly, by means of the legislative proposal, we will abolish the existing obligations for the connection and retention of natural gas. The current obligation to connect and remain on natural gas means that many citizens can in principle be charged an economic contribution to the gas distribution network, even if they do not use natural gas. We need to phase out natural gas from individual heating, which is why the current obligation to connect and remain on natural gas must be abolished. Secondly, the draft law proposes that the Minister may be authorised to lay down rules for heat supply companies to publish data on their CO2 The data should be made available to consumers and strengthen their insight into the climate impact of their heat consumption. So this is a good bill that will take us forward with the green transition of our heating system. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225100356	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225100405	Thank you for the floor. We support the green transition. And the tragic situation in Ukraine clearly shows that oil and natural gas have come high on the security policy agenda. It is important that we in Denmark free ourselves of fossil fuels and find green alternatives. That is why we are also pleased that last year a majority in the Danish Parliament agreed to establish an energy island in the North Sea, which will eventually be able to supply up to 10 million households with green electricity. After all, the prerequisite for the legislative proposal we are debating now is precisely that we are building green energy sources, which some of the state regulation stands in the way of, and that is why we must ensure that the green transition can actually take place, and that is what we are doing with this proposal. With this proposal, consumers who are currently subject to the obligation to connect to natural gas will be able to opt out of natural gas and choose instead to join greener energy sources. In the Left, we want fossil fuels to be phased out and we see the abolition of the obligation to connect to natural gas as an important step on the road to green conversion. We think that in the green transition it is also important that it is driven by green market forces, and that is why it is good that companies are not forced to pay for a common heating system if they want to invest instead in more green energy sources, such as renewable energy sources. heat pumps or similar. It is also positive that consumers are given the opportunity to see how their district heating company affects the climate and how it ranks in relation to other companies. This will require district heating companies to improve their climate footprint and thus increase focus on the green transition. Against this background, the Left can support the proposal and I have promised to greet Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radicals to say that they do. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225100608	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225100619	Today we are discussing both a relevant and important proposal in relation to the green conversion of the heat supply. We have a legislative proposal which, on the one hand, will abolish the obligation to connect and remain natural gas customers, and, on the other hand, it is likely that when we abolish it, we will also abolish the principle that you may have to pay for the natural gas network even if you do not use it. I think there are many Danes who feel a bit like me when they hear that we have an obligation to connect and remain to natural gas, even if you do not use it to heat your house and think: Is it really true? Yeah, that's right. And we're kind of cleaning up the Danish homes' connection to natural gas guys at home, because the short of the long part is that natural gas has always been bad for the climate. Now it is becoming expensive, and now the world situation also shows that dependence on natural gas has become a major security policy. So it is a very relevant step in part of the major transformation, which is that natural gas pine at home with the Danes is to be retired. The second part of the proposal is that we really hope to be able to engage the Danes even more in what it is for a composition of fuels being put into their district heating plant. I think that for most Danes it is just important that someone keeps track of the green transition at the district heating plant, but it can be difficult to see whether it is really the case that the CO2 reductions are being knocked through, also over at the district heating plant. By being enlightened about what CO 2 So it's also a really good move at all to make us all smarter about what that energy is that leads to the heat we get in the radiator. Overall, the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225100835	Thank you to Mrs Signe Munk. Then we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225100847	Thank you. We need to get rid of the fossil gas. Until very recently, good arguments could be put forward for climate change. Then, most recently, we have seen that good economic arguments could also be put forward to phase out the fossil gas. And then this week it has also become a security policy aspect. So there is every reason why we put turbo on the phase-out of the fossil gas. When you look at the bill here, it is a good thing that you do not exaggerate in the text of a legislative proposal, but in relation to the climate consequences you still think you are underdoing a little. It says: "The proposed disclosure and disclosure of information is not considered to have direct climate consequences. The initiative is intended to promote a fossil-free district heating sector and should therefore be seen as a supporting initiative, which can be a contributing factor in fossil phase-out towards 2030. I believe that when we come to the conclusion that it becomes clear to consumers what kind of energy mix it is and what kind of climate impact it is in the local heating company, it will increase the attention to change it. It should be the case that the information that comes out to consumers is instrumental in putting pressure on a general meeting where you look not only at the economy of the local district heating company but also at whether you can change the energy mix you have. There we then have a weakness which is also highlighted in the Green Conversion Council's consultation response, namely that when we continue to have it that biomass is calculated to be CO2 and it can then be different depending on whether imported wood pellets are transported from a distance or whether, for example, it is imported wood pellets. may be a fliss resource that is local and may just come from the local forests. So we need a tool that can nuance what climate impact is from our biomass. But we need to work on that as we go along, because I think that this publication of data to consumers, which is something that becomes visible before a general meeting, can help lift it, so that we move towards phasing out fossil gas more quickly. But then it is with the fact that you do not end up choosing more biomass, which is then a bad solution, rather than electrification and use of geothermal energy. The Enhedslisten can support the bill and we think it would be good if, in a committee procedure, we could have these things nuanced around our problems with biomass, and look at whether there is any prospect of even better information for consumers on the impact of biomass.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225101158	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, and then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225101206	Thank you for the floor. After all, this bill is extremely relevant when we are in such a crisis with Ukraine and we see that gas dependence on Putin really makes us vulnerable and we simply have to stop importing Russian gas and, at the same time, we really have to put acceleration on our green transition. We do, among other things. with this bill, by stopping the obligation to connect to natural gas, and that is also because we need to expand our district heating. But district heating is not just green district heating, and that's why this bill is useful. It focuses on how to create more green district heating. We do, among other things. by creating more transparency, by providing information on how much dependence on fossil fuels is and what is involved in district heating. This is also important for the citizens, because many citizens cannot understand what their warmth is. Even on my own road, no one had really taken advantage of the possibility of having district heating, but they kept their natural gas. Just now, due to the crisis in Ukraine, there were a lot of people yesterday who suddenly moved and said: "Well, we're gonna stop with the natural gas, we'd better jump over to this district heating. That is very good, but there are also many who are in doubt as to what district heating is made up of? Are we just gonna burn it all off? Is it just black? What's that all about? So transparency and CO2 calculation of our district heating are important, but the question is of course: what do we do with the data? How can they help us get more green district heating? But I'm sure somebody will use this good data for that, including in our public utilities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225101356	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225101408	Thank you, and also thank you for the draft law, L 120, which now abolishes the obligation to join natural gas products, and that makes absolutely sense. What is also being proposed here is that consumers should also be told, in connection with an invoice, what kind of product they really have, and then they can reflect on it. We think that's really good. When we look at the green transition, we also believe that the way of volunteering and the fact that one can make one's choices on an enlightened basis will help us to have the green transition. That is why we can support the bill. There may be a little bit on the edge of the legislative proposal, what I am saying now, but what is of course also important is that the infrastructure you need, if you are not to have gas in the future, is also present. Now I come down from Lolland-Falster, and there we just have to say that we have a lot of people who want to be part of the green conversion and establish solar cells, wind turbines and other things. Unfortunately, they cannot be allowed to set up their facilities because our infrastructure is not in order. So if a lot of people, especially on South Zealand and Lolland-Falster, choose to move on to a green solution, we actually have some bottleneck problems, but we will get them solved as well. That's why we're here. So I hope that this will mean that, in the long term, we will achieve a phasing-out of many of these gas guys, but I certainly hope that we will also take the decisions that will ensure that we also have security of supply when we move on to the green solution. Of course, many of the green solutions will also consist of getting some products that run on electricity. All in all, however, it is a sensible and good proposal that we are seeing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225101548	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, and that is why we have reached the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225101559	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. The legislative proposal follows on from the series of initiatives adopted under the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry by 2020 to ensure a green heat supply. The climate agreement speeded up the green conversion of the heat sector. We agreed on subsidy pools for the phasing out of oil and gas pine, and we have implemented tax adjustments and removed barriers in regulation to switch from gas to green heat. The high energy prices of winter and the crisis we are in now have only made it even clearer that gas in general should not be used for heating in Danish households in the future. With this bill, we are implementing two actions from the climate agreement, both of which help to make it clear to heat consumers that black heat is on its way out. Firstly, the bill abolishes bindings to the gas grid. It sends a strong signal that no one should be bound to pay for the gas distribution. Secondly, the requirements for district heating companies to publish information on their climate impact and green conversion plans are being tightened up. This makes it easier for customers to push the development of the local district heating company. When it comes to the gas network, the municipalities have not been able to impose new consumer bonds on natural gas since 1 January 2019. But well over 40%. of those who use gas for heating are currently subject to the existing obligations of the so-called obligation to connect and remain to natural gas. These rules are repealed by this bill. The bindings mean that Eveda can today charge a fixed annual contribution to the operation and maintenance of the gas network, even if consumers have changed the gas fired with a heat pump. Even if Eveda does not make use of the opportunity in practice, it is a wrong signal to send that one can be asked to pay for a fossil form of heating when one no longer uses it. The bindings also mean that new buildings can in principle be required to pay to be connected to an existing gas network, and this is inappropriate. I am therefore pleased that with this bill we are removing the inappropriate things that are in that regulation. If we had not done so, it could help to cast doubt on the direction of gas phasing out in Denmark. The second part of the bill concerns the district heating sector, which, in line with the phase-out of the oil and gas guys, is becoming increasingly important for the Danes' warming. However, it may be difficult for heat consumers and the public to obtain information on the climate impact of district heating companies as it stands today. The bill gives district heating customers a better basis for making an active choice about their heating and for pushing on the green transition. When the bill comes into force, rules can be laid down that each district heating company must inform customers about the company's greenhouse gas emissions and the company's green conversion plans. The Danish Energy Agency will ensure that it will be easy for companies to communicate clearly and easily. The Board will take the initiative to divide companies into different categories, e.g.: green, yellow or red, so it will be easy for citizens to understand how the local company is doing compared to other companies. The information on the green performance of district heating must be provided both on the companies' website and on the annual invoice, so that consumers receive the information directly in the inbox or in the mailbox. With this initiative, we are taking steps to make data on the green conversion of the district heating sector visible in an easily understood way. In the consultation of the draft law, several proposals have been made on how we can work more broadly to use data in the heat sector. These are proposals that I will take forward in the work towards an energy and supply initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225101958	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220225102015	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 1 March 2022, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
