ParlaMint-DK_20220121100132	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and Alex Ahrendtsen (DF): Motion for a resolution No. B 71 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on safeguarding the unique Danish building heritage). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220121100149	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121100202	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 25 January. First, we need a explanatory statement and it is from the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121100228	Thank you very much. That is the only item on the agenda, but it is a very important point when we consider the preparedness in Denmark. Especially now that we are in a corona situation and have been for a few years, we know what it means to have and not to have a readiness. I know that pathogen reduction, which we are going to talk about, and I would like to say that pathogen means disease-causing... probably not exactly what you have as the topic of conversation at the dining table in the families. But I think we should actually have it, because pathogen reduction is a way of treating donor blood, so that a number of bacteria and viruses are eliminated, including those we do not know about. And we've just tried what it's like to get in a virus that you didn't know. Today you test donor blood, but you only do it for certain bacteria and viruses, and some of the bacterial tests you do have a sensitivity of only 50 per cent. So there is an opportunity to treat donor blood with radiation if it is to be given to patients with a weak immune system. But as I understand it, pathogen reduction can replace many of these tests and radiations that are being carried out today, plus that it actually reduces the risk of many other unknown diseases. Many will remember the bleeding case from the 1980s in Denmark. At that time, 91 people with a hemorrhagic disease were infected with HIV through their medicines, because the medicine was produced with donor blood, which in some cases was found to originate from HIV-infected individuals. This was a tragic matter which led us to do much more today to screen, but since then nothing has happened. At the same time, we can see that many of the countries around us with which we compare have actually introduced pathogen reduction. This applies to Sweden, Norway, Iceland, Germany, France, Switzerland and a lot of other EU countries. Why are we in Denmark so reluctant to at least check whether we can improve our blood safety in Denmark? I understand that you are asking if we have a problem at all in Denmark and thinking: I have not heard of any patients who have become ill with the blood they have received recently. No, because the problem is probably that many of those who receive blood are already ill, so it is not always the cause of death. We know that there have been four serious incidents... we know this from the Board of Patient Safety... because of blood transfusions. But they're the ones we know about. I'm sure there's a dark number here too. In Switzerland, not a single case has been reported since the use of pathogen reduction began in 2011. In comparison, from 2005 to 2011, there were 16 cases of complications in Switzerland, three of which led to deaths. So this, I think, is something we need to look at in our future to have a readiness, and that is why I have put this question. I think it's important. We've had enough trouble not having an alert when the corona arrived. Are we now going to have to deal with the sudden introduction of another bacterium or virus that comes into the blood and that we are not ready for? So that is my reason for the question. I look forward to hearing what the Minister has to say and, of course, all of you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121100559	Thank you. That was the explanatory statement, and we are getting the answer right now. The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121100616	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blix for her reasons, and thank you for calling this debate on an important, complex and a very difficult subject for health care. Yes, basically it is about blood safety in Denmark and the use of pathogen reduction, and let us try to get into the helicopter just like this. If you ask the authorities responsible, and it is indeed the Board for Patient Safety, their assessment is a clear assessment, that it is safe to receive blood in Denmark, and we in Denmark have several routine measures to ensure that the risk of infection being transmitted via a blood transfusion is very low, and I can mention some of them here. All blood donors are assessed before each collection by a health care professional based on the donor's risk behaviour, disease history and travel activities, and blood is then tested for various transfusion-transferable diseases, for example. HIV, hepatitis B and C before the blood is transferred to a patient who needs it. And this routine blood test means that there is an almost non-existent transmission of bacteria or viruses with blood transfusions in Denmark. In the question, DF specifically requests that we introduce the use of pathogen reduction, or, as I have heard in the explanatory statement, at least examine whether it is possible to do so. This may also have been somewhat presented here, and one might say, if one looks at the tool that the purpose of using pathogen reduction is that the method can reduce the number of bacteria, parasites and viruses in platelets and plasma for blood transfusions. So we have to ask: are bacteria, parasites and viruses in platelets and plasma for blood transfusions in practice a real problem in Denmark? It has to be said that the Danish data show that there is no problem and that there is a very low transmission of infection via blood transfusion in Denmark. Then you can say: why not just put it in place just in case? It must then be realized that at the same time pathogen reduction has a number of shortcomings that we need to offset. In other words, if we are to use a tool, we must, of course, also compensate for the advantages that might exist, but also for the disadvantages that will then exist, and even if we actually have a better situation in view of the problem we are trying to solve. And the drawbacks are that pathogen editing reduces the effect of therapeutic levels in the blood, and this can result in an increased risk of an immune response in patients. In addition, the introduction of the method will result in increased costs for the production and greater loss of blood products. This is because for the production of pathogen-reduced blood products there must be additional equipment, chemicals, there must of course also be personnel in the blood centres, and the production of these blood products will take longer than the current method of manufacture that we use in Denmark. Then there is the question as to why a number of neighbouring countries are doing so, and there is, of course, but there is not a clear picture. In other words, there are different tools used in different countries, depending on how big the problem is, and so I think it is important to mention that there are several methods of ensuring high blood safety, and it cannot be said that all the countries around us, those with which we are usually compared, or just those that lie in our neighbourhood, consistently use pathogen reduction. In Germany, for example, pathogen reduction is used. only for patient groups with special needs and the German authorities have no recommendation to introduce pathogen reduction. Nor is it used in Finland, and Finland has thus suffered the same situation as Denmark, namely that the prevalence of bacteria in the blood components is very low, and that is what we have in common with the fins here. On the other hand, it is used in Sweden, Norway and Iceland in whole or in part, but it can be said that in those countries they do not do so, that they carry out routine tests for transfusion-transferable diseases in the blood. And that's what we do in Denmark. So it is another tool that they have put into use. We then have other tools that we have, and if you ask the Danish Agency for Patient Safety, it is their clear professional assessment that the model we have in Denmark for the management of blood helps us to have a very high blood safety. Then the question is also mentioned here in the explanatory statement that one thing is what we have now, but what about in the future if an epidemic with a bloodborne pathogen breaks out? It has to be said that the fact that we are preparing for future outbreaks and epidemics is clearly very, very relevant. If you ask the Danish Health Service, and the Ministry has made up for this discussion, they estimate that there is no current risk that such a major epidemic of blood-borne infection might break out in Denmark or anywhere else on the planet. Should an outbreak occur, it is estimated that the Danish health service has the necessary preparedness to respond in good time to prevent a potential infection. Now, compared to making a comparison, I can say that what we did at the beginning of the covid-19 epidemic, we are doing again now, namely to examine our covid virus blood banks to find out: Is there a dark number? How big is the dark count? It was relevant at first, and it is relevant again because of OMICRON. So it shows very well that we have quickly set up a system that can screen our blood banks and give a very, very accurate picture. We have done so, and we will then be able to do so again. In Denmark there are also ongoing risk assessments of new blood-borne diseases, and this is done on the basis of the early warning systems under the WHO and among EU countries. Thus we gain knowledge of it if such a potential new bloodborne disease should occur. In other words, we will then be able to establish the necessary measures that are deemed necessary at that time. When we talk about whether or not to introduce pathogen reduction in Denmark, I have to say that I am very pleased that we have some talented leaders who have provided input to this speech, that is to say, professional input, and I also think that as politicians we must have a political goal that we should make sure that there is a secure system around us, also when it comes to this important issue, but also that we base our decisions on the opinions of the experts; experts who spend their whole lives researching and working on these issues. So my recommendation is that we really lean on the professional assessments that exist, so that we have a solid professional basis. To help us with this, the Board of Patient Safety has set up a Transfusion Medical Council, and their task is, among other things, to: to advise the board on questions relating to blood and blood products. And the Transfusion Medical Council, as recently as 2020, considered that they could not therefore recommend the introduction of pathogen reduction in Denmark. They weighed the advantages against the disadvantages and thus reached this conclusion. The recommendation was based on a professional assessment by a group of experts to examine recent clinical studies in the field of pathogen reduction, and the conclusion in the expert's scientific note was that no new evidence or products were available on the market which led to pathogen reduction being recommended in Denmark. So you can ask: What do we have from experience in Denmark? We can look at other countries, but there are actually also experiences from the North Jutland Region, where pathogen reduction has been tested for a 3-year period, and there they have actually given it up again after this 3-year period. Their assessment was that the yield was far too low in relation to the costs and disadvantages associated with it. In those words, I repeat that it is the Board of Patient Safety's clear assessment that Danish blood safety is already very high. In fact, the expert expert opinion unanimously points to the fact that pathogen reduction should not be recommended in Denmark. And I think it would be wise if we listened to the professional assessments. Therefore, I would like to thank you for the question here, but the government will not be able to support a desire to introduce pathogen reduction in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121101552	Thank you, Minister. A brief comment can now be made by each of the rapporteurs. It is first Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121101559	Thank you for your reply. The minister says he can't see any problem here and now, but you have to find out what a preparedness is, and that's that you're ready for something that goes further along the way. The minister says you couldn't see the benefits of it in North Jutland. Anyway, maybe we couldn't either when we had a lot of protective equipment and a lot of plastic dishes and the stuff you need for testing. But when the corona came, we found out it was a shame that we didn't have that alert. So we're talking about having an alert. Then you can hope that you will not need the potential that actually exists. But you have it if a blood-borne virus actually comes into the country. And when the minister mentions North Jutland, they were happy with what they had and it was positive but the benefits were not there. But they certainly had the preparation for it if it was a blood-borne virus. I want to know if this is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121101706	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121101707	It is certain that we must learn from it all the time. Now we have this expert group and they came on the basis of the knowledge that they had there with their conclusions in 2020. We get new knowledge all the time. This shows the current situation to which Mrs Liselott Blixt refers. Of course we do. Well, let's take in that knowledge. We can also ask them to assess whether there are any new things to be set up as a response. That's what I want to do. It should be borne in mind that pathogen reduction can only be carried out on plasma and platelets and not on red blood cells, which represent the majority of blood transfusion requirements in Denmark. So it has some limitations. But if it is a professional conclusion which says that there would be something that would be a gain in setting it off, perhaps not to use it from now on, but so that you could be sure that you would be able to introduce it if there was a need for it, I would very much like to go into that dialogue and see if we could set something up. But I think that this requires that we have a professional assessment of it and a professional attitude to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121101810	Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121101812	Just to the end: I do not understand the adoption text of the government and the support parties, which completely pours this down the board, because it says that we do not need to look at that. I do not understand that conclusion, because the Minister says something quite different from the platform. And I think it is fundamental that, for a government which has made a commitment to the extreme precautionary principle, it is a rather risky move that we are about to embark on here. And I just need to hear from the minister about something. There are, after all, a number of countries which have introduced pathogen reduction in whole or in part. These are Belgium, Iceland, Norway, France, Switzerland, Germany, Greece, Austria, Italy, Poland, Spain and Sweden. Are those countries completely away from the window when it comes to pathogen reduction?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121101911	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121101913	No, they're not. Firstly, there is no difference at all between what I am saying here and what is our line, and it is precisely that we need to listen to the experts who have assessed this as recently as 2020 and have made a clear recommendation. And what I have said is that if there is a new attitude from the experts with what has been learned, then of course we will listen to it. I assume that applies to all parties. But I can ask the counter-question: are the experts who have assessed this as far away from the window as Mr. Martin Geertsen says? I think that would be wrong to say. I trust both our agencies and the experts who are part of this group of experts and who have come to this conclusion. Then I have explained in my speech why there are some fundamental differences and why there is not such a picture that all countries do it and Denmark sticks out. There are major differences in which countries do what. There are some countries around us that do like Denmark, and some do something else. What this must be about is what problems we want to solve and whether the tools we want to solve them with are good tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121102018	Christina Thorholm, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121102021	Thank you for a good presentation about what we do and the security there is. However, I wonder whether for some particularly vulnerable patients we are using this method precisely to ensure that they do not get any viruses and something bacterial, because I think it is clear from some of the material we have been given that it can be done for the few exposed. But I would like to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121102045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121102046	Yes, Denmark has a very comprehensive screening for viral markers, and that screening is clearly, clearly, sensible. But what is the situation, says our governments, is that if we were to introduce pathogen reduction in general, we would have a situation in which the material was weakened, that is, platelets, etc. And the problem you would then try to solve here is a problem that does not exist in Denmark, because we have other measures. So this is not just a matter for the Commission, nor is it at all what I hear from the rapporteur about seeing what other countries are doing, but also what Denmark's situation is. We have a very, very strong control over it and also strong support for our blood donor policy. And the experts therefore believe that this is the right way to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121102152	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we go to the rapporteur's round, and first it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121102217	Thank you very much and thank you for your reply. I myself have been a blood donor since I was 18 years old, and I think it is very good that we can all help some of the people who are either in an accident or have a bleeding disease or who are undergoing surgery or cancers where you need some blood and what else is. We also know how important it is that we can control the blood. But we also see at times that we have a shortage of blood donors, that we have a lack of blood to help some of the people in our hospitals. And I just wanted to say, before I actually start my speech, that if you introduced this, you shouldn't have quarantined because you've been travelling and there was malaria mosquitoes. We should not discuss whether homosexual men could give blood, depending on how long they had had a relationship and whether they were now telling the truth or not. Because it would also be cleared out of the way; then you could just give blood because it was screened this way. We weren't well prepared when the corona epidemic hit. The minister has stood here and said how well we are doing it and how super much we are testing and that we can now test the blood for immunity etc. But let's turn the time back to when the corona hit Denmark: We had finished it, I don't know if you call it a cold war warehouse, which some countries had retained, where you had protective equipment and you had pipettes and you had different things to do tests and to do those things. It's called a preparedness, and sometimes you're really glad you don't need this preparedness because it just has to be there in case something happens. What we are talking about here is not that I think we can solve a lot of the problems and challenges that we have no, it is in relation to the future. Because we don't know which viruses and bacterial forms are coming, but here we can at least find it in the blood. What we're just asking is if we shouldn't take two blood banks that could do this, because then it could be scaled up if in 20 years, 10 years, 5 years or tomorrow some gurney infected came into the country. We could settle for one blood bank. We are proposing two blood banks here, just like saying, could we not do these things? Because they were happy to have it up in North Jutland, although the Minister says that you could not see that you had any profit. There is no benefit either in having a stock of protective equipment, but how nice it is to have it if a virus such as corona comes in. I mean, if you haven't understood what a preparedness means, then I think it's a pity for the Danes who are hit. This pathogen reduction is a tool that we can put in the toolbox so we can be prepared. If, for example, we do not know what to do. If it is implemented in these two parts of the country, as we propose, 60% can be dealt with. of the platelets from donor blood, and then we'd have this capacity that could be scaled up very quickly. It would cost about a million and a half dollars. I mean, it's a small change compared to what it costs to treat people in health care, and especially what we spend on testing at the moment or what we've spent on the corona. And how many died because we didn't have something like muzzles out in home care, that is, the older people who died because they were infected? Here we could say for a million and a half dollars a year that we now have an alert that can be scaled up or down. If we settle for one place, it'll be a little cheaper. It could increase blood safety. I would like to call on the Minister here to give some impetus to the work. I know this is nerdy when you get into it, and we're laity. I also had to learn about it in relation to many things, talk to experts and look at what you do in other countries to get smart about it. So it's not something we're talking about over the coffee table that I started by saying. But it matters, and if you're a blood donor and you know what it's like when you have to answer these questions about one thing or another, you also know what it means every time you get a quarantine. So I also believe that it could add to it that we actually got some more to donate blood. When we look at some of the diseases that you can get to grips with, there are, in addition to them, in this area that we already know, among other things. Malaria and Vestnil virus. But now time has passed, although I could keep on talking, so I have to put forward the following on behalf of DF, V and KF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament recognises that blood safety can be increased by introducing pathogen reduction as a tool for the treatment of donor blood, that the technique can help to ensure a preparedness for a future epidemic, where the disease among others. Infects the blood and that the technique can potentially affect the donor quarantine rules. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to examine the possibility of introducing pathogen reduction for a proportion of donor blood in two selected blood banks, thereby ensuring the necessary experience with the technique to scale up efforts in the event of a blood-borne epidemic. • V 28).
ParlaMint-DK_20220121102814	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. We thank Mrs Liselott Blixt. There were no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121102836	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you to the authors for allowing us to become nerdy and also to spend time on something that too few people mean very much. Of course, as a patient, you have to have great confidence that you will not be sick from the blood you receive, and fortunately it is the same in Denmark today. We have had tragic cases in the past where people have become seriously ill from receiving blood. I remember myself in my early youth policy days, when one of our active DSUs was one of the hemophiliacs and fought a hard and important battle for us to be incredibly good today, where we in Denmark are really good at screenings. Therefore, it is also safe and secure to receive blood in Denmark. Today's inquiry is about introducing the so-called pathogen-reducing treatments of blood in Denmark • a technology used by several of the Nordic countries to reduce viruses and bacteria in the blood. But it is precisely for reducing and not guaranteeing that it will be removed completely. There is every reason to be aware of the consequences of this treatment. According to the health authorities, patogen treatment may impair the quality of therapeutic content in plasma and platelets. In fact, I think that the report and the conclusion that comes from the Danish Health Authority are extremely accurate. It paints a very clear picture that the way we do things in Denmark has been forward-looking and that it is safe, and I see no reason why we should not lean on professionalism. In fact, I think it is very precise, and precisely the combination of the two conditions in Denmark, that we (1) already have a high level of safety and that (2) there are some rather significant disadvantages in the treatment, which means that we cannot support the proposal. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, SF, Enhedslisten, Radical and Christian Democrats, I would like to read out the following adoption text: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Board of Patient Safety's professional assessment that the benefits of introducing pathogen reduction of blood components in Denmark do not outweigh the disadvantages. Blood safety in Denmark is already very high as a result of the thorough assessment of donors' suitability and blood testing for transfusion-transferable diseases, and it is inappropriate that pathogen reduction of blood components reduces the effect of therapeutic levels in the blood. The Danish Parliament notes that many years of data from blood monitoring show that the level of transmission of bacteria or viruses with blood components is almost non-existent and that there is a very low risk of transfusion-borne infection in Denmark, and therefore does not find any basis for introducing pathogen reduction of blood components in Denmark. The Folketing welcomes the fact that the blood banks can quickly screen bloodborne diseases, as was the case during the covid-19 pandemic, for example, and that the same is estimated to be the case if a pandemic occurs with a bloodborne pathogen. • V 29)
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103221	This proposal for adoption will now also be included in the further debate. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103228	Thank you very much. I know that this is a difficult subject, which is not always one hundred per cent of the time, so you listen to the professionals. I do not understand, however, that we cannot be involved in a proposal for adoption where we will examine the possibilities of using it, especially when we look at the preparedness, but there is also the fact that we can get other groups who are not going to be quarantined to become blood donors. You keep referring to the fact that it reduces the therapeutic effect of the blood. In any case, I would like to ask a few more questions about this, because when you see what they used in Aalborg, you have said yourself that they evaluated it for both good costs and good production optimisation, because you could use it where otherwise you normally use gamma radiation and bacterial screening. So, in the words of the rapporteur, this is not going to be looked at at at all, because that is just the way it is, so we are not doing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103335	I really think the Minister said quite clearly just now that if new understanding and knowledge were to emerge, the question could be raised again. I think the 2010 report by the Danish Health Authority is sharp. I am quite comfortable with the authorities we are taking the lead in giving us the advice and guidance, so that it is actually okay that we as politicians lean on it, especially when it comes to nerdy things that require great understanding and great knowledge of the people who work with it. I also think that the quality of the blood we supply is important, with an honest hand on my heart. I think it is essential that we in Denmark have worked hard to create screening models. I think that is a good place to stand and I think it is a good report and a good conclusion. If something new should emerge, the Minister has said that the question must be raised again; of course, whatever the nerdy subject we are leaning on must be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103439	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103440	We write 2022, and we refer to a report from 2010. After all, many of the countries that have introduced it have introduced it after 2010, so there has been no comparison. Will the rapporteur ensure that the government, the minister, is pushing for an investigation into what the countries that have implemented it can do so that a new report can be drawn up so that we do not refer to one from 2010?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103510	I have great respect for the rapporteur and I think that the rapporteur is generally extremely sharp and is on the side of the people. But I am simply not buying the rhetoric of pushing something or pressing the government. I have quite a fine and good cooperation with the Minister for Health. It is a day-to-day work that works with confidence and integrity and that is based on the fact that, of course, the things that come in from the knowledge and understanding give rise to something that I also know the rapporteur does. So I think I'll just leave that alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103543	With this praise, we thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121103553	Thank you. I am quite sure that Mrs Liselott Blixt cannot stand for the praise she has received. And I will continue to thank the Danish People's Party for having raised this question debate, which is basically also about how we deal with the epidemics of the future. Today, fortunately, we in Denmark have a very high level of blood safety, and that in itself is a positive thing. We are very good at ensuring that blood safety is at the top of the current known diseases. On the other hand, we cannot know which diseases will affect us in the future. When Corona hit us a few years ago, we didn't know at first if it would be bloodborne. Fortunately, this was not the case, it had been so, it would have required the rapid development of a test that could identify the infection, and even if it had happened quickly, it would not have been able to remove the corona in the case where it had been bloodborne. And especially during a period like the one we see now with widespread social infection, it would be difficult to draw any blood at all. This is where pathogen reduction comes in, that is to say, a technology that reduces viruses, bacteria and parasites in the blood. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, ECDC, and WHO recommend that pathogen reduction be part of the response to future epidemics, as it can reduce both known and unknown bacteria and viruses in blood. And there are, as I mentioned before, many of the countries with which we usually compare ourselves, which have chosen to use pathogen reduction to some extent. It varies from the fact that it is a smaller degree of the blood being bottled to have a readiness ready and to pathogen-reduce all blood. As Mrs Liselott Blixt also mentioned, we have had tests on pathogen reduction at Aalborg University Hospital, where pathogen reduction was used to treat platelets in the period 2012 to 2017. In their own evaluation they concluded that they achieved very good results. Among other things: they concluded that the use of pathogen reduction increased safety because the technology provided much wider protection against bacteria and viruses while reducing the risk of blood poisoning. In addition, it was considered that both cost and production optimisation can be achieved over time. One of the criticisms concerning pathogen reduction concerns the treatment of red blood cells as they cannot yet be pathogenicly reduced. However, as I am listening to, there are some very promising test results which I hope will make possible as early as next year. In addition, of course, there is also the part that concerns the economy. One of the market leaders who produce the technology estimates that if you wanted to implement it with a strategic implementation of 60%. of the blood handled in just two hospitals in Denmark, one could do it for 1⁄2 million. kr. a year. It will have some great advantages, as it would be easy and fast to scale up if the need arises and, in addition, the blood we give to the weakest patient groups will be treated so that they get as safe blood as possible. I have read that in the University Hospital in Stockholm, where pathogen reduction has been introduced, over a four-year period, 21 per cent has been saved, compared to before they started using this technology. So there may even be a possibility that pathogen reduction over time will also be able to serve themselves home. The reason is simple: there can then be a number of the other tests, questionnaire surveys and the like that you do today, which you do not have to do. Today there are quarantine rules to donate blood, for example, if you do not have blood. have been traveling in specific countries or if you are a homosexual man. Here it has been seen in other countries that pathogen reduction has enabled quarantine and questionnaires to be replaced by pathogen reduction. This has proved to be effective, among other things. To beat things like malaria, Western Nile Fever and HIV down. It is of course both an advantage to those who want to donate blood and therefore can avoid quarantine, but also to the recipients, where the risk of being left behind with a disease in the body is reduced. In this way, as Mrs Liselott Blixt also mentioned, we can avoid a new hemorrhage such as the one we unfortunately experienced decades ago in the event of a bloodborne disease again. With all these things in mind, I really think that it would be right, right and proper to examine this in depth now, in terms of what opportunities there are and what costs it will entail. And so it is not and it reflected the last questioning round, moreover, was also examined to the bottom since 2010, and since then the technology has evolved a lot, as has the cost. We support, as Mrs Liselott Blixt also said, the proposal for adoption that lies, and I should like to say that so does the Conservative People's Party. I just have to say something at the end, President. I am quite sure that the Minister has not said anything evil from up here, but I really think that the Minister should go back to his ministry and just ask a second question as to whether there is no need for a more in-depth analysis of this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to the SF, because the Danish People's Party has been on the platform. Sir. Jan Bjergskov Larsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104126	Thank you for the floor, President. Since our health rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, cannot be here today, I am the substitute. In the SF we also have to deal with the professional assessments that exist in this area, which the Minister of Health has explained so well and nerdly, and as a substitute here I will not dive into that much further. I just want to say that blood safety in Denmark is fortunately very high and that many years of Danish blood monitoring shows that there is a very, very small risk of transfusion-borne infections in Denmark. So when the Board of Patient Safety has the professional assessment that the benefits of introducing pathogen reduction of blood components in Denmark do not outweigh the disadvantages, so far it is what SF relates to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104216	There are no brief comments, and that means that we can move on to Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104232	Thank you. The Radical Left also stresses that the safety of blood transfusions is in order and therefore also on the recommendations made by the Board of Patient Safety in relation to receiving blood in Denmark. They are, of course, our guarantee of the treatments we receive, so of course we must always challenge them. Now there has been a discussion here about whether data is back from 2010, but at least it has to be said that the data of an older date, which is being problematised by the rapporteur, have been taken into account by 2020. So, on the basis of the best knowledge, I imagine that it has been decided by 2020, based on the fact that there are countries that have introduced some other forms. However, we believe that with the Danish model, which focuses on the selection and examination of the individual blood doner that comes in, on the behaviour pattern that he has had, so that he can assess whether he can give blood in the given situation, along with the screening that he does of the blood, achieves that safety. It is certainly the Patient Safety Board's professional assessment that the benefits of pathogen reduction of blood components do not outweigh disadvantages, and thus we believe that it is inappropriate to go further along this path. However, if new data are available, we would of course like to be updated to minimise risks, but we think it is essential to use this method when reducing the blood components in relation to the fact that we have high blood safety in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104433	There is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104437	The rapporteur starts by saying that we must listen to everything the Danish Health Authority says, and I do not entirely agree with that. I know that we have fought for medical cannabis and that ME patients can get treatment etc. And we are still struggling with that, so sometimes I also think it is good to challenge them, because the Danish Health Service is just some people who have certain opinions on certain things, and there may be some other experts sitting outside who think otherwise; at least we have been proved that here during the corona. So this whole thing about it being a blue stamp, just because the Health Department says so, I'm not going to go for it. I would like to know whether the rapporteur will confirm that pathogen reduction is FDA-approved and CE-approved. So we're gonna make sure this is an approved way to screen blood.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104527	I do not question that in any way, and I agree with the rapporteur that we should be critical of professionalism, because there are many different professions and there are also developments. So in this way we can also question the assessments of our own administration. In this context, however, I feel confident about the assessment we have received and the strategy. But then again: It has been assessed in 2020, and with the certainty we have in Denmark, we are a long way off.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104604	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104605	I would like to say that, as rapporteur for the questioners, I have not seen at all the proposal for adoption that the majority will vote for, which, of course, I think is a little strange. So I have to talk about something I haven't seen yet, but as I understand it, you don't want to do anything at all. Does this mean that in future it completely excludes the Radical Left from looking at obtaining information from other countries that use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104627	As the rapporteur knows Radicals, we are ready to take in new knowledge if there is a basis for it. But right now, as presented by the Board and the Minister, we have faith in the system we currently have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104642	Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104644	Yes, but it takes someone to ask for the new knowledge. And as I read the proposal for adoption, as Radical Left... [Sound Outlook].
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104701	I think something's happened to the sound. Martin Geertsen should I just start over? ) Yes, Martin Geertsen must repeat it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104702	So I get a little extra speaking time to make up for it? PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Well, and I am trying again: I just want to say to the radical rapporteur that the fact that we are leaning on and ready to gain new knowledge requires someone to ask for new knowledge. As I understand the motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left, it is not even intended to ask for new knowledge. Is it not the case in the Radical Left that the Minister could ask the Health Authority the question: What is the nature of the analyses carried out in 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104739	Until now, until we have had this debate, I have considered that the basis on which we have been asked has been updated and with professional support. I am ready to put that question to the Minister, because I think that is fair. And if the text of the adoption we have written defines it, I do not see that there are any problems in us asking that question, because of course we must be sure that this is the latest knowledge. I understand that, but if there is any doubt about it, we would be happy to put that question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104814	Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104815	Yes, for one of the questions I think it might be appropriate to ask just to give such a little public affair advice to the Radical Left: what kind of experience has been gained in Belgium, Iceland, Norway, France, Switzerland, Germany, Greece, Austria, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Spain and Sweden? I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is absolutely sure that those who have been sitting and working on it have gained experience from the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104841	As I started by saying, we're leaning on the professional assessment that's there. We're not sure about that, because we can't be. This is not so clearly included in the reporting, and in this way it can be said that what the question may challenge is to what extent the impact has been considered in the other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104902	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121104917	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to Mrs Liselott Blix for raising this question debate. I think it is quite interesting, because it is not a subject I have dealt with in the past at all. This gives me an opportunity to do so. I can hear that I already have some doubts, because I do not quite know whether to pronounce it on the patho gene on the train, but that is always the case when you throw yourself on new topics, you always get a little bit smarter than that. But I think there are certainly some interesting perspectives in it; and I have also been able to read what is being done in other countries. When we support the adoption text that the Socialist rapporteur read out, it is precisely because it is the recommendation that has come from both the Board for Patient Safety and from the Danish Health Authority. I fully understand that these positions can be challenged. Mrs Liselot Blixt has already pointed this out, and that is also true. We have done so in the past both in relation to ME treatment, we have done so in relation to medical cannabis, and we have also done so in relation to the right to perform spinal manipulations, so that it is no longer exclusively reserved for doctors, but that physiotherapists can also do so. So it's not because it's a barrier to it. But with the recommendation from the Board for Patient Safety and the Danish Health Authority, I do not feel sufficiently convinced that this is just something we can go in to say that this is what we need to do. That is precisely why we are leaning on the recommendation that comes from the authorities here. But that does not rule out the possibility that there may be some prospects in it, and I am also not opposed to the fact that this is something that we should have examined further, in other words what prospects might be in relation to it. And I actually think that some of what might be interesting is precisely the question of quarantine rules, as Mr. Martin Geertsen also left. Now it has been allowed for men who have sex with men to be able to donate blood, but there is still a quarantine on, I think it is 4 months, and therefore it could be interesting if it could be a tool that could be used in that context. I would just like to say that this would not be the only way to solve that problem, but that could also be done in other ways. But it is clear that if it is something that can help to remedy that problem, then I think we should ask more questions about it. However, as I said, this can also be solved in other ways than by pathogen-reducing treatment of the blood. But, in general terms, we cannot support this because there is still no recommendation from the authorities in relation to it; but if there are some perspectives in relation to the other and also in relation to protection against future viruses, we have to look at it on an ongoing basis. But it also requires a new knowledge. And I would just like to say there to anticipate what Mr. Martin Geertsen might ask if he is not allowed to do so, he is very happy that when you do not use it in Denmark, it is because you use other methods. It is not, of course, because it is rejected that it will be dangerous to use or that it cannot be used; it is alone because it is said that with the safety approach we have in Denmark, this issue is solved in other ways, and therefore it is not recommended to use pathogen-reducing treatment. But it is possible that there may be some perspectives in it; I am, in fact, open to us having a look at that afterwards. However, as it is right now, I believe that we must listen to the recommendation from the health authorities, which is why we also support the text of the adoption which the Socialist rapporteur read out earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105305	Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105307	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur, also for the openness I know there is in favour of the proposal, and I know that I have put a sprout in the soil with the Enhedslisten, which will be grown a little. Now the rapporteur himself is from North Jutland, why not try to get hold of some of those who just spoke in connection with having it at Aalborg University Hospital? The evaluation itself states that the project achieved increased blood safety, that pathogen reduction could replace bacterial screening and gamma radiation, and that, in time, both cost and productivity optimisation had been achieved, although the Minister said it was costly. These are two conflicting things, and I think that if you are now a North Jutlander, it might be that you should dig a shovel deeper, and I would like to ask whether the rapporteur will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105404	I would always like to dig a spade stick deeper, whether the experience came from North Jutland or any other region of Denmark, but it is always a little interesting when there is an evaluation which is used for both arguments so that you do not have to introduce it and for you to introduce it. But when there is an evaluation from North Jutland, I assume that it is also some of what has been taken into account in relation to the Board of Patient Safety and the Danish Health Authority's assessment of the use of pathogen treatment. That is what we have pilot schemes and ex post evaluations for. So it is clear that I assume this is part of the Danish Health Authority and the Board for Patient Safety Assessment, but of course we have to follow up on the experiences that are from other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105449	And as the rapporteur foresaw, sir. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105452	Yes, and now Mr. Peder Hvelplund, the course of events. So I'm gonna ask you something else. I just want to read the adoption text on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservative Parliament to which it says: "The Danish Parliament recognises that blood safety can be increased by introducing pathogen reduction as a tool for the treatment of donor blood, that the technique can help to ensure preparedness for a future epidemic, where the disease among others. Infects the blood and that the technique can potentially affect the donor quarantine rules. The Danish Parliament instructs the Government to examine the possibility of introducing pathogen reduction for a proportion of donor blood in two selected blood banks, thereby ensuring the necessary experience with the technique to scale up efforts in the event of a blood-borne epidemic. ▪ When I hear Mr. Knox... Peder Hvelplund, it seems almost as if he agrees with what it says here. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he has regretted that he has agreed to the red text of adoption, because he can quickly bring his vote into line with what is actually in the text of the adoption. That's just the opportunity I'd like to give to Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105552	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105553	I would just like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Martin Geertsen for the opportunity to change possible mistakes. That is very kind, but I would now like to say that in this case I do not think it is a mistake because I do not want to impose on anyone that we start doing something as long as the authorities do not recommend it. It is not because we would not be able to do so in another case, but here I do not feel sure enough reason to say that what the Board of Management for Patient Safety and what the Danish Health Authority says and recommends, we should not. But I am quite open to the fact that we can challenge the rulers on it and we can ask questions about it, and so it is possible that we can then come to a different conclusion later on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105638	Sir. Martin Geertsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105640	I'm sorry, but it's just that there was a reason for me to read that text to mr. Peder Hvelplund, and that is that there among others. states that the Folketing instructs the government to investigate the possibility of introducing pathogen reduction, etc. etc. What is really so frightening about the fact that we are ordering the government to investigate something?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105655	However, if the rapporteur had listened, there is nothing I have said in my rapporteur's speech, as in the text we have written here which prevents us from doing so. So I can offer Mr. Martin Geertsen the same deed as Mr. Martin Geertsen offered me earlier: that he also has the opportunity to endorse the text of the adoption that we have to lay down, and then we can jointly examine the basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105719	Then I almost feel called to say that we will only vote on it on Tuesday, so there is plenty of time to consider it. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why we are a little back at the starting point, namely the Minister for Health. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121105745	Thank you, and thank you very much for a very, very interesting debate on a very relevant and important subject. It has been a pleasure to participate in it and also to listen to it. There are a few things I need to highlight at least here in my conclusion. It is first of all that we in Denmark do several different things: there are several things happening to reduce the risk we have been talking about, namely the risk of transmission of infection via blood, and many years of Danish data show that transmission of bacteria or viruses with blood components is almost non-existent in this country. There are some things we do and that other countries do not. There have been some rapporteurs who have read out a number of other countries; they have read out those who do so, but they have not read out those countries that do not. However, those who do so have not introduced and cannot or will not for various reasons make use of the elements that Denmark can then make use of. Among other things: We in Denmark make a thorough selection of all donors on the basis of among others. disease behavior and travel activity. Blood samples are then taken and transfusion-transferable diseases such as HIV and hepatitis B and C are tested. Blood samples are eventually grown for the growth of bacteria and are followed throughout the hospital system until platelets are given to the patient. It is an option that you do not have in many other countries. So that means that there are some things that we can do in Denmark and that you have more difficulty doing in other countries, and because Denmark is taking these measures, among other things. tests for transfusion-transferable diseases, it is therefore the professional assessment that the potential of introducing pathogen reduction is not the same as it is in other countries. Some countries have been mentioned here, Sweden, Norway and Iceland, and blood is not being tested for transmissible diseases. That's the one element here. The second point I would like to make is the question of what kind of professional data we are leaning on, and there is the fact that the Board for Patient Safety thus has this expert group under the Transfusion Medical Council. The group of experts was set up in 2020 and their task was to see if the report that was left from 2010 which was called the Pathological Reduction of Blood Components Act continued to apply. Our main experts were represented in the working group, and I am aware that there has been no discussion as to whether it was the wrong experts who were involved. They reviewed the representative scientific publications and reports that have been published since 2010 and until 2020 in order to assess whether there is new evidence and perhaps also new products............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is why we have also said that we have got it professionally, and if there is a professional attitude and that is another result that comes there, we will be fully aware of it, and if they say in five years or ten years or tomorrow that we now have a situation, a product or a knowledge that prevails, we will, of course, be sensitive to it; that is clear. However, I think it is important that we, as politicians, say to our governments that they must ensure that we have as good a setup as possible, as safe as possible, and use the tools necessary for us to have it. In relation to what tools we need, we must therefore, I think, listen to health care. And this is not an old report, after all, 2010 was a few years ago, but in 2020 it was assessed and held up against the new research and the new products that had come since then. In addition, the various advice from the WHO and other international organisations has also been highlighted, and it is the case that their advice has to go against the health systems they advise. Some health systems, which I mentioned, have much, much more difficulty in having the controls and tests, etc. than we have in Denmark, and that is why it is always the case that we have to translate the general advice into a national context, and that is also what our governments do. I would like to say that I think this is an excellent debate and I look forward to continuing to work on it, but my recommendation is that we do not go in and impose anything on any government or send a signal that we must now start to introduce it here. I think it is crucial that the assessments should be based on the professional basis, and that is where we are now, and I think we should continue with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110318	There is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110320	Thank you very much. I hope that there are more people who think this is interesting, because this is not just about how we do it today. It's about the future. It's an alert we need to look at. I hope that I have made the Minister interested in this, perhaps also in returning to that committee. For I would like to know: What questions are they working on? Are they working on some questions about how it works today or how we can ensure that we have a readiness in the future? Then something puzzles me. Well, we have had four serious incidents by 2020 that we know about. It's something you say: Well, it's nothing, it doesn't matter. And then you mention some disease groups that we screen for, but all of a sudden there can be a disease that we don't screen for, just like with HIV. In other words, will the Minister take it with him and try to think about it like this before nighttime, so think: what can I do to see if we have the preparedness to do so, so that on the day of the illness, I can say that I, as Minister, actually got this going?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110424	Yes, well, I will certainly think about it with good colleagues, and I am sure the rapporteur will. But I do not think it is necessary to do so in order to say: I did it as a minister or I did it as rapporteur. I think we have to say that we really must make an effort to listen to our governments when it comes to such a high level of professionalism. These are very, very professional assessments. One might well say: if it is an extra security, why not do so? But now we have had the debate today, where we have delved into the assessments that are there, and one can say: well, there are not only advantages in introducing this, there will also be some disadvantages where we stand stronger in Denmark by not doing so. The professional assessment may change. It can happen in Denmark, it can also happen in the EU. I can say that the Board for Patient Safety also participates in EU Commission meetings on blood activity, so there is always a discussion here, but professionalism must therefore be leaning on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110529	Liselott Blix.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110530	I would like to ask: what are the questions this committee has been working on from the questions they have answered?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110539	I can't explain this. Let me just come back in writing. I don't have it right here. So it belongs to the Transfusion Medical Council, which then made this working group in 2020. I can't remember right now. I just need to make sure exactly what we have. So I'd like to come back with that. We can send the report and what they have answered. But what has been published is a review of the research literature, that is, the work they have done there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110612	Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110614	Thank you. Now the minister says that you want to continue working on this. But that is just not what the adoption says. In other words, it notes that everything is good. That is, in fact, what it says in its adoption... then you should have made a different decision. Well, what I would like to ask is a bit of Mrs Liselott Blixt's question: has the Minister asked in his system, in the regimes, whether Denmark is ready if a blood-borne virus is pouring into this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110641	In relation to the first comment, also in relation to our exchange of words here: when we have a discussion and we have a text for adoption, we support the adoption text which the rapporteur refers to here; it is not the case that we do not continue to work on all the issues. Work is ongoing, and my work is a sure thing that our governments are working on all the time. Of course you work all the time. The question is: should we put political pressure on our governments here? And it is our opinion that you should not, but let us listen to their professional input. In the introduction to my speech and I can send it to the committee afterwards I was just reviewing the assessment by the health authorities in relation to Denmark's situation, there should be a bloodborne epidemic. So that assessment has been made, and I explained it briefly here in my speech. And I can pass that on to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110741	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110743	To the point of not putting pressure on governments: what are they for, if you cannot, like, consult them politically? Then I don't know what those regimes are for. It's not like that. It's not like it's just living an independent life, is it? That is why I am a little surprised that the Minister cannot be a little more clear in his spit than if the Minister has asked the governments: are we ready for a bloodborne virus in this country? Is our blood response ready for a bloodborne virus in this country? And what is the Minister's comment on the fact that ECDC and WHO recommend that pathogen reduction be included as part of blood preparedness?
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110819	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110820	When ECDC and WHO come up with some general considerations, what I mentioned earlier is always based on a context to be translated into national circumstances. And, of course, there is a huge difference, including in Europe, between our health institutions, in terms of what we have of opportunities, what we have of data, what we have of test setup, etc. So it is up to our authorities to ensure that it is translated in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110855	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended. As I said, the vote on the proposal for adoption will take place on Tuesday 25 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20220121110916	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 25 January at 10 a.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website and, moreover, refer to the weekly schedule.
