ParlaMint-DK_20220331101501	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101506	The item listed as No. 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Therefore, consent to the examination of this paragraph must be voted on, cf. Paragraph 42 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a three-quarters majority for such consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101520	The consent may be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour, 102 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The consent is thus granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101543	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 56 by Annette Lind (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Karsten Hønge (SF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Søren Søndergaard (EL), Marcus Knuth (KF), Søren Espersen (DF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA), Uffe Elbæk (FG), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Jens Rohde (KD), and voting is possible. The vote will be taken at the end In favour, 103 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The proposal for adoption is adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101638	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 57 by Anne Paulin (S), Signe Munk (SF), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. For the vote 57 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), against 47 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 0. The proposal for adoption is adopted. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution. V 58 by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Carsten Kissmeyer (V) and Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101733	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101748	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG), against 1 (Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and we are being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101810	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101825	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 103 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101848	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the final adoption of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101901	A vote can be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour 99 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 5 (LA, FG and ALT), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101924	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331101957	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. For the vote on 29 (SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), against 75 (S, V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. There are no more votes today, so those who do not wish to take part in the negotiations are asked to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331102134	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331102152	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331102206	The debate is open. It's a statement debate where we have to get people up in the front row, so we're just taking a little technical break, so we get people in place. I can explain to the astonishing listeners that when we have questions and debate, the rapporteurs are not sitting in their normal seats in the Chamber, but then you sit a little together up here in the front row, because this gives rise to such a more intense debate. So that is the explanation for the small technical thing we are doing here, where the microphones must be adapted to the individual rapporteur. Then I think we're ready. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331102415	Thank you. Inequality is a condition of the foundation of any well-functioning society. With inequality often comes instability and distrust of the most central institutions in society. This applies regardless of the face of inequality, because the common trait is the same: Inequality gives birth to injustice. In Denmark, we early saw the value of equality, not only in relation to economic equality, but also in relation to gender and sexuality. This has brought great benefits to our society, because progress is moving faster when we pledge together and do not let progress depend on a small privileged group. Our policy on equality with women's entry into the labour market has been crucial for Denmark to be so well-functioning today with a solid welfare society, great trust and strong cohesion. It is social democratic heartblood to promote equality in Denmark, and we are proud of the great progress. Many of them are clear and clear social democratic fingerprints. But the historic victory for equality does not mean that we have achieved equality in Denmark today. It's a myth. While at home we have put our trust in change to take place on its own, a large number of countries have overtaken us on the ranking of the most equal countries in the world. In 2006 we were in an 8th place, in 2021 we were in a 29th place. Since the 2019 parliamentary elections, the Social Democratic Government has implemented a large number of initiatives that benefit equality in Denmark. We have adopted a consent-based rape clause and introduced a police guarantee in rape cases, and we have strengthened our efforts against the victims. We have presented a proposal to strengthen the rights and opportunities of people with disabilities, and we are well on the way to transforming the initiatives into legislation. We have reached an agreement on earmarked leave and improved maternity opportunities for the self-employed. Together with the parties, we have reached an agreement on sexual harassment in the workplace. We have strengthened the fight against social control and set up the Commission for the forgotten women's struggle to look at the freedom and rights of immigrant girls and women. We have set up a pay structure committee to look at wage structures and unequal pay in the public sector. We have secured more women in research by supporting a more equal gender balance in the research environments. We have tabled a bill on several women in management and boards. And most recently, the Minister for Gender Equality has proposed an action plan against the murder of women. Many of the initiatives are already working, some are on their way, and new ones need to come in. The social democratic equality struggle is about creating equal opportunities, regardless of gender and sexuality, it is about freedom and justice, and it is about the right to be who you are and love who you want to be. Our fight for equality is a joint struggle, not a struggle between genders or groups in society. The fight for equality is for the wider community. In the social democracy we fight for a strong welfare society. A strong welfare society is on the basis of justice and solidarity. We are fighting for a society in which there is real equality of opportunity, regardless of gender and sexuality, where no one is discriminated against and where there is room for diversity. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331102717	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no desire for short remarks. This means that we can proceed in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Maja Torp, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331102735	Thank you. I would like to start by taking this opportunity to thank the Minister and the rapporteurs for putting equality on the agenda. Although we are far from agreeing on all the parties, each of us contributes to a good and constructive but also solid debate, which has the most important task, namely to promote equality. It is crucial that the parties are united when it comes to eliminating discrimination. More figuratively speaking, it can be understood that everyone is going towards the same goal, but the way to do so is different. We, as elected representatives, represent a number of values that go beyond political ideologies, a number of core values that guarantee democracy, freedom and, above all, equality. In my view, equality is a broad concept which contains a number of aspects which must not be lost in the debate. Gender equality embraces widely and in particular covers gender, sexuality, religion and ethnicity. It is just a selection that equality covers. These picks range widely, and this clearly illustrates that equality is more than just quotas between men and women. In the Left we do not want to get stuck in the same old groove, which does not contribute to a nuanced and wider debate. This can be said in a single word: we need to look at diversity and not just at gender equality. I recognise that there is a problem in relation to the fact that typically female genders are under-represented in certain industries and, in particular, in boards and managements. Women's allowances or not women's allowances in the Left we believe in the individual person, the individual family and the individual company. They all know how best to fit in. And I also believe that we can go at least as far with voluntary action as we can with coercion, and even further. To put things in perspective, we can look at an increasing number of women who voluntarily want to be conscripted. We can, among other things. See the equal opportunities statement. This is a significant development. We can see here that 3%. women were conscripted in 2005. By 2020 we were actually at 22 per cent. by volunteering. Here the defence has shown that they can do something to attract women, and other companies and organisations could learn a little from that, i.e. to be a little curious about what makes them succeed. Because this is a development that has taken place completely without quotas. This is a commendable development. I believe that we must ensure the right framework conditions in terms of creating a more equal distribution of gender in the Danish labour market. First of all, we need to know what it is that actually prevents women from holding positions that are mainly dominated by men. We have many prejudices and many conjectures about what the barriers are, but are we curious enough to look for the nuances? I can doubt that a little bit. Then we must make it attractive to all regardless gender, age, sexuality, religion or ethnicity. And I am afraid that, if we first introduce quotas for women, this could form the basis for an inappropriate slippery path, because what will be next? Should we also have quotas defined on the basis of sexuality, for example? The debate on equality very often arouses strong feelings, and I see this as a sign that it means a great deal to the individual. But it must also be emotions that we must be able to rein in and, above all, we must dare to accept and very much respect those people who do not necessarily live their lives in the same way as the majority. It's about the freedom to choose. As a society, we should never judge other people on the basis of sex, sexuality or religion. This means that, in the future, we should not think so much in gender, but in diversity. We simply need to get that concept under our skin. I would like us to put an end to this sometimes a little pillar thinking, cash thinking, which has been there for too many years. We need to think much wider in framework conditions and structures and culture. By this I mean that we must make it more attractive and make it easier to take part in Danish society, regardless of who you are, as long as you conform to Danish laws. As I mentioned earlier, the concept of equality contains a number of aspects which are different from each other. Unfortunately, when we debate equality, we do not get round the scary and heartbreaking figures and statistics. 21% of the violent women have experienced life-threatening violence. That is simply not acceptable. I agree, of course, that we must constantly step up our efforts so that we can tackle gender-based violence in the future. We must reach out to those women who have been subjected to violence, but I am convinced that we must do more. First of all, we must dare to face up to reality, and we do so by talking about what we have left unsaid so far. Partner violence and gender-based violence should not be concealed. We must pull it out of the darkness and break the taboo, and we must put it into the light so that we can seriously look at the horrors that have taken place for too long. By starting to address the problems in educational institutions, in families and among friends and friends, we have already formed the basis for a change in culture which, in the long term, should be reflected in society and in the tragic statistics that we unfortunately have to recognise. As it is now, far too many women are subject to social control, which results in negative consequences not only for women but also for Danish society. Unfortunately, today's report reveals that women with other cultural and religious backgrounds are too much subjected to social control. It annoys me that society is missing out on those competences because they are under pressure from their families, which restrict their freedom, a freedom which should and must be a human right for everyone who lives in Denmark. For example, 70% has. of job centre employees who are in the City of Copenhagen, in fact experienced that a spouse or other relative has pressed for talks or has otherwise tried to interfere with the progress of unemployed ethnic minority women at the job centre. Every third job centre employee in the City of Copenhagen has had contact with unemployed ethnic minority women who have indicated that they are experiencing pressure from their families or associations in relation to not being available for the labour market. This is an area in which we need to take action, not only for the sake of society, but also, of course, for the many women who are actually in chains. Today's statement and the debate today testify to the fact that equality is still under enormous pressure, but I am also optimistic. We in the Left believe in the future, because the future creates new opportunities. A good example of this must be found among Danish innovative entrepreneurs. I have previously been in dialogue with some innovative forces, some young girls who have helped create a new tool themselves, invent a new tool, where you simply have a button you can push, and then you activate, like with cardiac runners, some people who are around you on their way home from the nightlife, and who can help you and follow a safe home if you feel threatened in the nightlife. There are some innovative solutions on the way, and we need to be curious about what is available, and we need to bring innovative solutions with us as possible tools to increase safety in nightlife. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister for Gender Equality for the statement and I look forward to continuing constructive cooperation, and I am quite sure that across parties and with the involvement of external organisations, companies and civil society, we can achieve very much in terms of equality. We have set in motion a debate that lives a life out there, and we must keep following that up, because this is the time to increase equality. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103700	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103704	Thanks for the speech. I noticed very much that the Left said that the individual knows best, the family knows best for themselves, and that the state should withdraw. I agree with that. But then I wonder why the Left voted in favour of forced maternity leave for men. In other words, if we really believe that families know best for themselves how to adapt, why should we, as politicians, interfere in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103734	When, among other things, we get to know each other. It has been included in that agreement, too, because this EU decision must not be over-implemented. It is, after all, an EU decision. Then, at the same time as this agreement, we have ensured that small businesses are excluded from this agreement. And so it is because we also believe that equality starts much, much earlier, by starting to highlight the benefits of both sides also participating in family life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103806	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103807	Yes, but I did not hear the Left say that we have to start equality with coercion and that we politicians have to decide how much to take of one thing or the other. That's what this legislation does. However, does the Left believe that it is the European Union that should determine the rules on maternity leave in Denmark? In other words, it is down there in the EU and Brussels that we have to decide how Danish families should adapt. Is that freedom? Is that equality for families? Is it to give some rights to families that some people are sitting down in Brussels to decide how Danish families behave best? Is the Left's position that it's okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103838	It is not the position of the Left that Brussels should decide what should happen within the family, but here there is an EU decision that we also agree to and ensure will not be over-implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103855	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103857	Thank you for that and thank you very much to the rapporteur for his speech. I take note of the fact that the rapporteur is doing a great deal to combat negative social control among ethnic minority women, and I fully agree that in some environments there is certainly not everyone, but some environments in Denmark have some particular challenges with negative social control. One of the things we have heard and heard for many years from the women's crisis centres is that there are some women who show up in the crisis centres who have been victims of violence and who do not have their own money and cannot receive cash aid because they are still subject to the dependency of their spouses, that is to say, the dependence on the man who is at home and who they have finally left because he was violent. Will the Left put an end to the dependency of women in women's crisis centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331103946	It is interesting to look at the overall view. It is clear that women themselves must also be able to enjoy freedom. We have not just taken a position on that part, but we will of course take a positive view of it if it is put forward as a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331104006	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331104008	I'm really glad. It's too bad you haven't taken a position on it. This is something that has been a problem for many years, but I would really like to help make a proposal if it is something that the Left could support. The problem is, for example, that those women who then go to a shelter do not have the money to pay the fees to get a divorce because they cannot get their own cash benefits if they are unemployed and have gone home. So in the light of this picture, which is repeatedly drawn by the Left, by the woman who is being held at home and is completely locked in and subject to strong negative social control, is it not paradoxical that the day she was to break out and stand at the shelter, she cannot get her own money?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331104044	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331104045	But what we are also very concerned about is that women are allowed by their men to enter the labour market and become integrated and become part of Danish society. One of the things I address in the speech here is that there is social control at job centres that moves into the conversations at the job centre and prevents women from entering the labour market and being part of Danish society. That's what I'm dealing with here in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331104114	There are no more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331104123	Thank you. Although it is sometimes regrettable that equality does not take up more space in this Chamber than it does, I really think we have taken some major steps in this area and reached many victories since the parliamentary elections and also in the last year. Sofi Lindes's talk about sexual abuse and the second wave of the metoo and the whole debate about the civil service reform and the nurses' strike has really sparked off the fact that equality policy has become a very high priority for a great many people, and also a great cultural change in relation to this sexual violation, and we in the SF are very pleased about that. It fills something more out there than it has for a long time, and that's good. We are also very pleased with the things we have achieved in this parliamentary term, where we have taken some very historic steps in the right direction. We have been given a consent law, a massive focus on combating negative social control, we have been earmarked for maternity leave for men and we have got a lot of work started in the fight against sexism in the workplace. It's pretty amazing that we've got our sleeves slammed up and chalked up the running shoes. But we are still a long way from achieving this, and if we do not act actively, yes, more than 100 years will pass before we reach the famous equality between men and women. So, although many decisive steps have been taken, political action is still needed and, as I see it, there are three areas in particular in the area of equality, where we are lagging significantly behind. It is about violence and the killing of women, about equal pay and about equal access, three crucial tracks for equality, which require political action, and we cannot go at a snail's pace, but we must take the lead. So I'm gonna talk about that today. But first a little bit about the victories we have actually achieved. The agreement on earmarked maternity leave for men is nothing short of historic, especially for us in the SF. And even if I really wish that we had not been so foot-timing and that the European Union had not got ahead of us, I am glad that the agreement has ended as it is and that it will soon enter into force. However, although we have the political agreement in place, I still think there is work to be done in front of us in the field of maternity. In the SF we would have liked to see the bars extended more in the context of these negotiations, and we will continue to work for a model with more maternity leave for both parents. We believe this will strengthen both parents and children's well - being. At the same time, we must also make efforts to strengthen the conditions of fathers in society. Because, of course, fathers must meet equally with mothers in parenthood. As a father, you also need to talk about diapers and sucking bottles and other challenges in connection with the bar, which is why it is important that we continue to create local initiatives for men, for example. Daddy's play group, so that men on maternity leave have the same community opportunities as women on maternity leave. I will return for a while to the Methodo movement. In my view, it has had a crucial role to play in women's right to their own bodies and it has had a crucial role to play in the way we talk together. We have managed to break the silence of violations and harassment, and there must also be a huge thank you to the many, many women who have come forward with their stories. Much remains to be done as a society. It is absolutely essential that more is done to combat sexual harassment and violations in Danish workplaces. In the SF, we have long been pressing for employers' responsibility in cases of sexual harassment in the labour market and for better protection of victims, and I am also pleased with the recent tripartite agreement and look forward to further work on it in the Folketing, although we would have liked it to be even more ambitious. In Denmark, we must have secure jobs for everyone, regardless of gender, and we must spread security throughout the country, both in terms of the labour market, but equally in terms of relations and movements in the nightlife and at home. Security is missing. I think we were all shocked when the very young woman Mia was killed while she was on her way home from a city trip. It is a very violent case of a woman being killed, and before we reached March this year, four more women had been killed by their current or former partner. I mention the issues today because it is a problem of equality which I believe we must resolve, and we must do so now. Every year, about 12 women are killed by their current or former partners, and right now we see that the number of victims of violence over the last seven years has exploded. It seems to me that this is evidence of an urgent need for political action. We only deal with cases of violence and murder against women when they are incredibly cruel or when they are not solved. Otherwise it'll be a newspaper note when a man kills his wife, and that's not good enough. I can read in the government's statement today that there is an ongoing need to strengthen the fight against partner violence and abuse. I hope that running means another blow, because I am deeply concerned about women who are repeatedly subjected to life-threatening violence, and not least for the children on the sidelines of it. That is why I look forward to seeing the government's action plan against violence in close relations. Because we know that combating domestic violence can prevent the killing of women. We need to strengthen out-patient counselling for women and men exposed to violence, and in the SF we want out-patient counselling to be written into the Service Act so that everyone is entitled to the necessary help. Another area that really needs a gigantic facelift is equal pay, and this is a recurring theme on the equality agenda and has been so since we adopted the civil service reform in 1969. And frankly, how I wish we would not have to mention equal pay again this year, but we must, because it is still one of the biggest problems we have when we talk about equality. I am aware that this is not something we can solve with a snap, but I think it is an area that we need to take very seriously and address. As has been said many times before, one of the reasons for the large pay gap between men and women, which in fact still stands at 14 per cent, is the gender-separated labour market, and that we consistently pay traditional women's jobs lower than traditional men's jobs. We would have liked to have seen a wage increase and an equal pay law to ensure higher wages in all care areas in the context of the whole debate on the reform of the civil service. The nurses, the so-su assistants and the many other employees in traditional women's professions play a key role in our society, and they should have a salary and working conditions that reflect the huge effort they make every day to make society stick together. We must put an end to the historical pay gap between traditional women's and men's occupations. This is unfair discrimination, which goes all the way back to the reform of the Old Norse Civil Service. It has been politically adopted, and therefore political action must also be taken to create a better framework for traditional women's professions. Something must happen if we are to take care of our public servants and if we are to safeguard our welfare. I would just like to use the last part of my speaking time to talk about the lgbt+ area, which can sometimes be mistakenly forgotten in the area of equality. I am glad that we in Denmark have also moved forward in this area, and I look forward even more to the hope that we will soon have another action plan in this area. For although we have also achieved many victories here, among others. maternity leave for rainbow families, flexible co-maternity, and hopefully we will soon ensure better rights for men who have children together, we are also a long way from achieving this, and I must honestly admit that I also think that the government is a little bit foot-timing, for example. in the case of legal change of sex to minors. I am glad, however, that we have given priority to the area of finance, because we need concrete initiatives to ensure the well-being of children and young people and of people with disabilities, because we still have a great deal of work to do here, and without funding we cannot guarantee that the necessary help that this group needs will reach them. There must be someone to pick up a phone when lgbt+ people call for help because their families knock their hands off them or when lgbt+-young people call because they are bullied at school or have suicidal thoughts because of their gender identity or sexual orientation. We hear horrible examples of lgbt+ children and young people with depression, anxiety, stress, self-harm and suicide behaviour, and this is considerably more common among young people who violate gender and sexuality standards compared to the rest of the population, as well as discrimination and sexual harassment. I think it hurts right into my heart, and it's very alarming. That is why we also need to invest more in gender and sex education in primary school. It must correspond to the reality in which children and young people navigate. Normcriticism and lgbt+ are some of the topics to be addressed in the class, and then sex education must become a mandatory part of teacher training so that all teachers can answer questions about gender and sexuality. Equality can be measured and weighed, but we must help to create a culture of equality. Equality is part of human quality, and we must help it along the way. We will continue in the SF this fight for equality, which we have helped to fight for since our party's founding. It is a common fight for real equal opportunities and equal rights for all, and there is no doubt enough to address. I look forward to continuing to reach milestones and victories. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105108	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105112	It was for the equality and 12 killings. The SF then bases an opinion on the fact that there is no gender equality when it comes to killing, because of 12 killings a year, and I think there are four killings where women kill men. If it had been fifty-fifty, that is, there were six murders by women of men and six murders by men of women, would it be said that there was equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105153	I think all the killings that are committed are quite awful. But when it is so clear that women who are killed by their partners are over-represented in the statistics, then action is needed, especially when women's organisations and crisis centres say that something can really be done if we intervene before, for example. with outpatient treatment and a number of other things. Of course, we must also help men who are subjected to violence, but they are not nearly killed by their partner, fortunately. But, of course, we must ensure that women do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105221	Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105223	No, but men are more likely to be killed. There are far more men being killed. So killing is only bad when it happens with the difference that it's from one sex to the other sex? If you are to have equality in this, you have to say that there are far more men who are killed than there are women who are killed. They're just gonna get killed by other men, and then suddenly it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105244	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105246	This is a huge problem, but it is not a problem of equality. I think we have an equal opportunities problem when women are so over-represented in statistics when it comes to partner violence that leads to murder. This is really serious and I think it is neglecting to say that there are only 12 killings per year. That's way too many.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105305	I think it is best for the debate and wisest to speak only when it is the case that the light is on, because then you can get it in the record. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105323	Thank you very much, President. Are we not really in line with equality in Denmark? This is an issue that I have thought about a great deal, and I have often seen that the issue has also been at the heart of the debate on gender equality at home. I shall come back to the answer to the question. In the meantime, I would like to welcome the fact that the government has actually begun to show more ambitious levels in the area of equality, and the Minister's statement also bears the hallmark of this. So thank you for that. Of course, it is not quite as ambitious tactics as I would like to see as radical, because as a radical I would like to get Denmark back in the position where we in the world were known as a true equal opportunities champion and were really at the top of all the rankings. It is probably too much to wish us for the time being. But, frankly, let us go where it actually moves something and where it helps something. For example: For me, it is fundamental to ensure equal access for women and men to power and influence, and it is simply so important for the Radical Left that we have more women on company boards and at the top of society, because according to the figures it is the case that 33 000 company boards in Denmark do not have a single woman. And then there's really something wrong. It hurts my social conscience and my liberal heart. Most other countries in Europe have acted on this issue, but in Denmark we still have to get up to speed. In my view, it would be embarrassing if it were to be the European Union once again to draw us to the trough in such an important area as the right of women and men to equal access to power and influence. When we have the debate and the debate on equality, I often find myself faced with the argument that we are already in line with equality, but the counter-question and the answer that we should then be able to answer is: When did we get this equality in Denmark? I certainly do not see anyone who has been able to date, date or specific legislation. That is simply not possible. This is, of course, because equality is an all-encompassing issue that sneaks into every corner of our society, in our homes, in our workplaces, in the school of civil society, in the parties, in the relationship, in the conversation and in the association with each other, and therefore it is also mistaken to believe that equality is only about the relationship between men and women. Gender equality is so much more than that and is basically about giving equal opportunities and treating each other with respect and dignity. Equality is thus one of the most important parameters when it comes to assessing society's ability to set people free and to live meaningful lives, and therefore it is also a crucial, not only fundamental, but also heart for us in the Radical Left. Let me also be specific for a moment, because we could do so much already tomorrow if we dared. There are plenty of low-hanging fruits to get started with. What if tomorrow we made sex education compulsory in teacher education so that all our future schoolteachers were better able to communicate and teach body, gender, sexual orientation and boundaries. What if tomorrow we made an even stronger effort to put an end to women's violence and partner killings, which are currently a disgrace to our free society? What if tomorrow we gave our self-employed and unemployed the same rights to maternity as we give to our employees? And then I have not even gone into the extensive work that we need to do when it comes to sexism, lgbt+ people, equal pay, gender stereotypes, etc. There are just so many places where we could put in and make a difference as early as tomorrow, and for my sake we really do not even have to wait until tomorrow, because we could just do it today. Every time we take a step forward in the equality struggle, we move something, and every time we dare a little more than today, it actually does some good. I would like us to raise the level of ambition, even if we have come a long way. Both can be done, both to welcome as far as we have come, but also to raise the level of ambition. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105804	Thank you. And there is a brief comment to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105810	Thank you. I can have such a little doubt as to when the Radical Left is actually satisfied with equality. Does the rapporteur not recognise that in the last 15 years Denmark has in fact been in a second place in the EU's inventory of the progress made by the Member States in the field of equal opportunities? And does this not mean that Denmark is actually quite good with it when it comes to the area of equality? What I fear a little is that the rapporteur's rhetorical and attitude paint a different picture from what is really happening in the real world?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105845	That is also why I concluded by saying that we can enjoy how far we are. I do not think we can take that away from us in Denmark, which I do not think can be taken from the Danish Parliament; that we reach step by step further and further. But is that ambitious enough? Should we stop here? Doesn't that mean we have to do more? That's where I think there's a difference. And it may well be that we have a place on the ranking, as Mrs Birgitte Bergman points out, but there are other world rankings in other areas, for example. This is about women's access to power and influence. So we do not rank super high there, and I specifically mention 33,000 boards in Denmark, where there is not a single woman. I do not believe that women in Denmark do not have the competences or ambitions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105935	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331105937	We fully agree that there are a great many women who have the skills and qualifications. But personally, and I think I speak for a lot of women, I don't have to be hired on the basis of a quota. It's as degrading as it can be. And how does that really relate to when the rapporteur says my liberal heart? For me, that means freedom. How does this relate to the fact that we have to have coercion and quotas? How does this relate to restricting the freedom of Danish families to choose how they will organise their family when it comes to maternity? How does the liberal heart relate to the coercion and the quotas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110013	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110015	My liberal heart is passionate about giving everyone in Denmark equal opportunities. It is freedom for me that each of us has equal opportunities, equal access to, for example. top positions of society, regardless of whether we are men or women, regardless of our origins, regardless of our dress, our religious background, our sexual orientation, etc. And it may well be that Mrs Birgitte Bergman as a woman would feel bad about being elected to a post because she is a woman, but there are quite a lot of men who are actually very happy to be elected to some posts because they are men.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110058	Then it's Mrs. Maja Torp, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110100	Thank you. How does the rapporteur define equal opportunities in Denmark? Because don't we have a system where we should have equal opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110114	That is a very good question, because yes, on paper we have equal opportunities. But when it comes to practice and when we see reality, there is no equality of opportunity. We see that there are women's courses and men's courses, and we see that there are 33,000 boards in Denmark without a single woman. And there we simply have to push and do something if we do not want to wait for this in two or three generations to happen by itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110142	Mrs. Maja Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110145	Thank you. But does the rapporteur not also recognise that, within this framework of equal opportunities, there should also be room for different choices, so we should probably also accept that there will be sectors where one sex is over-represented compared to the other? What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110206	Yes, but equal opportunities doesn't mean that there are others who have to decide how to do it. Equal opportunities mean that you are free from social standards, from pressure, from peer pressure and from social standards that push you in certain directions. And that's my point. In other words, equal opportunities is also to get rid of the standards that society imposes on you. We see fewer male educators, but perhaps more men want to be educators.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110233	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110236	The rapporteur just said that equal opportunities does not mean that others have to decide how to do it. But that is exactly what you do inside the Folketing when you impose quotas and decide how many of a particular sex are to be on a board of directors. Then it is precisely to decide what others should do. That is exactly the opposite of what the rapporteur says and says that equal opportunities do not mean that others have to decide how to do it. After all, the rapporteur would like to introduce quotas which impose on completely private companies how many there should be of one sex or another sex. It doesn't matter how competent they are; they just have to have a certain sex so they can be in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110314	That was an interesting interpretation of my words. After all, equality of opportunity is that women and men have equal access to influence and to power. Today, and I do not know whether the New Citizens' rapporteur actually recognizes or does not recognise that there is equality in the top positions of society. We see, of course, that women on equal terms with men have the qualifications and, in some cases, actually also better qualifications • have the same ambitions and have the same wishes, but there is a quiet separation, the higher and higher in the management layers we come up with. We see as a society, not just in Denmark, but in general, differently on men and women who have completely the same competences. This is something that the rapporteur and I have discussed in the Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110405	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110406	It may be that the rapporteur views men and women differently, but I do not. I do not believe that society does that in structural terms either. Well, we have a female prime minister. There are more party leaders who are women than there are men. We have the director of DR, who is a woman. We have a former chief of police who is a woman. So, in all the significant social positions, women have sometimes sat there and are sitting there now. So that there should be such a structural patriarchal thing, where men should keep women down, is simply not the case. Then the world wouldn't look the way it does. President. - Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110445	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110447	What the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party is saying is exactly what I am afraid will be the sleeping pillow argument. We've got a female prime minister number two female prime minister and then everything is perfect, equality is top, we sit back and we don't do any more. But frankly, I point to 33,000 companies' boards in Denmark, and in more than half of them there is not a single woman. Will the questioner really claim that there are no women who have the competences and ambitions to be part of that board work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110523	Thank you. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110526	I find it very strange to hear the rapporteur say that the Radical Left is in favour of equal opportunities. If there is to be equal opportunities, how can we at the same time say that someone must be forced in? In the field of research, we know that if funds are sought for research projects from women, they will receive them to the same extent as men do. But they're just not looking. So are they gonna be forced to be on board? If there are equal opportunities to enter, do they have to be forced? Because then there will be no equality of opportunity anymore. Or am I the one who misunderstands this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110605	Yeah, it is, because this isn't about coercion. It is precisely about giving the same opportunities for women and men. When you look for a place but are judged differently, depending on whether you are a man or a woman, you do not have the same options. Then the sight of the woman looking for a particular job is a tinge, different from the sight of a man who may turn in exactly the same resume. This is not something I am making up; it is something that studies have shown.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110633	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110634	So equal opportunities mean unequal opportunities. This means taking someone and taking action at the expense of others. I guess men don't have the same chance anymore, but maybe we shouldn't have that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110649	Of course, men must have that: equal opportunities, like women. But today, after all, the challenge is that women do not have the same opportunities as men. That is the problem that I would like to solve, not at the expense of men, but precisely in order to provide the same opportunities. And it's no harder than that. It's simply that if you have the qualifications, if you have the ambitions, you have the desires, then no one comes and slows you down because you have a certain sex.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110719	We thank Mrs Samira Nawa. There are no more brief comments. And we can move on to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331110735	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the speeches. I am very pleased that so little with a new government and a new political majority I can begin to change my rapporteur's speeches to the annual debate on the statement. There were many years when I held the same one just to tell you the truth and changed out a little bit here and here. Now something is actually starting to happen, and although I would hope that we could do more, we are actually a place where new speeches need to be written, and that is a step forward. On the one hand, the equality statement is depressing reading. We have major problems with everything from gender-based violence to inequality in the labour market. On the other hand, it is uplifting to have an overview of how many equality policy initiatives are under way and how many people are working very hard every day to create a more equal and free society for all of us. The past year has shown us the same. We have had a law of consent which has been in place for a year and already we can see both the development of statistics with more reported rapes, but also culturally. The way we behave towards each other is changing and we are discussing what is acceptable behaviour and what is not. That is the most important change. At the same time, we are engaged in a fight against sexual harassment at work caused by the Danish metoo movement. We have also adopted an agreement on maternity leave which ensures that men are entitled to maternity leave on an equal footing with women. All this makes me optimistic and makes me believe that there is a safer future for everyone where no one has to fear for welfare or opportunities in life based on gender, sexuality or ethnicity. And what equality is basically about is that we are all worth the same amount. However, for a great many minority groups, the experience is not always that and not for women who are discriminated against in both the public and private sectors. It is discrimination which, in extreme cases, ends in violence. The equality report also shows that half of all Danish transsexuals experience discrimination and that thousands of people are subjected to violence each year as a result of their sexual orientation or gender identity. And the fight against hate crime must continue, and I am also very pleased that we will soon, hopefully, see that we are opening the first crisis centre for double minorities in Denmark. It is a long-standing struggle for the Enhedslisten, which we look forward to seeing carried out. We also have, as other rapporteurs have said, a particular problem of both physical and psychological violence in close relationships. In February 2020, we witnessed a homicide that reminded us all that I think the whole country is going to get some women killed because they are women. It happens in the nightlife, but it also happens especially at home. Partner killing is the single biggest cause of murder in Denmark, and it is very much women who are killed to their partners. The big difference, and why it is a question of equality policy, is that, although far more men are killed, they are not killed by anyone they know very well, but women generally do. We need to do something about that. We need to have a plan of action against gender-based violence and partner killings, and we need to have it now, and it must be different from the action plans we have had in the past, because it is actually nothing new about action plans against domestic violence. One of the things that must be done differently and that we are fighting for in the Enhedslisten is that it should be financed and that it should be financed with what is termed durable money. We don't just need a pool that can go for a few years, and then it stops again, and then we have to start over. We need structural changes in the system, treatment for the perpetrators of violence, advice for the victims of violence, which is much more robust and which also lasts over the years. We are very pleased that the new Minister for Gender Equality threw himself into that fight from the very beginning. Almost from the first second as Minister for Gender Equality it was a matter, and we support it 100%, and we will do what we can to push the government to also find the money needed to take the important major steps forward. In the past year we have also witnessed what, I think, can be called a growing dissatisfaction among public employees in the care sector. It is a dissatisfaction which is certainly fair and which is based on the fact that the civil service reform in 1969 placed women's occupations much lower in the pay hierarchy than men's occupations, based on their gender. That hierarchy has lasted until today. The fact that politicians then in 1969 called women's work in the care professions, in the health professions, something that was done alongside, i.e. as allowance, still have effects in 2022. And it has such dramatic effects: in addition to the unequal distribution of maternity leave, this is probably the main cause of inequality between men and women, but it is also a problem which risks completely undermining our public sector. So newsflash! You don't necessarily go into a profession just like being a nurse or a midwife because you have a calling. It may well be that you have a heart with it. I know they all have a heart, but you also have to be paid for it, and you have to be paid fair for it. What we are seeing is that it is extremely difficult to find the people who have to ensure that we get the minimum standards in the day institutions for which we have been fighting for years and for which we have finally found money, but there is no one to look for the job. 1.000 more elderly care workers we have found money for finally but we need people to apply for the jobs. 1,000 more nurses are the government's huge battle number in the election campaign, and the money is there, but the applications are missing. And we must not be blind to the fact that wages are a huge, huge part of the explanation here and that it is a political responsibility to do something about it. So we need to find money for the pay structure committee set up by the government so that we can take care of the professions and get a more equal pay in the public sector. After all, equality is a question of politics. It is also a question of money. And it is also a question of how we prioritise. And that's why I'm gonna spend the last few minutes just pulling the 18 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I think it is worth mentioning because, at the same time, we are looking for less than a third of the amount to do something completely fundamental for the pay structure of our public sector, and the money is not going to help those people in Ukraine that we so terribly want to help right now. I would also like to question the fact that the government has chosen that the financing of aid to Ukrainian refugees is taken directly from development aid. It is, in fact, the same development aid that the Minister for Gender Equality points out in the statement to be used to ensure that Denmark takes the lead in ensuring women and girls' rights globally. The development aid goes to countries such as Burkina Faso, where 52 per cent. by the girls get married away before they are 18 years old, and where one in four gets pregnant as a teenager. It's the help for the women who have been cut away. It's hard for me to see how it fits in with this declared ambition for a giant for women and girls' rights outside Denmark. And I think we can go to many meetings of the United Nations Women's Commission, and I think that is important, but that is not where the change for these women is being created; that is when there is action and also crowns and ears, and the government has just taken out a huge, huge lump of them. Equality does not come on its own. It is a question of political priorities and political action. And I believe that when we stand here today, it is because we have to recognise that we have an equal opportunities problem and, above all, a political responsibility to deal with the inequality that is both at home and globally. It's in here that we make the decisions that make the difference. The debate we are having today is insanely important, but it is the actions that come in the next few days that are even more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111619	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111622	I think that the women who have fled with their children from Ukraine and have to see their men fight down there would have liked to have been members of NATO and that there had been equality there so that they would not have to live in fear as they are now. And that is what this is about with regard to the 18 billion. kr., which now needs to be given more to the defense. After all, it is precisely about equality and that we must live up to the promise to pay 2%. of our defence policy, just as other countries must do so, so that there is equality between countries, in terms of how much we contribute to the common defence policy. That is the whole point of raising it to the 18 billion. kr. But I understand on the Enhedslist that NATO is only good when you need it, but in peacetime we should not have NATO and then we should not pay for it. But when there's a war, all of a sudden, we don't have to get out of NATO. So that is a hypocritical way of looking at it. I believe that many of the women from Ukraine would wish they had had equality and they had been paid 2%. and been a member of NATO so that they could have lived a rather more secure life in Ukraine than is the case right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111728	I think that there are perhaps some things in New Citizens' Equality Policy that come to my mind now if the New Citizens' Gender Rapporteur thinks that it is about gender equality in defence budgets. What I am talking about is how to finance refugees who come to Denmark by taking money from development aid, which is intended to create security and peace in the rest of the world, and which, as the Minister of Gender Equality rightly points out, is precisely about equality and to promote the sexual, reproductive and health rights of women and girls in the rest of the world, where women get married away from their will before they are even of age and where they have children as teenagers and do not have the right to abortion and do not have the right to go to school. It is equality, and what I criticise is that money is being taken from that effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111821	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111823	It was the rapporteur himself who brought the defence and the 18 billion. kr. into the debate, and then I just say that the reason why we need 18 billion. kr. More precisely, we want to create equality there so that all countries contribute 2%. If we take development aid, Denmark is much higher than many other countries, so we are still away in front of there. So if we were to have equality, so that all countries would spend the same percentage of their GDP on development aid, we would actually need less than what is now the case. So that's where we're at the front, too. So to say that there is no equality in this area is completely mistaken if you look at the factual data.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111859	I am quite convinced that if all countries in the world are to spend the same on both defence budgets and development aid, it is not the case that Denmark is in the low end of defence budgets. It's a mess. Development aid is, of course, one of the things that creates peace in the world and ensures that we prevent and prevent conflicts, and what has happened is that in Denmark, in our assessment of our development aid, we count the money we spend on helping refugees at home. This is not a fair way of assessing it, and it will have an impact on women's rights in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111936	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Excuse me, Mrs Pernille Skipper, who just came last minute from Mrs Birgitte Bergman, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331111944	Well, that's because I couldn't help but grab that ball around NATO. So I just need to understand. The rapporteur believes that membership of NATO does not guarantee it, namely the free world and fighting for democracy and ensuring that we can have equality, equality and equality between genders and have a democratic dialogue, including between countries. Well, I just have to understand when the rapporteur says that being a member of NATO is not to secure it. Because that is what I hear the rapporteur stand and say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112024	I think I find it difficult to understand whether Mrs Birgitte Bergman believes that NATO membership has anything to do with equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112037	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112039	In general terms, in the light of the conversation and dialogue that Lars Boje Mathiesen is raising, I believe that there is precisely the question of ensuring democracy in the world. This is also about equality. Doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112054	Well, yes, yes. Securing democracy in the world is about equality. The more women we get in the boardrooms in general, the more diversity we get in decision-making, the better the Danish companies are. The more effort we make in development aid and the more knowledge we get there, the better and the more effective it becomes. Yes, yes, of course. At least equality and democracy are inextricably linked. If you think that NATO, in all its pomp and splendor and everything that happens, has something to do with it, then another discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112128	Then I think we can thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112137	Thank you for the floor. For the past 15 years, Denmark has been in second place in the EU's inventory of Member States' progress in the field of equal opportunities. It is actually a fine place we occupy, and we can be proud of that. This testifies to the fact that we have come a long way in terms of equality. This testifies to the fact that in Denmark we stand in a good place when it comes to having room for everyone; to be who you are; to be able to express ourselves; to love those you want, no matter who you are. These are basic Danish, important values, often perhaps things that we Danes take for granted, because unfortunately we find that women in other countries in particular must continue to fight to obtain the right to decide their own body and the right to free abortion. In other countries, too, there is still a struggle to fight for the basic rights of people with disabilities. Having said that, there are, of course, a number of areas at home where we can improve equality. We fully agree with that, but there is still some way to go. The Government has presented a gender perspective and action plan in 2022. Of course, we support equality, and thus a great deal of the package of initiatives included in the plan. We are, for example. agree that we need to prevent prostitution-like relationships among young people; we agree that we need to make new demands for dealing with negative social control; we agree that we need to look at partner violence and do more here, and we agree that we need to be better at helping victims of stalking. There are also a whole series of initiatives that the government has put forward, where we are rather sceptical. We believe that we must be careful that the woke mood goes too far and has inappropriate consequences. We do not believe that we should go in and change things that we previously fundamentally agreed on and that our whole society and social construction are built around. The government will introduce gender quotas at senior management levels. This means that as a woman you will no longer obtain a management post on the basis of your qualifications, but on the basis of your gender. Personally, I think that is a really bad direction to take. After all, we want gender to have no influence on one's position in the labour market. To standardize the problem of lack of women in management positions by introducing state-regulated reverse equality is not the way forward, on the contrary. After all, the aim must be to be employed on the basis of qualifications and not gender, age and ethnicity. In addition, we in the Conservative People's Party disagree that it should be the state that decides how to organise one's own family life. It should not be the state that dictates whether it is mother or father who goes on maternity leave. It is again to make a difference between men and women to restrict their freedom. In our optics, all maternity weeks must be divided one hundred percent between parents, just as the family wants. We are confident that the families themselves know best how to make life. In addition, I think it is important that we use this opportunity today to stress that major decisions such as a gender change require time for consideration, and we should be careful not to wipe out the border where we do not leave children to be children. In other words, it is not everything that should be introduced and thrown up for debate; one cannot deny that one was born as a man or a woman, and one should not as a child have to decide and be confronted with such a wide-ranging decision as changing sex. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112519	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that there are any brief comments. So we say thank you and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112535	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the statement. First of all, I would like to say that the vision that I read in the statement, namely that the government wants a welfare society where there is genuine equality of opportunity for women and men, where there is no discrimination and where there is room for diversity, I fully agree with it, because it is precisely a question of giving equal opportunities. But when I read down the text and in the wordings there is, I still get a little bit worried about some of it. It says: "It is a problem for society that education and the labour market are so gender-separated because it contributes to a less flexible labour market. And then it is described how, on the one hand, there is a shortage of care workers and, on the other hand, there is a lack of labour in the craft sector. We lack manpower in a great many areas. Would it matter if more men were forced to become nurses or women to become craftsmen? It doesn't solve any problems in this context, too, when you talk about forcing people into boards, forcing people into maternity leave, forcing people into research. In the field of research, work has been done on creating pools for women in order to give women researchers an advantage over easier access to research funds. It has been examined what it looks like in relation to whether women are seeking research funds and, to the extent that they are seeking, they get it exactly as much as men because it is awarded on the basis of the qualifications they actually have. Why do they have to be disadvantaged when you have equal opportunities? Then it can be about not using equal opportunities, and I think that applies in many areas. In other words, some of the reasons why female researchers do not seek research funds may be that the framework of being a researcher is difficult. That may be the framework for thinking: I want to go home to my child. Isn't that okay? What we had to look at then was the framework for doing so, the framework for example. to be able to be in a research position, but not to say that as a woman you have a privilege to go that way. I have to say that I also wonder about this when you get this signal: Women are also responsible for the most tasks in the home. Is it up to us in here to decide whether it is right or wrong, who is vacuum cleaner at home, who is washing the car, who is digging in the garden? Isn't that something you have to decide for yourself? Should you not be allowed to decide for yourself whether to do one thing or whether to do the other? Shouldn't you be allowed to decide for yourself what kind of education you want to take? Why should we signal that it is a little wrong that it is all the men who take technical training, if that is what they want? If the women become nurses because that's what they want, would that be wrong? Should we change that then? No. We need to look at where there are obstacles, where there are blockages, where there is something that means that you cannot have the opportunity, if you have the desire and skills and qualifications to do so. But we shouldn't force anyone into something they don't want to do. We should not create a framework that makes us make a difference that we do not want and that we do not want. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112907	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see anyone wishing to make brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331112913	One should not be blind to the importance of history in the debate on equality, and one must also look at the historical element of it if one talks gender and there has historically been no gender equality. It's actual history. Women were given voting rights later than men. They entered the labour market later than men. So in a large number of areas there has been no real gender equality. Questions that need to be addressed now are: What is the case now in society? Is there still structural discrimination against women in society from the system? No, there isn't. There is no evidence suggesting that this should be the case. If we look at the proportion of women taking higher education, it is higher than the proportion of men. Women live longer than men. Women today usually take more maternity leave than men. In a wide range of areas there are equal opportunities and gender equality. If you look at the judgments that have been made, there is nothing in our legal system that shows that there should be a problem with women being discriminated against in relation to obtaining board positions. The series of legal proceedings in which discrimination has been convicted is simply absent. If you look at the discrimination that some say is on pay, yes, there are some who tour around with the 14 per cent, but reports stress that they 14 per cent. can be fully documented. It has something to do with history, it has something to do with which job you choose and everything else, but it has nothing to do with discrimination, and that is what is at the heart. And if you look at the decisions and the judgments that have been about equal pay, you cannot find that there should be systemic discrimination against women. If you look at the proportion of women on board, as has been mentioned here, you can see that in the last five years there has been a massive change, and if that development continues and I have not heard anyone say that that development should not continue • then the goal of e.g. 40% women on listed boards have been achieved within 10 years. I think that is a nice and good development if it means that it is the most competent people who are recruited. But what you want now is to set quotas for private companies and say to them: you can no longer hire the most competent people, but you are now about to hire people based on their gender. I think that is discriminatory. I think it is terribly discriminatory against the insanely capable and competent women who are out there, who must now constantly be called into question. Why did I get this position? Is it because I'm a woman or because I'm competent? I also think it is discriminatory against men, because with Bill 117, which deals with achieving targets for the number of men and women in senior positions, it is now the case that if there is a man and a woman who is equally competent and has the same qualifications for a position, then the company is now more forced to hire a woman in order to meet a target figure. That means the man doesn't get the job on his own based on being a man. That is the definition of discrimination. So I am happy to talk about equality and equal opportunities in society, but we must be very careful to believe that in here, through quotas, coercion and control, equality can be achieved in society. I just don't believe it. This will mean that if we are to have equal numbers of men and women who are going to be nurses, if there are to be equal numbers of men and women who are going to be wasters, we can achieve it by force. If there are to be equal numbers of men and women who are going to be primary school teachers, then you can only achieve it by force: you have to deny some women who want to study as teachers to become teachers, because we have to have more men who need to be teachers to get equal numbers of teachers to the other end. That's how it works. I don't believe we're going to have a better society with more force. I do not believe that we will have a better society if the politicians in here are to dictate what education and what professions people should have more. It is not equality, nor is it freedom. When we look out into the world at society, Denmark is one of the communities where you have the most free opportunity to become what you want. It is not your economy or your family relationship, but it is your competence and diligence that determine what education you can get. What we can then see is that in free societies, where Denmark is at the top together with some other Scandinavian countries, women and men choose differently of pure free will. I do not want to take free will away from men and women by having to dictate any quota requirement for how many there should be in one category or another. But where can we do something, and where should we do something? Yeah, for example. we can take section 109 of the Service Act. It is thus that men do not have the same rights to receive help at shelters when they come there as women do. And when we proposed that we should not standardize it so that men and women have the same rights, it was funny to say that it was voted down by all those who talk about equal rights. We can talk about conscription. Today there is military service for men, but not for women. Nor do I hear anyone talking about it being for women as well. At any rate, there is resistance to it being for both sexes. I have not seen the bill that comes from the government or anything, that it should also be for both men and women. There is also no equality when we talk about the citizens. Here we talk a lot about gender, but there are also many other places in society where there is no equality, for example. the labour market contribution, which is a penalty tax for people who have a job. It's only people who have a job that have to pay these 8%. extra in taxes, people who don't have a job don't have to pay this. It's not equality. So there are a large number of areas where we can talk about equality and where we should talk about equality. But it is as if we are only talking about this in relation to the board areas of private companies: there we have to set quotas. That is where we must make demands. It is a problem that there are no more women there; you do not talk about the fact that there are no more women who are carpenters, wastemen or anything else. So we need a better balance in this. Let's also talk about the places where men then lag behind. Men die earlier than women. Men are more criminal. They get poorer education. There is a greater proportion of men living at the bottom of society who become alcoholics, drug addicts. It is also part of what should be part of the equality debate if we want to talk about creating better conditions. So although I understand the urge to say, because it is very clear in here from the Danish Parliament, that you want to run retail into the lives of the people, yes, just take the maternity area, where you want to decide whether it is the man or the woman who is going to wrestle, so it is a wrong way to go if you want to have real equality. I am not going to judge all the members of parliament, but at home in my small family there was at least equality, because it had to be decided who was to have maternity leave and when. So the idea that women should be such a oppressed and oppressed sex, who cannot take his right to the man, is, I think, an old-fashioned way of looking at women today. I believe that women are much more competent and much more powerful than they need quotas, coercion and rules to ensure that they have their rights in society and take their place. That's not how I look at women. Historically, yes, there have been problems, but certainly not when we look at the present. Look around society: female prime minister, several female leaders of parties, and at powerful positions a large number of other places can of course be women, precisely because we no longer look at gender, but look at competences. I do not want, very badly, to go back to a time when you start looking at gender and employing people based on gender instead of their competences, because that would be a step backwards for equality and not a step forward for equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331113855	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I do not think there are any more rapporteurs. We need the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, sir. Sikandar Siddique and Mr. Jens Rohde. But then it is the Minister for Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331113907	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good debate, which has taken place from the parliamentary platform, which has a rather strong history, because in 1916 it was time to get a new platform here in the Folketing, and that was, almost at the same time as women had been given the right to vote, which the Folketing had decided that women should have. But a new platform had to be created, and the choice of whoever was to make the new platform fell on the first female carpenter in Denmark, Anny Berntsen, who was divorced by the way, because she was suspected by her husband of adultery. However, I think it is quite telling that today we have this debate on progress in the field of equality from the platform of such historical importance, where decisions have been taken over the years which are absolutely essential for men and women, girls and boys to have greater freedom of choice and opportunities in life. But let me also start by stating that we do not have equality in Denmark. The figures show this, and it bears witness to experiences and calls from women, men and lgbt+ people. This also showed the beginning of 2022, where we only saw the first woman's killing a few days into the year. Gender has an impact on the freedom, security and opportunities of the individual to unfold, and it is not acceptable that we continue to pretend that we are leading in the field of equality in Denmark, because we are not. The government wants equality and we want to address the structures that are essential for changing cultures. We must return to the Nordic community, and we must not put many countries behind the other Nordic countries, for example in the case of women in management. All girls and women must live in a society where they can go home safely at night, where they are not subjected to partner violence or partner killings, or experience sexism and sexual harassment at work, educational establishments or social media, and where they are part of management and boards. As I said, I believe that structural changes are essential in order to change cultures. And structural changes have been part of lately. It is consent-based rape legislation that sends a very important signal. We have made legislation against psychological violence. We have made legislation against sharing images without consent on the web. We have made legislation that strengthens efforts against stalking and in a wide range of other areas, such as maternity law. I believe that the structures and initiatives we are taking here in the Folketing are essential for us to be able to change culture. And if we're in doubt, we can look back in history. What has seriously changed and made progress in equal opportunities is when we in the Folketing have acted. On average, a woman is killed every month by her partner or ex-partner. It is about gender, and we must recognise and talk about the pretty patterns of violence, which are a serious problem of equality. That is why the government will also come later this year with an action plan against partner violence and partner killings. Nor can we close our eyes to the fact that there are still ethnic minority environments where equality and women's rights are not recognised. These are environments where girls and women have to fight for freedom and for the rights that we normally associate with Denmark. It is the right to choose for yourself who to marry and the freedom to work and earn your own money. We must support those girls and women who are struggling with freedom and honour-related social control. You must therefore have set up the Commission for the forgotten women's struggle, which must look at this and make recommendations to us politicians. Over the last few years, we have also heard women speak out boldly about discrimination and sexual harassment in society and, in general, in the workplace. That is why I am particularly proud that we, together with the social partners, have launched 17 initiatives to address sexual harassment. The tripartite talks show how important it is for us to stand together, and I have no doubt that it is essential if we are to achieve the objective of changes in this area. When it comes to equality in boards and management, we are lagging behind. We must therefore stop saying that we do not have a problem or that it will solve itself over time. For we continue to claim that we have no problem or that the solutions come in time, we make a mistake and, above all, we miss qualified labour and skills. This is why the government has put forward a legislative proposal to pave the way for us to use the whole talent pool and ensure that more women are placed on management and board both in private companies and in the public sector. Equality does not come on its own, and the fight must never become an individual. It's a collective fight. Equality has not moved in earnest for many years here in Denmark, and we must move more strongly. We must bring Denmark on the front, and we must guarantee women's rights and opportunities across society. Together, we can do a great deal in this Parliament if we want to, and here it is about something as important as equal opportunities in life for everyone, so dear Parliament: let us act, not necessarily for our own sake, but for our children and our grandchildren; just as members of the Folketing before us have acted and ensured progress in society, that women can be at all part of democracy and that we have the rights that we have today. Things are not coming on their own, and that is why I look forward to further cooperation on progress in the field of equality. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114610	Thank you. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114614	Now the Minister mentioned equality many times, but she only mentioned it where there should be equality for women. What about equality for men? A proposal has been made in the Danish Parliament that women's and men's rights should be treated equally to receive assistance in shelters, so also for men who fall victim to violence, for example. at home, partner violence. It actually happens to 19,000. And that is where we think they should have the same opportunities and the same rights for crisis relief as women. But, apparently, equality was not so important, because there was a vote against it. Men should not be given the same rights as men, for example. psychological assistance that women must have, or the same opportunities to go to a crisis home as women must have. Why is it that the government believes that equality in this area should not be fought for, and why was it that a resolution was voted against to actually create equality in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114717	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114718	Equality applies to both men and women. As I remember the debate, the challenge was that funding was not included in the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114729	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114731	Wow! So we will not, as a minister, deal with the unequal treatment of men and women in crisis homes because of funding that can only come from the economic space, which is a completely legitimate way of financing things. Does this mean that the government will vote in favour of putting the rights of men and women on an equal footing in crisis homes if a resolution is tabled which finances it through the economic space that everyone agrees there is already? I know that some parties will use it on something else, but I do not see that anything is much more important than actually ensuring that men have the same rights as women, if they are having a hard time in life and they experience domestic violence and they have to go to a shelter in crisis and they need psychological help. Why is it that they should not have that right when women should have that right? Can't it hit men hard? Aren't we yes, thank you! )... will the Minister vote in favour if it is actually financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114822	Listen to me: we must respect each other in terms of speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114828	As I said before, equality applies to both men and women. But it is also quite normal in this Parliament that when proposals are made, funding is included. I am currently working on a plan of action to ensure better efforts in relation to the prevention of violence, in relation to the fight against violence, so that we also have a much better framework for this. And that is where I hope that new citizens will also play their part with good proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114858	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114902	Thank you. We fully agree that equality applies to men and women, which is why I would really like to hear the Minister's views on something. I understand that the Danish Free Research Fund wants a derogation under Section 3 of the Equality Act to promote one sex rather than another, which I think is a clear sign that there is no equality here. What does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331114928	I am going to refer to the relevant minister when it comes to concrete award criteria. There may be some places where it can make sense to create equality, then to create structures that promote one sex. In order to ensure that we get a better distribution of women and men on board and in management, the government, when it comes to women in management, has proposed that we change structures in relation to that. That is the approach we have to this, namely that we can push on structures in order to achieve better balance. However, in relation to the specific award criteria, I must refer to the relevant minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115017	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115022	I would like to ask the new Minister for Gender Equality whether the Minister for Gender Equality recognises the major problem of unequal pay in the public sector between male- and female-dominated professions. That's the first thing. The next is whether the Minister for Gender Equality is fighting for us to take political responsibility for doing something about it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115048	Yes, I recognise that there is a difference between pay for men and women and, above all, for the subjects which are classically female and classically male, and work has also been started in this area by the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115106	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115108	This was an important and very good starting point. What is important, then, is that when the pay structure committee set up by the Minister of Employment comes back with a way of doing so, we find some money from political teams, because the only way, a public bargaining agreement, regardless of the salary structure committee or not, can raise the salaries of nurses' midwives, sosu's, radiographers, is by finding some money that comes into those negotiations, unless you think that the money should be taken from teachers and police officers. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115147	I look forward to seeing the work that the Minister for Employment has started and the recommendations that will be there, and I am sure that we will have a good debate on both content and funding at the back of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115204	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115208	Thank you, President. 8 March we celebrated International Women's Day, and I celebrated it in Vega, where the Minister for Gender Equality was also present, and so was our Prime Minister, and she gave a speech, among other things. said that we should not be so afraid to talk about quotas for women on board. And in the Radical Left we have a proposal that we should have real quotas, not just target numbers, but real quotas, and I would like that, also in the light of the speech made by the Prime Minister that evening, to hear the thoughts of the Minister for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115248	Well, we haven't dared to touch it from the political point of view. Now we have taken initiatives by the government to ensure that, as a board of directors and management, we think about and plan what we are actually doing to make progress in this area. And I believe in sheep slipping in things. But I am not going to stand here today and say that I reject initiatives in advance, because that would be the same as saying that we are willing to just close our eyes to it if nothing happens in this area in the future. However, I believe that what we have put before the Folketing, that is, targets, demands that in companies and in the boardrooms you set some goals for this and start thinking about how to get there, actually going to move something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115353	Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115355	And I am very pleased about that, because it comes from a report which we jointly wrote on the basis of a motion for a resolution tabled by the Radical Left on precisely these targets. In the meantime, we have also moved further, because let us accelerate and make it a little faster, also because this equal access to top positions can hopefully also mean equal access to other positions in society when we get it in relation to the positions of power in place. The specific proposal that we have is a 40-60 distribution of men and women on the boards of companies listed on the list, and then it has to be an experimental arrangement, because we are not very fond of quotas. I will stop here because the President has risen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115444	I would rather not force anyone to do anything, and that is why I actually think it is a very good legislative proposal or two good legislative proposals that the government has put forward. Because it is not quotas that are in it, it is targets where you set requirements that you should have thought about how you do this and that you have plans to get there. I hope that it will be taken down, otherwise we will have to look at other tools. But let's see if it doesn't work. I think it does.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115513	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. Before we get the next item on the agenda, we need to move around a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115631	As I have said, this resolution has emerged from a citizen's proposal. The debate is open. Minister of Equality, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331115721	Every day children wake up around the country with their families, they eat breakfast, they may also see a little Ramashang, and then they are handed over to the day care center or school. The families look different, but the families where there are two fathers look a little more different, because in those families, as the legislation is today, we do not have recognition from the birth that they are both parents. When we all agree that families look different in Denmark, then the legislation must also follow, and that is what the citizens' proposal here is about. The aim of the proposal is to equate families with two fathers with families with a father and a mother or two mothers, and we in the government support that wish. That is why we want to vote in favour of the citizens' proposal and we thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for bringing it up. Today, when we support the proposal, it is with the desire to recognise that two fathers are two parents, like everyone else, and that the children who grow up in a family of two fathers are part of a family that is like everyone else. Having said that, there is nothing easy, because when we talk about two fathers, there will also be a woman who carries and gives birth to the child, and those women we must protect. We want the altruistic agreements to be recognised here and now and, in relation to commercial surrogate agreements, we want a group of experts to be set up to find solutions to how and to what extent recognition can be made. For one thing that is not a solution is just to close your eyes and say that commercial surrogati does not exist, because it does, and it is estimated that every year approx. 200 children to Denmark as a result of surrogate agreements. The expectation is not that it will stop or that the children will be reduced. Therefore, when we vote in favour of the proposal here, it is with a desire both to recognise co-faith, but also to provide better protection for women who are part of surrogate agreements. The expert work will have to be completed in the autumn, but with our 'yes' here today we show that we give recognition to fellow fathers and that we will find solutions for children, for fathers and for women. Again, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, and I repeat that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120005	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120008	Thank you, Minister. I am really, really happy with the solution-oriented approach. I am very pleased with the approach in which the Minister says very clearly that a family can be many things and a family certainly is not limited to being a mother and a father. And that is the very good starting point. Then the Minister talks about surrogati, which is one way to say that rainbow families have children, i.e. if you are two men who want to have children together. There are, among other things: the altruistic surrogati, i.e. a surrogate motherhood where there is no money involved. There is no insemination in the public sector here, there is no help for it in the public sector. We'd like to change that in the Enhedslisten. Will the Minister also do so? And what other measures will the Minister take other than just this commercial surrogati thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120100	Well, what this proposal is about is the recognition of two fathers, and that is what we say yes to with the proposal. Then there are some things about health, such as the right to fertility treatment, and I will refer to that where it belongs. So what we are discussing here today is: Can you be two fathers in Denmark from the birth of a child? Yes, we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120129	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120130	I'm sorry, but what is this? Of course you can be two fathers, and I am so glad that we recognise it. We shall also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Then there are a whole lot of places where it is really, really difficult in practice. Commercial surrogate agreements to which the Minister refers are one thing. It really belongs over in the Ministry of Social Affairs; now it is just the Minister who has got it. Another thing is that you cannot get help with an insemination in public if you have an altruistic surrogate, today. It is also a huge problem that you cannot be allowed to recognise it if you are three parents, two fathers and a mother. Then one fellow father is completely gone legally. Has the Minister really only dealt with the one consequence of recognising co-faith?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120216	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120217	Yeah. What we are saying with our 'yes' here today is that we want the recognition of two fathers. Well, then I'm quite clear that there's a whole lot of derivative stuff. What we are addressing here is: what surrogate agreements should be recognised? That is why we are launching expert work to identify what surrogate agreements we can recognise. Then there are some other things that lie in health legislation, and I will refer to health legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120248	There are no more comments, so we start with the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120305	In just two days we managed to collect enough signatures for the citizens' proposal to recognise co-fatherhood in rainbow families. It says something about the imbalance in the legislation that the citizens' proposal wants to address. The concept of the family today covers many different constellations of families, but the desire to have a family and to be the family you want is limited by the fact that parts of the legislation continue to rely on a more traditional understanding of the family as a concept. There are many ways of being a family today. Legal recognition of co-fatherhood gives both the child and the co-father both a range of rights and obligations. We want to support that intention in the Social Democratic Party. We also want to support the intention to equate different family constellations, be it a father and a mother, a mother and a fellow mother or a father and a fellow father. Today there are at most two legal parents when a child comes into the world, and the birthing woman will always be one of the two legal parents. This means that a male couple who need a surrogate mother will not both be legally recognised as fathers of the child. For Social Democracy, it is an easy matter to vote for equality and recognition of rainbow families in all constellations, but it is harder for us to vote for the freedom of surrogate mothers without prior thorough analysis and ethical considerations. We do not want children to be made a commodity and exposed women to be placed in an even more vulnerable position, where their primary source of income is surrogate. In other words, a wide range of ethical considerations are involved in this, which needs to be thoroughly clarified. That is why I welcome the Minister's statement that the government wants to set up a group of experts to look at possible models of surrogati, so that co-fathers are recognised and committed to the child without compromising the protection of women. In addition, it also makes sense to look at legislation relating to voluntary agreements. It could, for example, be done. be an agreement between close acquaintances or family members. On the basis of this, the Social Democratic Party supports the good intentions of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120514	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper has just a brief comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120517	I agree with much of what the rapporteur says, both that it is insanely important to recognise different family constellations, that things are evolving and that a family is a family, even if it is not just a mother and a father. It is very important to say this, including from the Parliament's platform. I also very much agree that there are some dilemmas about surrogati that I would very much like to share in discussing, but there are also some other problems that rainbow families encounter. This concerns, among other things: on the possibility of insemination, if you have a surrogate mother and there is therefore no money between, and the possibility of having three legal parents recognised. Would the rapporteur not acknowledge that, even if there are dilemmas there too, perhaps some things could be discussed instead of just shutting down and only opening up a debate on this one-sided issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120612	There are certainly many things you can discuss in connection with this, but now it is this citizen's proposal that we are dealing with, so that's what I'm trying to relate to. And this is, of course, primarily about what I have just been talking about and with which I also understood that the rapporteur agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120624	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120625	Excuse me, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, but that is simply not true. This citizen's proposal is about recognising fellow fathers, nothing but that. Then there are some derived issues of it. One of them is surrogati, another is helping insemination in the public sector, another is the families where there are three parents. There are many derived issues, so answer me just why the government chooses only one way and opens up to have a discussion there and I think it's fine to do so but close all other doors. Don't you recognize that the others who start families in a different way are also real families?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120703	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120704	I really think I am answering what the rapporteur is asking me. I recognise that there are different family forms • quite clearly. I am just dealing with this citizens' proposal, and I really thought I was trying to respond to it about the legislation, and I also said that with the expert group, which has to look at the different facets that are in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120723	Thank you. There's no one else who's gonna ask. Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331120730	Thank you for the floor, President. More than 65,000 votes in just a few days... well done! And I would also like to thank Mr Søren and Mr Søren, who are the ones who are behind this citizens' proposal that we are discussing in the Chamber today. This is, in fact, an important proposal for the whole debate on gender and gender equality when we talk about families and we talk about the rights of lgbt+ families to family life. It is also a debate which deeply affects me and in which I have also been very involved, and that is why I know the history. I know the discussion about why, back in 2013, when co-mothers were recognised in the legislation, they did not bring co-fathers in the same rebirth. Because, as we have heard repeatedly over the past year, this debate contains a number of ethical questions and dilemmas when we talk about equality, family education and children's rights; issues that we jointly in here, parties, with organisations and with fathers and with representatives of children, need to have and, above all, find a solution to. And how good it is that in 2022 we can finally take this debate with an open mind. For we would rather have the legislation looked at, thereby protecting children who grow up with two fathers than the area being completely unregulated, and the ethical challenges that can then be associated with surrogate mothers run under radar. That is why it is also time that we set up a working group, which the Minister also mentions, where we gather all the relevant professionals from Children's Conditions, LGBT+ Denmark, so that they can make some recommendations and some guidelines on commercial surrogati that we can continue with in this Parliament. It shows us quite clearly that we have some fathers who feel deeply, deeply ignored by the legislation and who, at the same time, also show us in here holes in the cheese when we talk about equality. And, of course, we cannot ignore that. That is why we in the Left also recognise the challenges that homosexual male couples face when the child comes into the world and the legal conditions need to be put in place. For the truth is that today we have a child law which gives two women parents the right to become mothers and co-mothers, while two male parents do not have the same option. And it goes without saying that it doesn't make any sense. You are simply not a lesser parent because you are two fathers than if you are two mothers or a mother and father structure. After all, the Left voted back in 2013 as the only bourgeois party together with the Liberal Alliance to allow women to be registered as their co-mother. We are proud of this, because in the Left it is a priority to ensure equality and equal rights for all regardless of gender or sexuality. We want room for various family constellations where men and women can form a family on an equal footing. That is why it does not matter whether we are talking about women's crisis centres, the Family Court House or, as we are talking about today, legal parenthood, because when we talk about equality, men and women must have the same rights. And you have to remember that this is not only true when it is easy to have that attitude. That is why I am also saying to the mainly red parties and ministers, not the minister who is sitting here today, but other ministers, who will only speak real equality in the political matters where it is good and where it is easy: please drop the hypocrisy and remember it because I will remember the things that are being said in the Chamber today, the next time we talk about women and men's rights. We cannot escape the fact that biology plays a role when we speak children and two fathers. The debate on surrogate mothers is ethically difficult and there is a balance between protecting the women who carry the child and also securing the child and the two parents who stand on the other side. That is why we also need to open up the debate on commercial surrogacy and ask ourselves the critical questions about how far we should push that border ethically. Equality and the best interests of children can and must go hand in hand. But we need to sit together, we need parties, with organisations, with fathers, with representatives of the children and take that debate. For in that Denmark it must be safe and secure to create family, no matter who you are. That is why, of course, the Left wholeheartedly supports this citizens' proposal, and I should also like to welcome the Liberal Alliance, which unfortunately cannot be here today, and to say that, of course, they also support the citizens' proposal, and they also support the setting up of a working group to look at the regulation of commercial surrogati. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121241	Thank you. We should only say that we are covering another party and perhaps not discussing the arguments. It is noted that the Liberal Alliance is covered by the Left. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121257	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The rapporteur of the Left, like the Social Democrat rapporteur and the Minister for Gender Equality, does and recognises the importance of recognising co-fathers. I agree. And they want to look at what can be done for commercial surrogate agreements. I am concerned that the feeling has spread that this is only the way two fathers have children, i.e. through commercial surrogati and that is not true. That is why I also have to ask the rapporteur of the Left about some of the other barriers that exist for two fathers, whether they are two fathers with a mother or whether they are two fathers with a sister or a friend who would like to have a child for them and be a surrogate without money, and they cannot get help in the public sector. Will the Left also be open to ^ despite dilemmas, and that is all there is to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121355	Thank you for the question. The fact that I did not mention it in my speech is not, in fact, because I did not take a position on it and took a position on it. After all, we had the discussion in connection with, I think, this was a bill last year under the Minister for Social Affairs, where I also got that question and gave a positive indication. I actually think that is something we should look at. In addition, as both the Social Democrats' rapporteur and the Minister have said, it is also something that is over with the Minister for Health. However, I am the Left's fertility rapporteur, which is why I have said positively that this is also something we would like to look at. Like the argument here, it is also really because when it is going on anyway and then just going on in all sorts of other places unregulated, then it is really better that we open our eyes and have a look at how to regulate it in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121436	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121437	It is also a little bit like family law when you talk about surrogate agreements. It is actually over in the Ministry of Social Affairs, but now it is with the Minister for Equal Opportunities. Then it may be that something else is over there with the Minister of Health. The Minister for Gender Equality doesn't have a resort. So, yes, it's about a lot of different laws when you're making a rainbow family. I'm glad that the Left would like to look at this insemination in public. In spite of the dilemmas, will the Left also help to see what we are doing for the families that exist, where children have three parents, but grow up without the right to one?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121509	After all, this was the discussion we had in connection with the Enhedslisten's question debate. I have just said on behalf of the Left that, with regard to four or more legal parents, we are not interested in going into that debate. In our view, it is important that we first of all secure this and ensure that we have fellow fathers in the legislation and that we ensure that there are two legal parents as well. But in relation to the child's best interests, it was really that, among other things. Children's Terms were also out and talk, so you can be worried that these are not just rainbow families, but all families, which means that there can be a lot of children potentially with four different parents. And again, as I also said during the debate on the question, there is just another problem and debate for me to see, because we have had these discussions about the House of Family Rights very, very many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121559	Thank you. There are no more questions or comments. And then we move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331121607	Thank you. In the SF we also agree that co-fathers must of course be treated equally with all other parents, and that one must of course be able to be registered as a co-father when that is what one is, and not like everything else in the systems one meets in the daily. So I would also like to say at the outset that we support this citizens' proposal. I would also like to congratulate the authors of the motion for a resolution, who wrote about history in just two days, which ended the 50,000 supporters. And it didn't stop there. It kept pouring in with supporters for this proposal. It is really impressive, and it is really important. I also think it very clearly shows that there is a clear injustice here, as the Danes can clearly see. For as the law is today, a man and a woman can share a parenthood, as can a woman and a woman, but when two men have a child, different rules apply, and you will never be able to be registered as a co-father, but only as a mother and also in much longer term terms than in the other family forms. It really touched me when I read Søren's story and the background to this citizen's proposal. It is a story that was the beginning of us now standing here and discussing the matter. Søren and his husband became the parents of a small daughter to whom only Søren's husband has the legal rights, and the child also has only the right to one father. For the woman who bore Søren's daughter is automatically registered as a mother, and the daughter can only have two legal parents, and Søren can only place child adoption after 21⁄2 years. In the SF we would like to see the legal position changed, so that co-fathers can be registered as co-fathers in connection with birth and not after 21⁄2 years, if, as in Søren's family case, this is an altruistic surrogate agreement, i.e. when a woman, for example. a friend or family member, carrying the child free of charge for the fathers. I think that makes sense both for the children and for the parents. But I also think it is important that, in this discussion, even though there are many ethical dilemmas and it may be difficult to talk about the children who come here in commercial surrogati, because they exist in Denmark. And we need to find out whether and how we can recognise the parenthood of those children, even though this is a difficult discussion. Up to 200 children come to Denmark each year as a result of a commercial surrogate agreement. They are born in the United States, Georgia, Colombia and yes, Ukraine. And these are countries where we in Denmark cannot be sure of the rights of children or women who are born. While we must, of course, recognise many family forms, we must at the same time ensure that we take care of the women who bear and give birth to the children and, above all, that we take care of the children. But we cannot go on as it is now that the children come here anyway, regardless of the fact that it is not legal today. And we really need a lot of knowledge in this area to find out: what can we actually do? So I am very pleased that the government will set up this group of experts to investigate how we can deal with commercial surrogati in Denmark and how we also safeguard the rights of women who are born. I am very excited to see the outcome of this work, and I am really glad that we can now open up this discussion, even if it is difficult, and even if there are a lot of ethical dilemmas, and I am not sure what the final solution will be either. It's good to get some experts to make a bid. At the same time, I also believe that the public sector should be much better dressed in relation to the meeting with altruistic surrogati here in Denmark. It is, of course, a legal practice in Denmark today, but as it is right now, health professionals cannot properly guide parents and those who are giving birth in the process, and I think that is very worrying, and it may also be that they end up using commercial surrogati instead of the altruist, because it may seem more structured and with clearer agreements. So I think it's very important that we look into it too. I also think, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, that this discussion is somewhat related to the discussion we had a few weeks ago about several legal parents and a study of what was unfortunately poured down the board by a majority of the Danish Parliament; that is, that we can examine how we can arrange for the families that also exist in Denmark today. In the same way as these children of commercial surrogate agreements exist, there are also lots of families in Denmark today where there are more parents about a child than two. And we would like to have a study done on how to ensure those children and those parents and those family forms, but unfortunately there was not a majority for that. So we're gonna have to keep fighting to get an investigation into that. We are pleased that we can vote in favour of this proposal and that it also seems that it is going through today and that we can then examine the area and gain more knowledge and find a solution for the parents who are linked to commercial surrogate. We look forward to the work of the committee and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122116	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122118	Thank you. I would like to say to the SF rapporteur that I know that the SF far along the way agrees with us that there are very many places where it is difficult to create a rainbow family and that you do not get the help you want. There are also many places where we can help heterosexual couples who are childless, much better, because this is also the case when we talk about surrogate. So I won't ask SF about that; there I know we have a partner, and I'm glad about that. However, I would like to ask the SF whether we should not get any more knowledge about commercial surrogati too, i.e. how many children are actually coming. After all, the SF rapporteur says that there are 200 children in Denmark every year. It is an estimate we have from an association that I have great respect for, and I think they may be right. But we don't know. And we don't even know where the kids come from. In other words, we do not know whether they come from the United States or from Ukraine, unfortunately, we have to say, because not many come from there now, but we lack a great deal of knowledge about it. So will the SF not help us also try to get the Minister to investigate other facets of it than just models?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122227	Yes, I think it is extremely important that we also examine how many children come here. And by the way, the rapporteur is quite right that this is not just a question of lgbt+. The vast majority of children reportedly come here, where a heterosexual couple have used a commercial surrogate agreement. It doesn't really change the fact that we have to look at the problem, but it's worth mentioning. I know this is an estimate, but whether it is 100, 200 or 300 children, we need to find solutions, no matter what. I think it is absolutely worth examining how many children come here, but I also think it is important that we do not jam it for too long and spend very many years on very, very long studies and so on, because it is children who come here every year, and I also think that the number is going to be increasing. And one last thing about where the children come from: it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that we do not know that either. It seems that it may well be part of the United States and then yes, a lot earlier from Ukraine. It will probably not be forward-looking, but then it will probably be some other Eastern countries. And you can just see that there is a very big difference between what rights you have and what women are used, depending on which countries they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122332	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122334	Thank you very much for that wonderful, nuanced answer. And that is exactly where I would like to go, because to this point, perhaps it is not really so important how many children there are, because children without the right to their parents are in a completely impossible situation where we cannot just stand by. What is probably the problem somewhere is that if you open this up and say that the solution is that we recognise some commercial surrogate agreements from what can be called organized conditions, there will of course be very many countries from which we would not recognise agreements, because they are women in very, very tough economic situations, who enter into agreements mainly, at least because there is money in it. Is this gonna solve the whole problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122419	I do not know what the final solution will be; that is what we need the expert group to look at. And if it ends up being a model where some countries are accepted yes, then it's extremely important that we have an eye on how much of these children it is that we solve the problem for. Because we haven't finished the task if it's not all of them, or at least most of them. Because I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that we often have these discussions about how many these are all about, both when it comes to parenthood, but also when it comes to the right to legal gender change and to child-beauties. I mean, no matter how few people it's about, some people get stuck in the system. And we can't have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122453	Thank you. There are no more comments. Mrs. Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122501	Thank you. First of all, there must be a huge thank-you and a great congratulations to the authors of the motion for a resolution, with the overwhelming support with which this motion for a resolution has been received and which, of course, means that today we are discussing it here in the Parliamentary Assembly. Specifically, there is a lack of recognition of the so-called co-parenthood. Co-parentage means that a homosexual couple can become parents of the same child, even though only one is the child's biological mother or father. In view of the fact that a lesbian couple can already have co-motherhood, it is a little strange that fathers do not enjoy the same right. So why not extend the concept of co-motherhood to co-parenthood, so that we get the men too? I myself have been pursuing this matter since I was elected to the Folketing and became gender equality rapporteur, for it had to be an oversight that co-ancestors are not recognised on an equal footing with co-mothers. But the argument I always met was that the anatomy of women and men is different. I recognize that. Of course, the anatomy of men and women is different, but then what? Why should it mean any difference between the emotional or legal stock that the co-father has in his child? Just as women are able to love and care for a child who is not biologically their own, so are men. I've met with several men whose highest wish is just to be the father of their own child, and I think it's the least we can do. In the Radical Left, therefore, we warmly support the citizens' proposal, and in the Radical Left we are ready to recognise both co-fathers who have had a child through altruistic surrogate motherhood, but also those who have had a child by means of surrogate mother abroad. And so it's the vast majority of these kids that come into the world that way. However, I also note that other parties in the Folketing have a need to set up a group of experts to examine in depth the barriers and dilemmas that may exist in relation to parents who make use of surrogate mother abroad. We in the Radical Left would like to respond to that need, and that is why we can also support that group of experts, although of course we would have liked to have had that discussion already today, now that we have opened it up, even if it is difficult. So in conclusion, I would just like to repeat that there is a warm support from the Radical Left for this citizens' proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122748	Thank you. There are no comments. I do not see Mrs Pernille Skipper, so we move on to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party. Well, here comes Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Let's just let grace go for it, shall we? No. So you have to be in the Chamber to speak. Here you go, Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331122813	Thank you, President. Dear Søren and Søren. Congratulations on the citizen's proposal. Well fought, one can sense the perseverance with which you have worked, and I acknowledge that today, because today we are discussing your citizens' proposal to recognise co-faith in rainbow families. The aim of the proposed citizen's proposal is to give a co-father fundamental rights. Parenthood today can be divided between a man and a woman or between two women, but not between two men. Two men can only be registered as parents if it is a joint adoption. Today, up to 21⁄2 years may pass before the co-daddy can apply to adopt his child, and during that period he is not entitled to the child in the event of divorce, or if the registered father should become seriously ill or die, God forbid it, just as he is cut off from the daily practical things that belong to a family, like taking his child to a doctor or to school-home conversations. The citizens' proposal aims to equate families with two fathers with both heterosexual families and parenthood of two women. In the Conservative People's Party, we welcome the proposal. We have also said this publicly, because there is obviously a problem with the legislation in force. We want to help solve this problem. We in the Conservative People's Party agree with the intention of the resolution to recognise co-fatherhood, thereby giving both the child and the co-father a number of rights and duties. Having said that, we in the Conservative Parliamentary Group are also aware that the citizens' proposal automatically involves a number of legal and ethical issues, and these are issues that we will have to discuss in greater detail once the area has been better clarified. That is why we also welcome the fact that the government will set up a working group, a group of experts to consider the ethical dilemmas and challenges arising from the potential change in current legislation. In this respect, I hope that the government will work to ensure that we arrive at a broad report and that all parties have an influence on the composition of the expert group. We also believe that the expert group should be set up in the summer of 2022 with a view to reporting by the end of 2022 at the latest. We support the proposal and look forward to the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331123054	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331123112	Thank you. The resolution is about giving two men the opportunity to be a father and a father and to have legal rights as two parents. I may be very old-fashioned, but I cannot ignore the fact that a child requires a mother and a father in one way or another. It still requires an egg from a woman and a sperm from a man, so when the baby is born, it will have a biological father and a biological mother. I do not believe that there are children who will not, at any time in their lives, search for their biological origins if they are not the ones who raised them. With this kind of legislation, we're dealing with kids. We make them objects that we legislate around. We're discussing who to give rights over the child, who owns the child. Is it really in the best interests of the child? I know that there are many kinds of families. I also know that lesbians and gay couples just as heterosexuals want children and will be able to love a child just as much. But there is still only one set of biological parents. And I am even more concerned when I hear in the debate that we are beginning to talk about three, there may be four, there may be more. To me, it can never be in the best interests of the child. That doesn't make any sense. That is why it does not make any sense for us in the Danish People's Party with legislation that gives co-mother legal rights as a parent. Because, of course, there will be a parallel of equal opportunities if that is the way I know it is today, but we were against that too when it was adopted. So already there you go out a key that doesn't make sense. That is why this motion for a resolution to be able to be a legal co-dad does not of course make sense either. Therefore, the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331123257	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331123303	Thank you. Often, in the public debate, some may ask what the difference is between DF and NB, and here I would say that there is a difference and that we are going to support this. When the legislation was made in 2014, NB was not sitting in the Folketing, and we are now doing so, and we think that we should have taken the fellow fathers into the name of equality, and that is why this is a good citizen's proposal, and we look forward to a legislative proposal coming to it, and we will also support that. We would also hope that it will be defined to be around this issue because we think it is important and that it is important to have it voted through so that it gives them rights. Then there is a debate about going out that a child may have three parents, four parents, five parents, and so there are also some dividing lines where we in New Citizens say that we are not sure that we think that is the right way to go. We think it's healthy for a child to have a pointer mark as to who your parents are. But there must definitely be equality in this area, and that is why we are going to support it here. We think it is good that there should be equality in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331123434	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331123453	We need to recognize fellow fathers. Your parents' sex doesn't determine their parenting ability, your DNA doesn't determine whether you're a whole and a complete family. There are many different family forms, and they must be recognised as such, and in Enhedslisten's optics it not only means that you talk nicely about alternative family forms, but that we also organize our society so that they can be here on their own terms and their own ways, and that you can be a complete family. We shall, of course, vote in favour of the proposal. In this debate on co-fatherhood, we also believe that there are some things that can be done immediately by recognising co-fathers in current legislation and that there are a lot of places where there are barriers to creating a family for co-fathers. Commercial surrogati is one of the discussions, and we find it difficult, and I will come back to that. But there are other places where I feel significantly easier and where I think it is a pity that we are not doing any more, for example. that it is not allowed to make double donations in connection with altruistic surrogati in Denmark, that you cannot get free insemination in the public sector, if it is a non-commercial surrogati, that is, altruistic surrogati, and that a number of rapporteurs can stand up here and say that we must make the legislation fit, and that the most important thing is that these children are here and that they must then be recognised. But a few days ago there was nothing, no openness to a discussion about recognising the children who have three parents and who face a lot of barriers and are only entitled to two of them. One of them is not properly recognised. There is also the procedure for the adoption of stepchildren and, as the rules are, the adoption of places of birth should be possible within the first three months if there is a non-commercial surrogate motherhood. Nevertheless, I hear that many people do not get it, and we must have done something about it too, and all these things I will try to pursue when dealing with this proposal, so that we also get to grips with those barriers. Then there is that about commercial surrogacy, and I shall be the first to say frankly that I have a lot of ethical quabbes about it. Several rapporteurs have also said a bit of a passant that there are ethical considerations, and I would like to say a few words about what they are. There are problems with the exploitation of women, especially in the world's poorest countries. We have seen definite baby factories, women who are clearly there because it is their way of surviving or their way of feeding their other children, and that is a huge problem. I do not claim that anyone wants to do so, and on the contrary, one might ask whether that problem could not be solved by making it happen under orderly conditions. The same applies to the consideration of what to do with birth defects, psychic but in the woman after a birth, if either the intended parent or the woman regrets. There are a great many ethical considerations in it, and I am not saying that they cannot be landed, but I am also saying that in here we are obliged to take them. At any rate, I do not think we can just say that this is something that is going on abroad. So I would also like to say hurry up and say that although commercial surrogati is something against which I have a great deal of resistance, because I do not think that carrying a child is the same as going to work, however, I also think that if we are going to go that way, it is really important that we make a Danish scheme, that we stand by it. Then we do it at home and we ensure that it is done in a way that we can vouch for the conditions of the birthing and the conditions of the intended parents and, above all, that it is not the pockets of the intended parents who decide whether it is done under orderly conditions. For those of us who have looked at it for just two seconds, we also know that it costs so much money to have a child with a surrogate mother in the United States, at least in places where you might call the arranged relationship, for which most people in the home do not really have money. But it should not be the deciding factor. That is why, if we are going to go that way, I would argue that we should do so in accordance with Danish conditions and that we should also take responsibility for the decisions we take as a society. So what I have to say hurry up is that Enhedslisten supports the proposal for co-faith. We believe that there are a great many things we can do to make life easier for our fellow fathers, and we must do so, and then we will embark on an attempt to make the debate on commercial surrogate as open and honest as possible and to ensure the best possible conditions if that is to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124012	Thank you. There is one point from Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124016	Thank you very much. I would like to know whether, when Enhedslisten says that we would like to vote in favour of this citizens' proposal, it is only about the recognition of the co-fathers who have had a child through an altruistic surrogate, or about the recognition that Enhedslisten gives by supporting this citizens' proposal, also applies to those co-fathers who have had a child through commercial surrogati, i.e. had a child abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124046	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124050	The legislation in force today is that neither motherhood nor co-faith from commercial surrogacy can be recognised. So, within the framework of today, we would acknowledge co-faith. As I am also saying, I am fully aware that there are children who have come here with commercial surrogacy, and I do not think that we can just pretend that they are not here and there is a gap in the law in relation to their rights when they have a parent who is their parent but to whom they are not entitled on paper. This applies both to children who have come into the world through a commercial surrogate agreement, and to children who have three parents. That is why I believe that we must start looking at how we can ensure that it is not the children who are being punished. Because although I am actually opposed to legalising commercial surrogacy, I do not believe that we should punish children, but so we need to find a different structure in which children retain the rights of their parents, even without legalising commercial surrogacy. I can also hear that we are going there, and we will, as I say in my rapporteur's speech, enter into the discussion to ensure that, if this is to happen in Denmark, it should be done on orderly terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124154	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124155	Thank you for your answer. To me, unfortunately, we are going to punish the many children who are here and who have a father and a fellow father. But the children themselves have not asked for how they wanted to come to the world, but they have come to the world through commercial surrogati, for example. in the United States, and it annoys me and the Radical Left that, when we vote for this citizens' proposal, we cannot also take them with us. But we are, of course, in favour of the fact that there are several parties here in the Danish Parliament calling for this group of experts. Does Enhedslisten also indicate that we should have the expert group, in the same breath as we recognise altruistic co-fathers?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124235	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124236	As I tried to say, maybe a little too nuanced, but after all, the Enhedslisten is opposed to commercial surrogati. We do not believe that this is a way forward, but we fully recognise that those children exist and that they should have the right to their parents because they are their parents. That's one thing. The second thing is what we then do in terms of creating some orderly conditions for the future around commercial surrogati. Well, I mean, you have to stop punishing the kids, completely agree. We ourselves, as a party, do not propose to legalise commercial surrogacy, but we can also hear where the mood is, and that is why we intend to engage in the fight for it to be a national system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124316	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124331	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124357	Thank you for the floor. This motion for a resolution calls for the government to amend laws and regulations before New Year's, so that there is always a separation between the asylum couples in the asylum system when one party is under 18, at the same time Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the Unity of the Family cannot be invoked. It is now the case that, as a starting point, the National Council of Foreigners is to accommodate a minor resident who is married or cohabiting separately from the partner, unless the consideration of the family unit provides for common accommodation and it is not contrary to the best interests of the minor. However, if one party is less than 15 years old, separate accommodation shall always be provided. The purpose of separate accommodation is inter alia: ensuring that accommodation in the asylum system does not contribute to maintaining a minor in forced marriage or forced association. Conversely, the scheme also takes into account the need to ensure that, where there is a protected family life, common accommodation can continue to exist. I believe that this is a sensible arrangement and that is why the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124512	Thank you. No brief comments have been asked. That is why we are now going to the rapporteur's line, and that is first, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124530	With the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes to require the government to change laws and regulations so that asylum couples are always separated from the asylum system when one spouse is under 18 years of age. It is important for the Social Democrats to emphasise that we will not accept child brides in Denmark. That has always been our position. Therefore, we believe that it should be the general rule that minors who come to Denmark with an adult partner with whom they are either married or cohabited should be separated as a starting point and accommodated separately from their adult partner. It is also fully in line with the current practice of the Foreign Affairs Agency. The administration, as a rule, always neighborhoods of minors who are married or cohabiting, separated from their partner to ensure that the minor alien is not maintained in a relationship with coercion. However, we do not believe that the authorities should always separate asylum couples and accommodate them separately in cases where one is under 18 years of age. There may be exceptions to the general rule and it must be based on an individual assessment whether there is a basis for an exemption. It could, for example, be done. be if one Party is 17 years old and the other Party is 18 years old. The Social Democratic Party does not support the proposal as, as a general rule, the National Authority already ensures that asylum couples are separated and accommodated separately when one partner is under 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124648	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124650	[Sound emission]... both from the Minister and the Social Democrat rapporteur, but that's up to you. Now it is mentioned if one is 17 and the other is 18, but we have seen some cases in which there have actually been many years between, that is, where it has been quite young girls, actually children who have been forced to marry a much older man. So I think that is part of that debate and what are we really doing about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124719	The legislation is already such that if it is a person under the age of 15, it is completely without a derogation, then it is not a question of individual assessment or that there are exceptions. That's one part. The second part is that we have just clarified in the legislation last year, as far as I remember, that the starting point is separation, and then there can be an exception if, for example, there are a couple where one is 17 years old and the other is 18 years old. And yes, perhaps a brief speech from the rapporteur, but I really think I explained our point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124755	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124757	I do not want to make much of this matter, even though we have raised this debate, but there were really cases where it was grotesque and where children had even been born, in other words where one was under 15 years of age, and that is what has actually raised this whole problem. This is not something we have discussed before in Denmark, but it is actually what has raised the whole problem, where there has really been a very, very cross-border age difference between the young bride and perhaps a little older or ageing husband.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124836	However, it is my impression that almost a whole Parliament agrees that we should not have child brides in Denmark and that we will not accept at all that there are minors who are married to older men. That is why the general rule is that we separate, and then there may be these exceptions that we would not allow if we adopted this resolution, but there may be these exceptions where one party is 17 or 18 years old, and the other party is 17 or 18 years old, and that we there do not think that it really should apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124907	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we can then move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331124922	Thank you for the floor. In the Left we are very aware of the problem that in the world there are more than 650 million girls, estimated who, while they have been minors, have married and many of them have also had children while they have been minors. That is a huge problem. When they come to Denmark, it is important for us that they are individually heard by the authorities and separated in the vast majority of cases. There may be exceptions, they may be 17 and 18, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund just mentioned before, and there may be other conditions that apply, but we have a very, very big problem, and child brides are a bad thing that does not belong in Denmark. The automatic separation of asylum partners breaks with international conventions, and we cannot therefore vote in favour of this proposal. This does not mean that we disagree with the fact that the issue is very, very important. It is as far away from Danish culture as you can almost get. We have committed ourselves to complying with the international conventions in this area. We think it is important that we are part of the international legal order, including here. We also feel that the rules that are now being separated, after having had an individual conversation with the authorities, are the ones that need to be applied in this area. I would like to stress that marriages involving the marriage of children do not belong in Denmark. As long as we can live up to this problem within the framework of international commitments, that is the right way forward. So the Left cannot support the resolution, although we have every sympathy for focusing on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125142	A brief comment on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125144	Oh, that's hard. And I just have to say, sir. Mads Birdede clearly expressed why the Left cannot support it. It is the conventions that we do not intend to do anything about. The Social Democratic Party kept away from that. But that is actually fair enough, so I would really like to thank Mr. Mads Birded that he openly says that we have conventions that are completely out of line with reality. We don't like baby brides, but since we have conventions, yes, so be it. That's it, sir. Mads Birde said. Mr. Rasmus Stoklund not. But it is actually the same thing that applies to many of the other rapporteurs, and unfortunately enough to many of them. But that was a realization in any case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125231	I see this in my own indirect way as more of a kind of praise than something I have to respond to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125238	Then we can thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125247	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for this opportunity to talk a little about what a rule of law really is for a size. I am sure I will not quite avoid repeating myself from when we had this debate in the Chamber in the past. This has happened quite a few times before, so I will do that, i.e. repeat myself. I have little left for forced marriages or for child brides or for all sorts of other religious abominations. And as Mr. Mads Fuglede very finely said: It does not belong in Denmark. And I'll probably add: or anywhere else in the world at all. That is why I am also pleased that today, as a starting point, we are separating the refugee couples, one of whom is under the age of 18, because that is what the rules are today. And what this proposal is about is simply breaking the basic right of all people in a rule of law, namely talking to people before engaging in coercion in their private lives. And that is a very good minimum standard, and I find it very difficult to see why it should be a problem. So this proposal from the Danish People's Party is not about protecting girls from religious abuse; it's about replacing the religious abuse with a state instead. And I must admit that I do not understand the logic of that, even as Mrs Inger Løjberg wanted to. And I still don't understand it, when you can actually get in bag and in sack; we can both, and that's the state of law today, and I hope it stays that way. I think it is paradoxical that in the Danish People's Party, on the one hand, people are advocating that it is the girls in the marriages who care about girls who care about them, but who, on the other hand, they do not think should have the opportunity to express their own opinions before the state intervenes in their lives. So the SF is very surprisingly not going to support this proposal, and I will eagerly look forward to Dansk Folkeparti joining us with serious suggestions on how we can stop social control and abuse. It's something we're pretty preoccupied with in SF, so we're always ready to welcome more people into that company. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125515	A brief comment to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125517	I can't believe I thought that was an incredibly strange rapporteur speech. It is really quite remote from reality to be so dismissive and to be so in a, I think, very boring way when you talk about state separation, and I don't know what. I've never heard anything like it. But it has to mean that, no matter what, it really doesn't matter if you just talk a little about things. There's no age concept or anything else; if you just hear the 14- or 15-year-old, it really doesn't matter. Well, that's it, sir. Carl Valentin says that's how the SF sees it. I have to say that if I had been SFs and that is perhaps also why it is a little difficult for me to get to grips with it then I think I would have given a rapporteur's speech, which was a little more timely, instead of saying: Never mind what we ignore it, and it should also be a more serious proposal. Actually, I think that's a little arrogant.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125608	I am sorry that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard thought that my speech was boring and also arrogant, but that is how it must be. For us, it's not about just talking about things, and then it's fine. It's actually about some basic rights. It is about the fact that when there are some girls who are in a very difficult situation where the state intervenes in their lives for good reason, they must also have the opportunity to be heard. It's called a party hearing, and it's part of a constitutional state. I think it is so mistaken that one basically wants to take that right away from them, because that does not mean that one cannot separate the couples, that one hears them first, that the girls are allowed to give their input. On the contrary, we know that some of what happened after this illegal operation, which Inger Løbberg carried out, was that some of these girls ended up committing self-harm, and there were major problems with this, and that is partly because they have not been heard. Of course people have to be heard. So it's a minimum right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125704	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125705	I've noticed that sir... Carl Valentin consistently says girls, and that's right. It's not women, it's girls. A lot of them are little girls. Can't he hear how absurd it really is? It's girls. It's totally grotesque. And then all you have to do is hear that there's talk of girls. I have to admit, I don't understand. On the other hand, I have to say that I think we can stick to the conventions and say that we will do nothing because we have conventions. But I think that the argument put forward by the SF was very strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125738	But I am not defending child bride or forced marriages or anything else, on the contrary. I spend my time talking about the fact that this kind of religious abominations we are extremely opposed to; we will always fight against that. But the point of departure is to separate people when one party is under 18. What we object to here is that we want to deprive the girls of the right to be heard, because it is important that the girls can explain themselves to the authorities so that they can get their perspective into the matter. It's kind of just the tiny thing we're asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125814	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. That is why I would like to welcome Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331125827	Thank you for that, President. When I read the comments on this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, I think that the whole premise for the proposal is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of what the impeachment case against former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Mrs Inger Nøjberg was really about. Although I and many others in countless debates, including in this Chamber, have made this clear, I would like to do so again in honour of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. On 10 February 2016, former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, is giving an illegal instruction to separate couples at the Danish asylum centres. It is a general instruction, which means that there is no individual assessment or consultation of the parties, even if the law prescribes it. The case has never been about whether one should or should not separate couples where one of the married is a minor. The case has always been about whether to follow the rules we have adopted here in the Danish Parliament. And that is what must be done, whether you agree or disagree with the rules. I do not think there should be any doubt about that. That is why I think it is rather strange that the Danish People's Party is making this proposal today. But when the Danish People's Party does so, it must be assumed that it would also be to expect any future minister to administer according to the new rules if the Danish People's Party's proposal gets a majority today. That is exactly how it works in a democracy. The minister does not make the rules; we do so in the Folketing. The minister must abide by the rules. Once this has been established, I would like to address the specific proposal of the Danish People's Party here, namely that the practice should be forward-looking, that married asylum couples should always be distinguished if one is a minor. I do not think that is a good idea. There are undoubtedly cases in which, following a specific and individual examination, a hearing of a party, a reasoned decision can be taken and a decision to separate the couples. You can already do that today. So our rules, as they are today, already ensure the best interests of the child, and they ensure the hearing of the parties, but they also ensure that if you are forced to be a minor, are in a marriage and live at an asylum centre, you are separated from your husband. There may also be cases where there should be absolutely no separation. Let me take one example: if it is now a 17-year-old who is married to a 19-year-old, and together they have two children and are really fond of each other, why do you have to separate them? How does it help a 17-year-old who is already on the run, has fled his homeland and lost everything you have, that you are then also deprived of your partner? I find that hard to see. The rules, as they are today, allow for the separation of those who have to be separated, for the possibility of avoiding forced marriages, for the possibility of guaranteeing the freedom and justice of young women in asylum centres. But the rules, as they are today, are also generally good, Danish administration, namely with individual case handling and party consultation. I must therefore say that I think this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is superfluous. The Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331130157	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mrs Rosa Lund. That is why we move quickly to Mrs Birgitte Bergman from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331130210	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. I'll say I'm a substitute today for Marcus Knuth. So I will read his speech: the Conservative People's Party will vote against the proposal. We have been through a very long discussion on the separation of asylum couples in recent years, it has to be said. It has been made very clear that asylum couples can only be separated from each other on an individual basis, and that is what we think it should be. If the man is 25 years old and abuses the woman, they must of course be separated. If the woman is 17 years old and the man is 18 years old and they have good relations with each other, you do no service by separating them from each other. On the contrary, it is an abuse and it should not take place. It is therefore too square to propose that all couples where the woman is under the age of 18 should be separated from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331130306	You're welcome. It was brief and clear. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331130322	I like the President's evaluation of the rapporteur's speech. The proposal from DF, which we are discussing today, is about separating asylum couples from the asylum system when one spouse is under 18 years of age. The prerequisite for the proposal is that the current asylum system should be maintained. In New Citizens, we disagree that the current asylum system must be maintained, but of course we agree that we should not have child brides in Denmark, even at Danish asylum centres. New citizens want a full stop to spontaneous asylum for migrants from remote regions. It is time to stop the Islamisation of our society and to resolve the immigration policy from scratch. The consequences of decades of failed asylum policy are evident throughout our society, socially, culturally and economically. Thousands of migrants from Muslim countries have come here, have been granted asylum, family reunification and, over the years, have been granted a permanent residence permit or Danish citizenship. Too many today live on the edge of society. They consume solidarity without contributing to the community. They are immigrant gangs, education with violence, forced marriages, formummed women on passive support. This is a sad development. We owe it to the Danes to look after Denmark, and if it were for New Citizens, the proposal we are discussing today would be superfluous, because then it would no longer be possible for migrants from Muslim countries to obtain asylum in Denmark. But as long as power parties such as the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Conservatives insist on continuing to allow the subversive migration from the Middle East, we must deal with proposals such as the one we are discussing today. And in that light, after all, the proposal is a small step in the right direction. That is why we are voting in favour of the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331130520	Thank you so much. There were no brief comments, but it was also brief and clear. I try to stick to some neutral words when I say something. We have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, and this is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331130539	Thank you. Yeah, but it's a quick round, you know. Well, it's just that that's the way it is, and we're just going through it, and there's not a lot of rapporteurs here, and the minister is very brief and actually in relation to a pretty big case, I think. So in Denmark, a child and an adult cannot be married or live in a marriage-like relationship. It is Danish law, and I think that law should apply to everyone. But that's not the way the world is made. A special group is exempt from this. This applies to asylum seekers who come to Denmark and are already married to a spouse who is a child. This is what the Convention on Human Rights says, because that is what it is all about: it is about Danish legislation being disregarded and marriages, where one party is a child, do not necessarily have to be separated. I don't think many people understand what I'm doing at least not and I actually find it outrageous that we in Denmark accept child brides, because that's what we do. The PlanChildren's Foundation runs advertisements on Danish television stations to encourage Danes to give money to stop children's weddings in the Third World while at the same time accepting it in Denmark. One might wonder who the human rights convention is actually put in the world to protect. The European Convention on Human Rights protects the unity of the family, but thereby protects the adult man in such a relationship. Too well the girls need to be heard, yes, yes, but who says a girl dares tell her she's in a marriage she doesn't dare be in? Who says she trusts the Danish authorities enough to tell the truth? Who says she's not afraid of her husband and she's afraid to tell the truth? I think there are a number of people who could argue that this is the way it is. In the Danish People's Party we do not believe that we in Denmark should under any circumstances accept child brides. If you are in Denmark, you must of course follow Danish law. And we all know that children do not get married of their own free will. They do so because they are forced or pressed to do so, and we should not blue stamp it in Denmark by allowing adult men to stay with their child bride. That is why we in the Danish People's Party have tabled the proposal that we are dealing with here first in the Parliamentary Chamber. This is not the first time we have made such a proposal. We already made a proposal on 10 October 2017 that minor spouses should not be accommodated with their adult men. It is therefore appalling that the Folketing does not agree to correct the injustice that it is that adult men can continue to live with their underage spouses in Denmark. Parliament has tried to tighten legislation, such as: by means of Bill No. L 228 from the 2020-21 collection to clarify the provision for the separate accommodation of minors married or cohabiting, but it still appears that if the consideration of the family unit provides for common accommodation and this does not conflict with the best interests of the minor, they must be accommodated together. But as I have already mentioned, it is hard to imagine that a girl will tell the truth about her relationship with a grown man to people she does not know when she has just come to Denmark. And another equally important relationship is that it is forbidden in Denmark to marry a minor. It is sad for those girls that there is no majority in the Folketing prepared to override the Convention on Human Rights, which in this case, as in so many others, seems to take sides with the criminal rather than with the victim. And for the majority of the Folketing it is obviously more important to adhere to an old convention than to ensure that underage girls do not live in Denmark with their adult spouses. As the proposal shows, the parties of the Folketing were initially very concerned about stopping the phenomenon of child bride when the problem came one day in connection with the arrival of Syrian asylum seekers in Denmark. Then virtually all parties would have action. We have discussed this before in the Folketing, where it has been mentioned how many people have been called in consultation and where the Minister has been called to account, etc. But when it comes to legally doing what it takes to let action follow words, it is unfortunately lacking in determination in the Folketing. It seems to be easier to say the right things than to do the right things. In the Danish People's Party, we hope that the parties will consider the matter before the second reading and vote in favour of this proposal, so that we can once and for all put an end to this phenomenon. Child brides don't belong anywhere in the world, and not at all in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131038	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131041	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for her speech. After all, it was a lot about human rights. This is something we really like in the Enhedslisten. Another thing we really like in Enhedslisten is Danish legislation. So I would just like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard to confirm that this case with individual and party consultation has nothing to do with the convention, but that it is quite ordinary Danish administrative practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131107	Yes, but there is no doubt that the convention, which protects the unity of the family, is being applied. That is really what this is all about. Mr. Mads Birde was also kind enough to point out. I do not know why other rapporteurs have not taken it up, because that is really what is at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131125	I myself am very much in favour of the convention and the protection of the family as a unity, but that is not the crux of the matter. The core of the case here is Danish administrative legislation on the right to individual case handling and party consultation. There Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party have a different view, and that is fair enough. However, my view and our clear view in the Enhedslisten is that this is not about the conventions. It is about Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131154	Yeah, yeah, sure. Then we can change it. And that's what this proposal is all about. Well, then we can just do that. There we have a different view than the Enhedslisten. And in my rapporteur's speech I have clearly stated that I do not believe for a moment that underage girls, a child, just so freely when they come to Denmark, say that I would like to live with him, who is perhaps ten years older or more. I don't believe that for a second. That is why I think this proposal should be adopted. If you only consider that it is Danish law, then we do so. But each of us has our own perceptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131229	Thank you very much to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131249	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131323	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. The Left, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, with the resolution we are debating here, proposes a number of different measures to ensure that companies in Denmark have access to attract qualified international labour. I do not want to go through the proposals individually, but these are, above all, measures which, to a greater or lesser extent, reflect the agreement reached by the government with the SF, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats back in January this year. In addition, there are also proposals for the roll-back of some control measures implemented by the government during this parliamentary term together with a majority in the Folketing. Finally, there is a desire for shorter processing times. The proposal that has been the main focus of the debate is the supplementary amount scheme, in which the parties want a limit of DKr 360,000. annual, which should only be open to foreigners from certain countries. In addition, the proposers will make the scheme conditional on unemployment being less than 41⁄2%, and it is proposed that up to 12 000 work permits should be granted under the scheme as a starting point. Finally, it is hoped that the residence permit under the scheme will have a duration of up to seven years. The Government agrees that there is a need for measures to support the Danish economy and remedy the lack of labour. We are currently in a special economic situation with low unemployment and high employment. There is a report of a shortage of labour across industries and it is expected that the pressure on the labour market will continue in the coming years. Of course, we have also discussed and taken stock of that situation, and we have therefore also chosen to move from previous positions. We recognise that there is a need to secure more labour from outside the European Union. However, our position is also that the proposers go too far with the demands that are being made with this proposal, particularly in relation to the limit on the amount and how high unemployment must be before the scheme is closed. Furthermore, I do not quite understand why a person from India should be distinguished from a person from Sri Lanka who comes to Denmark to do the same work under the same conditions. It should not be the passport that determines whether a skilled worker can come here and help our companies. These should be qualifications. We must remember that we are talking here about people who come to Denmark as employees, and if they receive social benefits or commit serious crime, the residence permit will be withdrawn. The government has agreed with the SF, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats that a legislative proposal with a different solution should be put forward, which goes in the same direction but does not go as far as what is being proposed here, because we believe it is important that we take careful steps. With current developments in Europe, it is difficult to predict the challenges that the Danish labour market will face, perhaps also in the relatively short term. This does not change the fact that we have an agreement and have been pleased to have to draft a bill which will be tabled here in April. I hope that a majority in the Folketing will support the bill when we reach the third reading, and I look forward to that too in the Parliamentary Chamber. And it is against this background that the government cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131650	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131655	Thank you. The Minister mentions that he does not understand why a distinction should be made between different countries. After all, the Minister has recognised in many other areas that there are major social problems, that there are major problems with crime, that there are major cultural problems with the population coming here from the MENAPT countries. Is this a position that the Minister has now rejected, because this is about something quite different? Or is it a position that the Minister still has, recognizing that being in the labour market does not only contribute to cultural and social integration into a society?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131737	I also think that there is a difference between the conditions under which you come to Denmark. The people who come here on these business schemes are either people who have an education and who have got a job in Denmark in some of the areas where we lack labour. It could be like engineers or people who come here because they have got a job where they earn relatively much money. And if they lose those jobs, they can't get social benefits, and if they commit crime, they will be expelled. These are quite different conditions than people come here on, for example. asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131812	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131814	Now the Minister says that this is high wages, but a short time ago the Minister said that the limit was too low, but let it be. Does this mean that the Minister believes that if you are at work, you cannot commit crime at the same time? So, can the Minister guarantee that the people who come here from the MENAPT countries and who cause problems for our society are only people who have come here to obtain asylum? Or are there not also some of those who have come here and are in the labour market today who are actually causing problems for our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131850	Now the rules for coming here as an employee have changed over the years, but what I can say is that the people who come here through the occupational schemes generally contribute significantly more to society than the average immigrant coming to Denmark. But that's no wonder, because they come here for the sole reason that they've got a job here. If I have to cut it to the bone, some of the countries from which people come are countries where many Muslims live, for example. Pakistan, India, China and, in the future, Britain too, I believe, and I am not afraid that some will come from the countries that are Muslims and come here on business arrangements. I regard them primarily as engineers, and we need them, so it will only be good if they come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131941	Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331131943	Thank you. The Minister recognizes the need to remedy the shortage of labour, but the agreement made by the government is not, of course, a majority in favour, and that does not mean that we will not be able to resolve the shortage of labour. We are faced with an acute shortage of labour, for the latest figures show that of the job postings being made today, 31% are. of them in vain. So we need to get action taken that makes us all actually get richer. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that people who come up with the amount scheme actually contribute DKK 300 000. to our common society, they make a positive contribution to raising us all together and help create the growth and jobs that we will have to live on in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132037	In general terms, as I just said, Mrs Pernille Vermund, it is a huge economic gain for Danish society when people come here on business schemes, and there are thousands of people who do that every year. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132055	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132056	We have thus seen the joy that there are actually over 300,000 people in Denmark who have come to Denmark and who work here as a foreigner. It's actually really positive. When companies cannot fill the jobs, we miss billions in growth in Denmark. Is it so that the government stands firm on the agreement they have made, or is it so that the government has to find that there is no majority in favour of the agreement that has been made and thus also extends to other parties to make an even better agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132135	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132137	I think I will put it this way that the normal system of amounts has a limit of DKK 448 000. We have been in favour of this by the Social Democrats and by the government, because it must also be balanced. There are also some people in Denmark who work in some industries where wages are medium or low, and we do not think that those people should also compete for their jobs with people from all over the world. They are already competing for their jobs with people from all over Europe. We have then recognised that we would like to reduce that limit considerably, and that is why we have DKK 375 000. in the agreement concluded. In connection with this motion for a resolution and then the DKK 360,000. Perhaps the Left could then consider whether it had not come very far when you come from 448,000 kroner. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that we do not lose sight of the fact that we are not going to vote in favour of the government's proposal because we are not going to have the last small step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132223	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132226	Yes, or the government can consider whether it really is the fact that there is a difference of DKK 15 000. A year that means the government can't vote for this. I think it is quite incredible that we have a government that looks out at Danish society and finds that there are plenty of job vacancies that need to be filled, and that at the same time there are skilled people out in the big world who would like to fill the jobs under the conditions we put on the Danish community, and that the government then says: It is simply too low that they can come here if they can earn from DKK 30,000. a month and up; it must be 1,000 kr. more a month; it must be DKK 31,000. a month before the government wants to join us. What is this nonsense? It is not a responsible government that thinks that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132313	In fact, in a few days' time, we will be tabling a legislative proposal which considerably reduces the limit on the amount, in the light of some political discussions which took place in the Ministry of Finance a few months ago, when, as I have just said, the Social Democratic Party has moved quite a long way. We've moved from 448,000 kroner. for DKK 375,000. It is a huge response to the wishes that have been from Danish business and from the bourgeois parties for a very long time. We hope, of course, that in this parliamentary procedure there will be 90 people in this Parliament who are pressing the green button, because we are putting it forward in order to get it adopted. Otherwise, there was no reason to spend time writing it. There it is, then, that our appeal has been for some time now: should we not just let the dust lie down, and then we hope that there will also be recognition on this side of the Assembly that we have come quite a long way. And I don't suppose it's better to get quite far than not to reach a hundred percent of what you want, that's as low as $360,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132415	The government's proposal reaches a good deal down on the money side, but at the same time it imposes conditions which are difficult to meet for people from the big foreign country who want to go to Denmark to work and for companies who want to hire them. That is why it is also the case that the business community says broadly that what the government is presenting cannot be used for very much. The business community would rather have what we are dealing with here and which can be used for something. So it's no use just setting the line. Then you could set the limit to zero and at the same time make the conditions so hard that no one could ever meet them. Then it doesn't matter what the limit is. How does the Minister feel about the conditions being so harsh in the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132456	It is true that there is more than just the limit that separates this motion for a resolution and then the legislative proposal that will be tabled in a few days' time. One is, for example, that we want wages in Denmark to be paid to a Danish bank account in order to check whether that salary is actually paid. That is not clear from this motion for a resolution. On the contrary, it is clear that that requirement must be removed. Then we also have a different level of when this temporary arrangement is to be closed. The bourgeois proposal here accepts more unemployment, in fact about 20,000 more unemployed, before the window closes to the residence permit on this new scheme, whereas we say that if unemployment increases and also increases quite significantly in relation to the current level, then the window must close, and then we should not invite extra people outside in a situation where people here already go and have nothing to do. So there is also something other than the limit. I agree with that, but I think that the parties to the agreement which have agreed on the basis of the draft law are rather more sensible than the basis of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132600	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments, and I would like to welcome Mr. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132611	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Left, Conservatives, Liberals, Liberals and New Citizens propose that the government should implement ten measures to ensure that companies in Denmark have proper access to attracting labour from abroad. This is proposed, among other things. to introduce a new and more flexible system of amounts in addition to the existing system of amounts, to extend the fixed track system, to relax the Working Holiday scheme and to ensure shorter processing times at SIRI. In the Social Democratic Party, we agree with the proposers that it is important for our business community to have access to the labour we need. In addition, we also agree that the procedure at SIRI should be shorter. Therefore, we have drawn up a positive list for skilled workers, a labour market association scheme and recently agreed to establish a temporary supplementary scheme with a limit of DKK 375,000. Together with the social partners and the KL, we have set aside 12 million. kr., which will help to reduce the processing times in SIRI. For social democracy, it is crucial that foreign workers from third countries come to Denmark on proper pay and working conditions. In other words, we must ensure that the business community has access to the labour they need, while at the same time guarding Danish pay and working conditions. Some of the proposals in this motion for a resolution, such as: The relaxation of the Working Holiday scheme would weaken the conditions on the labour market at home and relax the control of foreign workers coming to Denmark from outside Europe, and we cannot help that. In addition, a draft law was sent to the hearing yesterday aimed at implementing the parts of the agreement on international recruitment and labour shortages concluded in January. The legislative proposal in question contains several of the initiatives that this resolution also contains, for example, on the fast track system and on a temporary supplementary amount scheme, only with minor differences. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132801	Thank you. There is a brief comment from a couple of colleagues. The first is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132810	Thank you. One of the differences between the proposal put forward by the government with individual support parties and the proposal that we are debating today is that our proposal does not allow easier access to people from the MENAPT countries. How can it be important for the Social Democratic Party to lower the threshold and thus make it easier for people from the MENAPT countries to come here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132838-2	First of all, we do not have a desire to lower the limit of the amount as far as, among other things, we do not have a desire to reduce it. New citizens' wishes. That's one part. The proportion is that, yes, it is true that we have some integration problems with people from the MENAPT countries when you look at them as a group, but it is just as a group. This does not change the fact that as individuals there are a lot of people from the MENAPT countries who contribute positively to Denmark, and that is why I think that when discussing social conditions and also discussing legislation, one must distinguish between when one relates to a problem that concerns a group and when it is about some people with qualifications that the industry is looking for, somewhere else in the world that can come to Denmark and contribute positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132920	So if Danish business is asking for more immigrants from Muslim countries, is social democracy willing to relax the conditions for them to come here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331132934	As far as I remember, it's like... India is part of the proposal made by Mrs Pernille Vermund and the company, and there are a number of Muslims living there. And whether or not some of the other countries are covered by Mrs Pernille Vermund's proposal, there are plenty of Muslims in those countries who would be welcome, including in our optics, if they can meet the requirements of the business system, and come here and contribute as engineers, or whatever. So that is not what creates the problems of integration in this country. I would also like to remind you that if you commit crime and you have a residence on a business scheme, you will be sent back home.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133011	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133013	Thank you. In the agreement made by the government with the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats, which therefore does not constitute a majority, it has been outlined that the limit should be reduced, but for a limited period of 2 years. How many people do the rapporteur think on the basis of this then think: my future is going to be in Denmark, now I'm looking for a job, because this is something I can use? And how many companies does the rapporteur think will go into this and use it actively to bring people here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133101	I think a lot of people will. After all, Denmark is a popular destination to come to to work, and there are already historically many who come here on the various business schemes. Now, in the foreign debate, we are discussing most of the problems we have in the field of foreigners, which often involve a relatively small group of people. In other words, when it comes to occupational schemes and those who come to work in Denmark, it is actually a fairly large group, and it is quite popular. And I would also say that it is true that it is only for two years, but it is in return, as far as I remember, five-year work permits, so it is not the case that you arrive and then have to travel again after two years. That's why you have to bring that nuance. I am sure, however, that many people will take advantage of this opportunity, just as many people are already taking advantage of the occupational schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133141	The companies in Denmark do not share the view that this is an open invitation from the government, in relation to the fact that one so sincerely wants to make use of an amount scheme to get people here to work and contribute positively to Danish society. So I just have to say that this is an expression of the fact that the government is so hesitant here and does not want to stamp wholeheartedly into an agreement to get international labour to do so. And they can really make a positive contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133218	Well, there's that difference among others, sir. Hans Andersen's party and my party that Mr. Hans Andersen's optics may be primarily of the opinion that one has a responsibility to protect the interests of the companies, while we believe that we have a responsibility both to protect the interests of the companies but also to protect the interests of the employees and the whole. And that's where you have to find some balances. We've stretched very far. We have drawn from an amount limit today of DKK 448,000 to someone who ^ if this bill, which was sent in yesterday's hearing, is passed, then moves down to DKK 375,000. After all, we have stretched far, and I am sure many companies will be very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133301	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133304	This means that if we look at it on monthly earnings I think most people relate to it in relation to assessing monthly wages it is a monthly salary of DKK 31,000 that you can then come to Denmark on. It seems to me that it is very, very many business groups who could thus see themselves challenged by people who also come from some of the countries in the Middle East from which it is extremely attractive to come to Denmark. I just want to know about Mr. Knox. Rasmus Stoklund will then also confirm that if you get a residence permit under the scheme proposed here by the Social Democratic Party and its parties, you can also bring the family. And how can one actually guarantee that with such a child-rich family from Egypt or Tunisia it will end up being a positive account for the Danish state in relation to institutional places and what else might arise?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133355	I guess I have to answer now? It is true that we want to reduce the limit to DKK 375,000. temporary. It is then, in turn, fenced in by the fact that the job must have been posted in Denmark. It is also fenced in in the way that it must be regulated otherwise and that, if unemployment starts to rise to 3.75%, the system will be suspended again. But I would also like to say that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is in a bit of a bad company if he has this kind of concern, on his own side of the Assembly Hall, because there one has a desire to go further and relax the limit of the amount even more than is laid down in the government's agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133438	I'd like to give a clearer signal. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for question two.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133443	No, I'm in pretty good company because I'm in the company of myself. I do not subscribe to it either, I think, almost as bad proposals as the other bourgeois parties have put forward. But that doesn't change the fact that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund can answer the question. Well, it's not really understood that if we have a person from, for example. Egypt with six or seven children and presumably a single wife who then gets a position in Denmark to 31,250 DKK. in the month, will the whole family be able to come to Denmark and access public institutions and the benefits of having legal residence in Denmark? And sir... Rasmus Stoklund then guarantee that it is a good calculation for the Danish Treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133527	I do not have any calculations on that, but what I can at least see is that when we see today analyses of whether people who come on the various occupational schemes, including the system of amounts, are a positive contribution to Denmark or not, it is clearly a positive contribution, because it is people who are characterised by their coming and working. That is why I am not concerned that it will be a loss business for taxpayers that we go further along that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133554	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133555	The social democratic concerns with a lower limit of money in order to get to Denmark and work are weird, I think. Well, we are talking about a proposal from the blue parties that if you can make 30,000 kroner. We must be allowed to come to Denmark under the same conditions as there are at present. Today it is the case that if you make more than 37,000 kroner, you can. a month. Did Mr. Rasmus Stoklund heard a lot from people who earn 40,000 kroner. or 45,000 kroner. or 50,000 kroner. in the month, that they feel very unfairly exposed to competition in the labour market, because some foreigners can come here to 37,000 kroner. a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133640	No, but it is also another part of the labour market that is not exposed in the same way. In other words, it is clear that if you receive a salary of more than DKK 37 000. It is also true that there is a good wage per month, and there are qualifications that enable you to receive that wage, and there is perhaps also a certain demand for people with those qualifications. And there will be many in unskilled occupations, for example, which will not be protected in the same way compared to competition from people from the rest of the world. And I think that is part of the overall picture. In other words, employers already have the opportunity to recruit throughout the European Union. In addition, I think it is quite a significant response to the wish that you have had in parts of the blue block that you move from a starting point of 448,000 DKK. for DKK 375,000, and that is only DKK 15,000. down to DKK 360,000, which separates us from, among others, Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133743	I can reveal to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Stoklund, that anyone who gets a salary paid every month earns that salary because otherwise they wouldn't have the job. Therefore, you are no longer exposed to undeserved recipient of your salary because you earn $30,000. a month than if you make 40,000 kroner. or 50,000 kroner. a month. Everyone who is at work earns the wages they earn, otherwise they would not have their jobs. It is therefore totally wrong to look at people who serve, for example. 30,000 kroner. on a monthly basis, such as those who are particularly exposed to the labour market and particularly exposed to competition. They do their jobs just as well as everyone else, and they deserve their wages as much as everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133825	I fully agree that they deserve their wages as much as anyone else, but Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is also aware that market mechanisms also work in the labour market, and if there is a large supply of labour willing to make themselves available for a certain amount, it will also help to push the wage if it is attractive for employers to hire someone from that group. And if you look at other parts of the labour market where wages are higher, there will typically not be as many people who can make themselves available, and that is part of the reason why you can then receive higher wages there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133855	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. There are no more brief comments. Well, then, sir. Hans Andersen wanted to make use of the special arrangement that we have, that if you are rapporteur for the proposers, you are allowed to share your speaking time so that you are first rapporteur for your party and then eventually have the chance to be rapporteur for the proposal as well. Here you go, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331133916	Thank you. The government has not lived up to its responsibility to secure labour at a time when companies and the public authorities have needed it. One of the handles we can turn on, which the Left has long fought for, is to make it easier to attract qualified international labour. The government's solution is a temporary arrangement with too many bends and too much trouble. This in no way solves the challenges facing businesses. Their model is inadequate, and there is no majority in favour of it either. And in the situation we are in, we do not need short-term solutions. We need reforms to ensure that our companies have access to the labour force which guarantees growth and prosperity and which will help to finance our future welfare and the green transition. Unfortunately, we have a government that has spent the last three years implementing initiatives that pull people out of the labour market, thereby restricting our companies' access to labour. This is worrying, and it makes Denmark poorer. At last, the government has taken the first step in the right direction, but these are initiatives which only just cover the gap in structural employment created by the government itself. It is simply too unambitious, and when it comes to international labour, a model has been drawn up here which in no way guarantees the labour that companies need. Left wants another way. We want a lot more. We want to ensure that companies have access to the skilled labour they are asking for. First and foremost, together with the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, we want to create a new and improved financial regime. We want a supplement to the existing scheme and will have an amount limit of DKK 360,000. For international labour from the countries with which we have the most trade, permanent. This, contrary to the government's model, must be a permanent arrangement. After all, the wise men agree with our considerations. They say that it will not have a tangible and lasting effect if the limit is raised again in a few years' time. That is why it must be a permanent arrangement. It's a grip that doesn't hurt anyone. Another thing we need to look at is the very, very long processing time in SIRI. Today, it significantly slows down the ability of companies to provide labour. We have seen far too many cases where SIRI does not meet their objectives and responsibilities and where the processing times take far too long. There is a need for a response time of 14 days so that the wheels do not stop. It is precisely a good gain for Denmark when international labour comes to Denmark and works, and today is as much as 10%. of full-time employees in Denmark international labour force. Each person on the current amount scheme contributes an average of DKK 300,000. a year to the Treasury. It is therefore a very good business for Denmark. Foreigners in the system of amounts annually pay 1 billion. kr. to the Treasury. It is money that we can spend on investing in everything that we so much want with our welfare, in relation to our elderly and the green transition. That is why, of course, we hope that the government and also very much more parties will vote in favour of the resolution tabled by the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134258	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134302	I can start by saying that there is no chance at all on this side of the doomsday that the Danish People's Party will support the proposal put forward by the Left and others, among others. I would now like to quote from paragraph 10 where it says: There are a number of troublesome and unnecessary demands for companies that would like to obtain international labour for Denmark. Those requirements should be removed. This applies to the requirement that the salary of employees from outside the EU should be paid to a Danish account and only in cash witnesses. I'd just like Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen to confirm that the salary of the 30,000 DKK, which an Indian, a Mexican, a Chinese then can be paid out by being in Denmark, that is, by the model presented here, can be paid out in other ways than in cash, i.e. by free accommodation, free telephone, free computer, food coupons and other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134400	Thank you for the question. That's right. Today, a pay package may well consist of something other than pure pay. It may consist of free telephone, free car, and I look forward to discussing this with the parties that will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134419	Why don't you guys sit down and talk about it? Well, I think this is on the verge of grossly unsympathetic. We can imagine you can get some Chinese chef and say you get on the paper $30,000. 10,000 kroner. is free accommodation, because it is expensive to live in Denmark, so we'll find some van you can stay in. That's 5,000 kroner. Free food. You can just eat from the buffet. I'll give you an old Nokia 3210. And then we end up at maybe $12,000 paid out. For the Chinese, it's a good business, because he can bring the whole family, wife and children, etc. But what we call it, sir. Hans Andersen is social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134459	We do not support that in the Left. We would like to combat social dumping. However, to make a pay package consisting of free telephone, free car or other modern things that we are now entering into a contract of employment, we think that is quite reasonable and reasonable, and I think that we can find a solution for which we can all support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134525	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen for the first round; he will be back later. And welcome to Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134535	Thank you. For the sake of good order, I should like to start by pointing out that foreign workers do not belong to my rapporteur. This is my colleague, sir. Karsten Hønge, who is an employment rapporteur, but unfortunately he could not be here, and that is why he has put a speech in my hand, which I would like to read on behalf of him. The motion for a resolution is aimed at relaxing the rules on foreign labour. It is planned to do this in ten different ways, which must apply broadly and are not targeted sectors with a shortage of labour. It may not come as a shock to the proposers that the SF is against the proposal, and we are against it for several reasons. On the one hand, we believe that the proposal entails an increased risk of social dumping, more false self-employment and the exploitation of vulnerable workers, and, on the other hand, we are included in the agreement on strengthened international recruitment on fair working conditions and targeted labour shortages from January 2022, where there is a question of targeting regulatory changes in relation to labour shortages industries. Having said that, it is a little funny, because the bourgeois and the employers are happy to talk about supply and demand, but this obviously should not apply to the Danish labour market. It might otherwise be thought that when employers are after the unemployed for them to take the work they can get, employers should also take the labour they can get. There are, for example: According to FH a potential for 27,000 extra full-time people if those who today work part-time and want full-time come full-time. Similarly, the poor working environment causes so many working hours to be lost annually that it corresponds to 22,500 full-time persons. Over 16,000 young people are missing an internship. At the same time, there is discrimination against seniors, so over one in five private employers, applicants are separated by age. It showed an analysis as late as spring 2021. And about 20,000 people over 50 years of age are available. In addition, approx. 16,000 are on unemployment benefit, i.e. searched for flexible jobs, but unemployed. And then Danske Handicaporganisationer has made a study that shows that about 49,000 people with disabilities are ready to take a job within the next 2 weeks. Last but not least, 4,000 unemployed people struggle every year to get to work, even if they're ready for it. So in other words, SF believes that employers also have a responsibility here, and SF cannot support the resolution. And then I should say hello from the Enhedslisten and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134758	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331134810	Thank you very much. The shortage of labour is acute, and from June to November 2021 there were 126,300 unsuccessful recruitments. In 73,000 of the cases, companies did not even get the job filled. So we have a problem. Businesses cannot get the manpower they need. Because this is a major problem for our labour market and for companies, the Radical Left was also very eagerly involved in the negotiations under the heading 'Denmark can more I', and we did so in order to draw the Social Democracy towards making it easier for companies to recruit international labour. We did it. That is what the Minister says from the platform today. Social democracy has moved forward. We are very pleased and satisfied with this in the Radical Left. What we have succeeded in, and the agreement we have, is a reduction in the amount of money, an extension of the fasttrack scheme, an extension of the positive list, an extension of job search for foreign students, etc. The reason why we in the Radical Left want companies to have this additional access to labour is because we want to ensure growth and prosperity and also ensure welfare. Indeed, there are many desires for welfare. There is a desire for more educators in our kindergartens, for better and more staff in the health care system, which is a desire for the green transition. If we in the Radical Left cannot support this motion for a resolution, it is because we have a very good agreement on a bill that is being tabled here one of the days, and indeed because this motion for a resolution calls for a distinction to be made between labour coming from one country and labour coming from the other country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135033	Thank you. There are a number of brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135038	It is just because the rapporteur mentions some of the jobs that, you might say, are citizen-friendly, in other words where you are in contact with children or other elderly people, perhaps, in the public sector. Then I would like to know whether it is some of the jobs that Mrs Samira Nawa regards as natural for foreign labour to enter, or whether she may, as I think it is natural for children to be taken care of in Denmark, that one can then also speak the language that the children typically master.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135108	I think that is a very good condition for filling the job that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt points out there, because languages are also in several positions a competence. The Danish language is a competence if you are going to work in a kindergarten, for example. It's self-evident. But there are a lot of jobs that companies are looking up, where it is also good to master English, and then have a number of other skills that you may not be able to find here among the labour force that is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135143	Thank you. When we look at the proposal we are discussing here today, one of the things that I will certainly come across as one of the most unsympathetic, is that which I also mentioned to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Hans Andersen, about the fact that you want to make it possible for your salary to be paid in other ways than in cash, i.e. cash. You can use food coupons, free accommodation and things like that to bring down your wages. How does the Radical Left view this? Is it a road but also along with the other bourgeois parties would like to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135214	It's not something we're too scared to talk about. That could be a way to do it. But I know where mr. Mr Messerschmidt would like to go, and that is where he also led the question to Mr Messerschmidt. Hans Andersen in relation to social dumping. There we have clear rules in Denmark, and we must not exploit labour. Of course, when it comes to social dumping and illegal practices, we are opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135241	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135246	I understand that the Radical Left has drawn the Social Democracy as far as the Radical Left could, and that is what was the majority for. But if we ignore that, does the Radical Left not think that the proposal that is on the table here, apart from the distinction between workers from certain countries, which the Radical Left does not like, is actually better than what the Radical Left has agreed with the Social Democracy, as far as the Radical Left could draw the Social Democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135326	If we start removing elements of the proposal we are discussing here, for example. the obvious discrimination, which is also part of it, then there are some things that go beyond what we have agreed with the government. Is that a bill that we, among others, are proposing? Has agreed with the government and other parties, radically? No, it's not. But we have been dragged, among other things. Social democracy and SF really far? Yes, we do. And how I would like and I still hope that there is a great deal of support for it to be implemented so that companies can have easier access to international labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135414	But when you look at what the Radical Left has been able to draw the Social Democratic Party into, then I have to see if the starting point is that today we have so much trouble in hiring foreign labour • just lower the bar 1 cm or something. There are still huge problems and what the Radical Left has agreed with the Social Democratic Party does not do very much. It's gonna be a tiny bit better, but it's not even better on a scale that makes you think you've done something about this problem. That's what the blue proposal does. It's gonna do something about the problem. Is Mrs. Samira Nawa willing to admit it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135451	No, I think you can stretch it there inches to be 10 cm, all the time that the agreement contains quite a lot of other elements too, both with a focus on investment in education, but also with a focus on increasing the supply of work. Then you can look at the proposal that we are dealing with now. Well, there are elements in it that I think could be cool just to bring into the other bill. But it is an agreement that we have reached; we have drawn the Social Democracy, the Government, very far on that issue. And we are actually talking about a government that, among other things, has been in place. The Liberal Alliance has also been sitting, but where the Danish People's Party forever and always stuck a stick in the wheel, so you could not get an agreement to lower the limit of the amount, and so you could not get an agreement to get more foreign labour to Denmark. And Mr. Morten Messerschmidt sits and nods proudly, I see. But right here the Radical Left has actually succeeded in a constellation where it was not the SF or the Social Democracy or the Enhedslisten, but indeed the Radical Left, who thought that there should be easier access for companies to foreign labour. And then it's just that I have to put my trust and hope that you can see it with, among other things. Liberal Alliance, so they think: we simply have to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135618	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135620	Thank you. In 2018, the VLAK government presented a proposal to lower the threshold for 10 specific countries. At that time, the Radical Left voted in favour. Today we are tabling a resolution extending the ten countries to include a group of additional countries which are the countries which have visa-free access to Schengen. Now the Radical Left says that discrimination is being discriminated against. What is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135649	Well, the logic is that, I would say to Mrs Pernille Vermund that every time Mrs Pernille Vermund has spoken to ask a question here, there has been a focus on not wanting people from the so-called MENAPT countries to Denmark as a labour force. And did the Radical Left vote in favour of a similar proposal in 2018? Yes, we did. Was that a mistake? Yeah, it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135717	But that means that it is not the proposal as it stands, but the intentions of the individual parties behind the proposal, which the Radical Left opposes. I thought the Radical Left was a party that had shelved the symbolism policy when Morten Østergaard swam to an island to prove that one could. I mean, what's that? Should we now start to make legislation and work against each other in legislation if we agree with the text of the law, but do we disagree with the intentions behind it? That just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135749	This isn't about intentions. I think it is fairly clear that, both in intention and in practice, it makes a distinction between countries. After all, there are 30 countries from which we can get to Denmark with this motion for a resolution... not only in intention, but also in practice. And if it were only the intention that we in the Radical Left were against, then I would not stand here and say it was a mistake to vote in favour in 2018. But it was
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135815	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135817	Thank you. The radical rapporteur and I have, of course, had the Minister in consultation a number of times with the aim of reducing the processing times for applications to be allowed to work here in Denmark. Could the rapporteur not explain how much extra money would be needed to reduce the processing times provided for in the agreement supported by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135853	Yes, and thank you for the good cooperation, as sir. Hans Andersen and I have had here, because we agree that it cannot be right that it should be the processing time that delays the process of good, skilled employees going in and working straight away on those companies that have such a strong labour shortage. And we in the Radical Left are concerned about reducing the length of the proceedings, and the Minister has also indicated that he would like to do so. The funds are also available for this. And that is something that we in the Radical Left are going to pursue, hopefully together with the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135935	Then it's the questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331135938	However, as I read the agreement, no additional funds have been set aside. Funds were set aside in the autumn to reduce the length of the proceedings, and that is to say, it is not going very well. And that is why we need to do more, because one thing is that we change the criteria for coming here, but something else and crucial is that the processing time is reduced and substantially reduced. The companies can't use this for anything, and those who, incidentally, are looking for it elsewhere if they have to wait several months. That is why I would just like to ask: how can the Radical Left enter into an agreement where no extra funds have been set aside to reduce the length of proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140014	But I am very concerned about the length of the proceedings, and the questioner knows that too. And I think that we should jointly stop the Minister from having to cut back on the length of the proceedings both in general terms, but also where doctors and dentists from abroad are being looked at, where there is also an unreasonable length of time for them to obtain their authorisation, so that they can enter the Danish labour market. And in the end, if it doesn't get delivered, it could be that mr. Hans Andersen and I should go together and see if we could make a resolution on exactly that and then hopefully agree on where the funding should come from. I would very much like to work together on this if the processing time is not improved as we wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140059	Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. There are no more brief comments, and that is why I would like to welcome Mr. Morten Messersschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140118	Thank you, exhortation. Denmark lacks labour, both public and private. And it's as if it's become such a redeeming word... whether it's the other bourgeois parties or whether it's the united left wing... that it has to be handled by importing more foreigners into Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party do not think this is necessarily the right solution. We have very much unsolvable labour potential in Denmark. We are already in the process of resolving part of it, among other things. by the agreement we have entered into in Denmark, we can do more than that, where we are among other things. removes some of the set-off rules that make a great many people today unwilling to make an extra effort. A good friend of mine is a prisoner, his wife is an early retirementist, and every time he had to take extra work to relieve his colleagues, yes, it is set off in early retirement, so the income for the household is unchanged. The only thing that changes is that he has less free time. And who cares? That is why we must remove this kind of set-off rules, just as it is good that we have taken steps in the same direction in relation to the SU, where many young people would like to work alongside the studies with something relevant to the economy. It makes sense. We also have structures in the labour market that we need to do away with. Too many people are rejected in their job application because of their age alone. People over 50 years of age have an unnaturally high rejection rate when it comes to applications, and we have to do something about that. So there are plenty of things to grab before resorting to the solution that the business community will obviously love, namely to get some more foreigners to Denmark. In this model we have had two suggestions. One from the united left, which for many reasons is a bad proposal, among other things. Because it does not have the exception that we have seen on the less united right, but an exception in relation to the Muslim countries in the Middle East. And why is it that one should have the exception? Yes, of course, it is because it is not only the person concerned who may get work in Denmark that can come here. It is also the whole family, and we know very well that the very child-rich family from the Middle East will love to have the opportunity to take the first, the best Ryan Air plane from Madras, or wherever it may be, to Denmark, where father or mother can be at work, and the whole group of children can follow. And we will not accept that in the Danish People's Party. This has been tried to deal with in the bourgeois camp, i.e. the bourgeois parties, as well as the Danish People's Party, by excluding the so-called MENAPT countries. Unfortunately, some other problems have been encountered, among others. Mr President, what I said to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Hans Andersen, where I can't even understand how you can say to someone who will then have 30,000 kroner. In its contract of employment, it is quite right, moreover, if it is not paid out in cash. I cannot understand why, in a liberal party, one can have so little creative sense that one cannot see how it opens up to an insanely large abuse. It is possible that as an Indian or Chinese or Mexican or from another of the colorful countries from which the bourgeois proposal here has arrived, there should be easy access to Denmark, not see it as attractive to come here, not only yourself, but also the whole family, and to a salary that may be 18,000 DKK. or 16,000 kroner. or DKK 12,000, and that it doesn't take very much creative thinking out in the whole country to find out how the gap up to the DKK 30,000. can be supplemented with things in particular in kind. I think it is rather unsympathetic to start paying people in kind, because of course it will not just be free telephone, or what do I know, as Mr. Hans Andersen mentions. It will of course be free accommodation, food vouchers and all the kind of things that you will move into to make sure that these people can come to you for a Danish salary level very low, but a salary that for an Indian, a Chinese and others can still be defended, all the time that it is not just him or her who comes, but the whole family that gets access. So these are two bad suggestions. One of them is being dealt with today, and on the grounds that I have given here, the Danish People's Party will vote nicely no thanks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140620	Thank you. There are two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140633	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt is a young man and must therefore be forgiven for not having had a house and needed craftsmen before the Poles and other Eastern Europeans had the opportunity to come to Denmark and help Danish homeowners to have their homes renovated. I had a house then, and it was some crazy prices that the Danish craftsmen demanded to be allowed to work at our houses. When the Poles arrived, we welcomed them because we no longer had to finance the artisans' golf membership and their membership of various country clubs etc. through our scarce savings, which could be used to renovate homes. - Sir... Morten Messerschmidt does not see the positive in that ordinary people are able to afford ordinary things because there is no shortage of labour and that some people, for example, may come. from Ukraine to Denmark? What is really the terrible thing about people coming from Ukraine to Denmark if they accept that people can come from Poland?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140735	First of all, I would like to mention that I live in a house and I also own a house, and I also have craftsmen. We actually have in the company I'm involved in running, employing craftsmen, blacksmiths, carpenters, electricians, etc. I assume that it meets the definition of ordinary people, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen excels in. They are lovely people, and they are Danes, by the way, but it is not because you cannot be a lovely person, even if you are Polish or Ukrainian or even a member of the Liberal Alliance. There can be long distances in many areas, and yet people can be lovely people. What's so funny about that question, sir. Mr Ole Birk Olesen makes the point that it has nothing to do with the proposal he has put forward, because Poland is now part of the European Union, regardless of the proposal he, Mrs Pernille Vermund and others have put forward. So, sir. Ole Birk Olesen can be pleased to have all the Poles he wants home in his backyard, in his frontyard and in the attic and in the basement, but that is not what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140832	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140833	It's a rhetorical chatter, but we're used to it when Mr. Simpson... Morten Messerschmidt can't answer the specific question and we'll have some rhetorical chatter. I asked him because Mr. Morten Messerschmidt didn't know about the conditions as a homeowner until the Poles were allowed to come to Denmark. If it was a happy situation when we could only hire Danish craftsmen. And the answer to that is: No, it was not a happy situation. So I asked: what is the real problem with not only Poles being able to come to Denmark, for example. as craftsmen, but that too, for example. Ukrainians can come to Denmark as craftsmen? Because they cannot do so, as the system is today. They cannot meet the high threshold, and they are not EU citizens, so they cannot come to Denmark. Those were the two questions I asked, and it would be nice if you could have something other than rhetorical chatter from the otherwise rhetorical chatter master of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331140920	Thank you for your compliments. In other words, it works in the private labour market, as in all other capitalist systems, that there are two units which determine the price of a product, and pay is the price of labour. And if the wage for a particular job is too high, you can, for example, pay for a particular job. open up a huge supply so that there will be more craftsmen... you can do that by opening up internationally, which is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's solution, but isn't it actually a declaration of bankruptcy? Should it not be the case that, if the salary is so high, something was mentioned about golf clubs, reading clubs and everything else so in itself would be so attractive to become a craftsman that the market regulated itself? So my answer would be that it is a declaration of failure that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen must have Ukrainians and all kinds of foreigners to correct the market mechanisms which he actually salutes himself, because logically this should lead to more people wanting to be carpenters, and then the price should fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141015	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141017	Thank you. The rapporteur prides himself on the agreement that Denmark can do more. To say the least, it's a punk, to tell you the truth. We have companies screaming for labour. We have a welfare sector where we lack warm hands for our core welfare. The agreement made by DF with the red parties closes the gap after Arnepensionen, and then there will be another one between 1,500 and 2,000 sets of hands towards 2030 in a situation where companies say that it is far, far more hands that are already missing. Does the rapporteur recognise that when this labour is not available and there are goods that are not being produced, then it becomes more expensive to be a Dane?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141104	I certainly do. We certainly have a problem with lack of labour in Denmark. What I am just saying is that Mrs Pernille Vermund's proposal to solve the problem is incredibly unsympathetic, and that is what I explained both in my speech and to Mr Vermund. Hans Andersen earlier. We would like to see a look at how to free up some of the labour that is not being exploited in Denmark today. It could be the seniors who cannot enter the labour market and it could be in relation to removing the set-off rules that make it not attractive to take a job. And if you look abroad, you could look at the 12-13 million EU citizens who are out of work and who, without any restrictions, can come to Denmark. Ole Birk Olesen spoke of earlier. The proposal made here by Mrs Pernille Vermund is unsympathetic. All sorts of types I think it's 84,000 over the next few years you can imagine coming to Denmark from India, China, etc. to very low wages, and they can take the whole family with them. However, we have an alternative, and I would like to present it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141203	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141205	What is unsympathetic is to enter into an agreement with the red parties, in which this problem is by no means solved, and then afterwards it stands and talks about, among other things. Americans, Canadians, New Zealanders, etc., as if it is some who want to come here and live in a cheated way, and as if Danish companies are some who fake in one away. So, listen to this: We have so many Danish companies, which are good Danish companies, and who want to have employees employed on proper terms both in terms of pay and in terms of work. In fact, if we are to turn it around, it is relatively unsympathetic that we are standing here as rapporteur for a nominally bourgeois party, have put our votes in a red agreement that does not solve the problem, and then even the buy-out falls out of Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141255	But I'm not ashamed of Danish companies. I'm ashamed of Mrs. Pernille Vermund. There is something she has completely misunderstood here, because what I am pointing out is what would be legal if Mrs Pernille Vermund's proposal were adopted. Then it would be legal for a Chinese, Indian, Mexican and others from the part of the world that Mrs Pernille Vermund doesn't talk so much about coming to Denmark to work for 30,000 kr. a month, bring the whole family, and an indefinable part of the salary does not need to be paid out in money, but can be paid out in the form of food vouchers, free accommodation and all sorts of other creative things. I think that the Danish business community is very, very creative, but to say that it is fake is wrong, because it is not. Because Mrs Pernille Vermund is going to do this very, very unspeakable completely legally... it's black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141337	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no more brief comments. That is why I would like to welcome Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141410	Companies are crying out for labour, and everywhere in our core welfare there is a lack of warm hands. The government's big battle number • Denmark can more solve the problem, and with Radical Left announcements in the press and on social media, there seemed to be a short-term majority for sensible civil reforms. With the bourgeois opposition, the government and the Radical Left could have made a financially responsible agreement. One could have increased the incentive to give it an extra shell for all of us who are already in the labour market. One could lower or completely remove the passive support from migrant workers, so those who can, but will not, have given them a much needed boost to the labour market. One could have cut cold hands in the public sector and exchanged them for warm hands, for core welfare. And you could have made it easier for Danish companies to recruit competent labour from outside. But you didn't. The government's big battle number ended as a phony, and the consequence now is that companies everywhere in the country have gone out of another quarter, where they have had to say no to orders because they lacked labour. This is an unsustainable situation for companies and it is politically deeply irresponsible. That is why we are here today in the hope that we can get the government to take responsibility. With today's resolution, our aim is to look after Denmark and the Danish economy. Politicians should not put Danish companies in a situation where they are forced to say no to orders and thus turnover that creates economic growth, prosperity and welfare because they cannot get qualified employees to carry out the tasks that need to be solved. Therefore, Danish companies must in future have better opportunities to attract skilled labour if unemployment is low. In concrete terms, we are proposing ten measures, and of the ten measures I would like to highlight here the new, improved amount system. Today we have an amount regime that applies to all countries. As an addition to this system of amounts, we wish to reduce the limit to DKK 360,000. a year for international labour from a number of countries with which we have good experience in economic, social and cultural terms. Similar proposals have been made in the past. In 2018, the VLAK government presented a proposal to lower the threshold for the countries with which we have the most out- and in-depth investments. The proposal dealt with a total of ten In the present proposal, the list of ten countries originally proposed by the VLAK government and supported by the Radical Left has been extended to include the countries with which Denmark and the other Schengen countries have well-functioning cooperation. Specifically, it is measured by whether visa freedom exists for visitors to Schengen from the countries concerned. The scheme must be open as long as unemployment is below 41⁄2%. and the number of permits has been less than 12,000 per year. If these limits are reached, new residence permits will be closed. Residence and work permits obtained under the scheme may have a duration of 7 years. As an addition to the existing financial system, it is our hope that Danish companies will in future get easier to attract international labour without, at the same time, increasing the cultural and social problems resulting from migration from the MEAPT countries. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141753	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141756	Yes, thank you, President. I should just like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund about the fact that the European Union wants to remove the requirement that wages should be paid in cash. Is that all the pay? That is not clear from the proposal. Is it only part of the one that can be paid in the form of food vouchers and free accommodation etc., or is it the entire salary of 30,000 DKK. a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141821	The aim here is to equate an American or someone who comes from another country and wants to work in Denmark with Danish employees. Today it is the case for Danish employees that, as part of your salary, you may receive e.g. free car, get part of the home paid or have one, what to say, a little better canteen arrangement than would otherwise have been possible if you had to pay for it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141847	So how much of the pay for the Indians, Chinese and other good people from Asia and Mexicans that Mrs Pernille Vermund will let in I think it's 84,000, isn't it, over a few years you plan to be paid out in real money, and how much must be put into benefits that you can physically hand out? What's the share?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141910	The goal is that we equate them with Danish employees. That is why it does not make sense for us to decide politically whether to have access to free telephone when you are a national of another country, if you have the opportunity to do so when you are a Danish citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141926	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141928	Thank you. I would like to hear from Mrs Pernille Vermund about this list of countries that we would like to have for the new system here: does the rapporteur think that it is the same list of countries as the current system of amounts?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331141953	We would have liked to have seen, if it had been up to us alone, that the ceiling for the countries with which we know we have problems had been raised and that the ceiling for the countries which are unproblematic was then reduced. It must, of course, be an option that one has on an ongoing basis, so that if society develops in a direction that is inappropriate, one can move on these limits.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142017	But that is of course very interesting, because then we must tell the companies that new citizens are ready to restrict their ability to recruit international labour from certain countries to which they currently have access. But would Mrs Pernille Vermund also say a few words about why that is a certain amount? So, for some people who come from one country, it is fine if they come at a higher amount and not at a lower amount. Why is the cultural, economic and social difference, as Mrs Pernille Vermund points out, so strongly linked to a certain amount of money?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142054	But it has never been a secret that we have no problem getting immigrants here from the countries with the nationalities who are doing well in Denmark. It is not just economics, it is also a matter of culture, it is a question of seeing the relationship between men and women and so on. That is why we have said from the outset that from the countries with which we have notoriously poor experience of these countries we should make it harder for people to come here because we have so much problems in advance, and it is not just about them not being in the labour market. It is also about how they educate their children not to deal with themselves, not to comply with our legislation and to become increasingly Islamised.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142135	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142145	The wealth of Danish society is very much a product of how many people work in Denmark and how great values they then produce when they go to work. And in these years we are faced with the challenge that companies have filled order books and could produce more wealth for themselves, for their owners, for Danish society, if they could employ more people, but they can only do that in many subjects because there is a very large shortage of labour. That is why we can be pleased that it is possible to obtain, for example. Polish employees for Denmark, Swedes for Denmark, Germans for Denmark. It helps us to remain a prosperous society, and it ensures our membership of the European Union that we can. However, we could benefit even more from hardworking and skilled people from other countries if we were to be able to hire more outside the EU countries as well. There are, for example: We have already had many Ukrainians in Denmark on a special scheme for agriculture, with which we have only positive experience. We have a clear expectation that if we could not have had the Ukrainian agricultural workers in Denmark, then our agriculture would have great challenges in making things run around and compete on international markets. But why should we not also be able to hire Ukrainians in, for example, the United Kingdom? Danish craftsmanship, like we have Polish craftsmen in Denmark? Yes, there is legislation against that, because we have an amount system that requires you to earn DKK 450,000. a year, that is, 37,000 kroner. in order to be allowed to work in Denmark as Ukrainians. It's a high amount of money. Even if the craftsman's wages are high, it is still a high amount of money to hire an employee from Ukraine who does not know the Danish language and who is not familiar with engaging in a Danish craft work space. That is why we have put forward this proposal to make it easier to take labour to Denmark. One might ask: do we not have our own citizens that could be recovered in Danish society? Yes, we do. Denmark has a world record in the proportion of people of working age who are on transfer income. They are on cash benefits, they are on cash benefits, they are on early retirement, they are on early retirement, they are now also on Arnepension. They are on the numerous schemes that we have in Danish society and which are the world's most generous schemes. That is why we have a high proportion of people of working age who are not in work and if you could make some reforms; if the Folketing could pull itself together to make some reforms that encouraged these people to be in work instead of being on transfer income, then everything would be much easier. Unfortunately, however, there is not the backbone of the Danish Parliament, of a majority in the Danish Parliament, so you make some reforms that batt something, compared to the Danes who are not in work. Another solution is therefore to say: Well then we take some who offer themselves from the great world. There is no Danish early retirement pension, Danish early retirement pension or Danish Arnepension in Ukraine or India or Mexico, and therefore one could imagine that there are people who want to make an effort in Denmark in return for being able to earn a salary higher than the salary in the countries from which they come. And me and we in the Liberal Alliance think that way we should go. We should do both, but if in the Danish Parliament there is no majority in favour of labour market reforms that battling, then at least we must allow our companies to employ diligent people, including from outside the EU, who are willing to work in Denmark. To the question of why it should only be from certain countries and not other countries, the answer is simple: we have good agreements with a lot of countries in the world that if their citizens do not behave properly in Denmark, then we can send them home. There are other countries in the world that do not accept their own citizens, and that is why, if they come home as workers and behave badly, we find it difficult to send them home to their own countries because their own countries will not accept them if they do not come voluntarily. And that is why the motion for a resolution makes a distinction between countries that accept their own citizens and with which Denmark has an agreement and countries that do not accept their own citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142636	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142640	I just have to ask why you're so unambitious. If it is the case that Danish wage developments, the Danish labour market and the quality of artisan jobs only improve, that is to say that there are only advantages in getting as much foreign labour as possible, why do we settle for 12,000 per year and then only for 7 years? Well, that's incredibly unambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142707	But the Liberal Alliance is open to more. Here is a limit of DKK 360,000. A year, that is, 30,000 kroner. a month. The Liberal Alliance has the view that anyone who can earn what corresponds to the minimum wage fixed in Denmark must be allowed to come to Denmark and work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142729	Everybody as in everyone? So, should there be no limits, should there not be something called job permits or work permits or anything from any country around the world, as long as you have a job and comply with Danish law and the agreements that apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142746	Yes, what we want is that the amount in the amount system we have today, where all those who live up to the amount can come to Denmark, regardless of how the work situation is in the subject from which they come, should be reduced to what corresponds to the Danish minimum wage; then you should be allowed to come to Denmark. And then there must be strict rules that if you do not behave properly in Denmark, that if you commit crime or participate in anti-democratic, social-subversive activities, then you have to be sent back home.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142818	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no more brief comments. Then we shall hear the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Hans Andersen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331142830	Thank you. On behalf of the Left, Conservative, New Civil and Liberal Alliance, I should like to thank you for the debate and discussion on how we can ensure that Denmark gets richer, that growth can continue and thus we can also afford our welfare, both in terms of better care for the elderly and better hospital care, but also investments in our green transition. It is true that we have tabled a motion for a resolution here on attracting qualified international labour to Denmark on fair working conditions and presented ten initiatives, including, as we have mentioned in some cases, a new and improved system of amounts, but of course also an extension of the fast track system, the extension of periods of residence in the operating and feed master scheme, which we have also briefly touched on here today, shorter response times and changed the process of SIRI and the removal of cumbersome and unnecessary demands. This all helps to ensure that the growth we are currently seeing can continue. After all, we are about to be able to look into a long period of labour shortages, and that is why we believe that we should invite people here who want to contribute and can contribute to making Denmark stronger and richer. I understand that the government is not saying yes to that right now. The government has put forward its own proposal for a solution, but there is no majority for that either. It is true that it is, of course, a proposal for a slightly lower amount system, but it is worth noting that it is a temporary reduction in the limit and therefore a temporary system. The same thing was said by the Socialist rapporteur, and I just have to see it and question why it should be temporary. We look into a period here where there is a shortage of labour as far as the eye can see. The National Association of Municipalities has also pointed this out a number of times. So we look into the fact that we need labour not only today, but also tomorrow and the day after. The Socialist People's Party has entered into an agreement with the government and, in relation to what the Socialist People's Party has said in the past, they have moved, for Mr. Karsten Hønge has criticized at least a number of times the Left and other bourgeois parties who wanted to change the amount regime, and even had the understanding paper included that things had to happen to prevent people coming here and working and helping us all get richer. But you just have to say that the SF has turned around. I don't quite know if they've got Mr. Kim. Karsten Hønge is in that turn, but there is at least a very different place from before. Then I can say that the Radical Left is satisfied. I regret this, because the Radical Left and the Left have been pushing for a long time to improve conditions and opportunities to come to Denmark and work. I just have to say that it is a temporary arrangement for which the Radical Left has entered into an agreement, and that the waiting times in the SIRI are still very high here and now, and that certainly limits the possibility of coming here. Then there is the Danish People's Party. That is, of course, a clear position, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt announces today. I then see a challenge in solving the problem of labour shortages. In other words, there is little help from the Danish People's Party, either in relation to private companies or to the public sector, which is crying out for labour and which is to ensure that there are employees in our nursing homes and hospitals in the future. It should be an attempt to pick up a little on the excellent debate we have had, and I should just like to call on, on behalf of the Left, Conservative, New Civil and Liberal Alliance, that we should now try to reach an agreement here to ensure that we are actually helping companies out there to provide labour. It is not just private companies; it is also public companies that are so lacking in hands and heads. Right now, we have 126,000 in vain recruitments. Today, we are losing both growth and momentum, and thus also the opportunity to maintain our welfare in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143340	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143344	I fully share the concern for the Danish business community. I can say that we are experiencing it ourselves at the moment. We are about to hire employees for the season at the Dyrehavsbakken, and it is far, far more difficult than it used to be. So I'd like to be excused if I didn't have to acknowledge the problem here. I think I'm more in touch with it in everyday life than sir. Hans Andersen himself does. Wherever the difference is, compared to what we do about it. Well, now I know Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen's point of view, and I have also read his proposal, but what I would like to hear his assessment of is the very liberal idea which his co-author Mr. Ole Birk Olesen advocated; that is, simply a model where you have no restrictions at all, where, whether you come from India or the United States, Russia or China, in case you can work in Denmark for collective pay and according to applicable law, you should be welcome. Is this a model of which the Left, who has been in government with the Liberal Alliance, could in fact be ensnared?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143453	We really like the proposal we have put forward as in very good. After all, when we were in government, we were working on the very same ideas about a limit of DKK 360,000. So we stand firm on that, and we think that is a very good way to reach out to companies and ensure that they can actually get some labour. And then I fully acknowledge that you have and will have problems and challenges this year in providing employees with respect to all kinds of terms of employment at Bakken, but that doesn't change the fact that, in this proposal, we can make the opportunities for you to succeed with your task better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143544	Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143545	No, I'm not entirely convinced of that. I don't think it's gonna be the same experience to have some Chinese employee on the radio cars. Well, it's just very nice, also for the sake of safety and such things that people can speak the same language... let alone talk about one of the tasks I take myself, namely on the horse game, where you want to stand and comment a little. Now I speak incredibly badly Chinese, but I think our customers do too. But it is just to say that I fully recognise the problem, but I just think that the solution that Mr. Hans Andersen and the other bourgeois parties are not the right way forward. Why is it that the 12 million people in the European Union are not being targeted? In other words, there are 12 million outside the workforce in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143619	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143620	I am absolutely convinced that if this is the way for companies in Denmark, then it will be tested and I have noted that too. But obviously it didn't work out. I do not know whether it has anything to do with the weather or what I can just say that they are not coming from Spain and Italy here to work; they are very, very welcome. And if they did, and if anyone else came from Ukraine and Australia and the United States and took some jobs, there might be more people who wanted to be hired afterwards, Danes, at Bakken.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143655	Mrs. Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143656	Thank you very much. We can take a business owner who lacks labour. He looks around the world and finds exactly the manpower he needs, and wants to pay these 360,000 kroner, but checks into the Left's country list and sees that hooves, the country doesn't appear on that list. Why does the Left know better than companies where to recruit from?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143729	We have made this agreement where we say that the starting point is 59 countries, and it is actually 4 billion people who are now supporting this proposal, and I really hope that radicals will be minded and that they will have the opportunity to apply to Denmark if they have a salary equal to 360,000. We think this is a very good starting point, and I think that companies will also think it is a good thing. Because that is far better than the opportunity they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143800	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143801	It seems to me that the Left has given Mrs Pernille Vermund all the power to decide how this motion for a resolution should be put together. Because if you listen to the questions of New Citizens, when you listen to the rapporteur's speech by New Citizens and also to the answer given to me by Mrs Pernille Vermund when I asked questions a moment ago, there is no doubt as to what the intention is. So will the Left continue along that path and also pursue the idea of new citizens that further national borders should now be introduced and that the limit should be raised for some countries and reduced for other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143838	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143839	The proposal before us today is, in fact, an extension to the agreement that we in the Left and in the Radical Left have voted in favour of in the past to say from which countries and which people can come here and be covered by the system of amounts. So we are really very pleased that it is now from 59 countries and the inhabitants who live there that have the opportunity to come here. So I can only call for radical support around that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143908	Thank you. I do not see that there are any more requests for short remarks, which is why we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143924	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331143942	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. With the proposal we are debating today, the government is required by the end of the year to draw up and implement a model to ensure that Denmark receives a minimum of 500 people a year who have fled due to extreme climate and environmental changes and to notify them of humanitarian residence permits, that is, a quota system that will operate in parallel with the quota system for refugees. The latest figures from the UN Refugee Organisation show that in 2021 the number of displaced persons exceeded 84 million people, which is before the conflict in Ukraine. The World Bank expects 216 million to be displaced from their homes due to climate change by 2050. In other words, we are in a crisis of protection, which is only getting worse year by year. Many millions of refugees and internally displaced persons will need our help in the future, and we must be ready for that. But the solution is not to offer accommodation to more and more people in Denmark. As the government has said many times before, we must instead find a new way forward. Our wish is that all the displaced people of the world should be helped, of course, but also that this should be done primarily in the neighbourhoods, as it is here, help is best given and we come the longest. That is why the government wants humanitarian aid to be given greater priority to helping refugees and displaced persons closer to the conflicts. Never before has our development aid been so focused on proximity, migration and fragile states as it is now. We have to hold on to that. With this as a starting point, therefore, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144122	There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144126	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. The minister said we must receive more and more. Then I would like to know how many climate refugees it is that the Minister thinks we have received so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144139	I should have liked to say that the solution is not to offer accommodation to more and more people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144155	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144156	I thought that there is, and we receive some in advance, in other words, in order to be able to say more and more. But leave it alone. What is the Minister's suggestion as to how we are actually helping in the neighbourhood? And how does that match the fact that we are now using that pool to receive Ukrainian refugees at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144214	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144215	But if you have to say it very briefly, it is the case that half of the people seeking asylum in Denmark are refused. In other words, half of the costs we have in our asylum system are actually going to people who do not need protection at all. And then we have huge costs and problems in sending out people who have been denied asylum. So we spend a lot of the money that should have been spent on refugees on people who do not need protection at all. We should have used that money more as part of our development aid, for example. to finance the UN refugee work in Lebanon or Jordan or wherever it is. They're doing a very big job.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144251	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments and we are going to start the rapporteur's round. It's first, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144300	With this motion for a resolution, the Free Greens propose that a model be drawn up and implemented to ensure that Denmark receives a minimum of 500 people who have fled each year due to extreme climate and environmental changes and to grant them humanitarian residence permits. In social democracy, we believe that the climate crisis is the biggest and most important challenge of our time. That is why we have decided to take the lead in the work to make one of the world's most ambitious climate targets a reality: the 70-percent objective, with which we are already more than halfway in line. From the observations made in the motion for a resolution, several proposals from a researcher on how best to address the challenge of people in the Third World being driven on the run because of extreme climate change are presented. He speaks among other things. The countries of the world should first of all consider how they can reduce climate change and mitigate the effects of climate change. ▪ We agree with the researcher and therefore the Social Democrats want to continue to set ambitious targets for the climate as inspiration for the rest of the world's countries and for the benefit of people who are being driven from their homes as a consequence of climate change. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144359	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144402	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was fast, so it was a little tricky to keep up. However, following on from the Minister's statement that we are spending half of our resources on receiving refugees who do not actually receive asylum, I would like to hear: how can we avoid spending money on those who do not then receive asylum but instead use it for the benefit of their home territory?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144427	We must strengthen border controls around Europe, and we must ensure that it becomes more difficult to get to Europe if we do not have an asylum base, otherwise we will spend too much resources on people who do not have an asylum base. It is clear that we must respect the conventions, but the conventions do not say anything about climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144446	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144447	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that there are people, families who are really suffering from climate change with floods, droughts and whatever that may be. It is people who need help and who do not get it in the vicinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144506	Yes, and that is why I also believe that it is a rather irresponsible proposal that is being put forward here, where you only think it is about 500 people who need help, while the millions of people who are suffering distress and that is a number that will be increasing in the years to come can sail their own lake, because there has been a good feeling in the belly of helping 500 people. That is why, of course, I think that this proposal proposes as a tailor somewhere outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144532	It was a good thing you didn't finish that sentence because it wouldn't have been allowed. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Anne Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144542	In the Left, we take the climate challenges very seriously. However, we do not believe that the world's climate challenges can be solved by receiving 500 climate migrants a year. On the other hand, we believe that it is crucial that integration and the foreigners already in Denmark are under control before we begin to open up to new refugees, and that is far from it today. As it looks today, there are big holes in the Danmark map. There are areas where the majority of foreigners live separately from the rest of us; there are parallel societies, social control and a lack of links with the labour market. These are just some of the problems that hinder integration. Right now there is war in Europe and there are Ukrainians who have to flee their homes, their country. Many have already found their way to Denmark, and up to 100,000 are expected. It is a huge task which will draw a great deal on the resources of Danish society, because it is not free to accept refugees, far from it. Looking at the state of affairs as it is today, it is deeply irresponsible to imagine at all that one should start opening up to provide humanitarian accommodation for climate migrants. In the Left, we know that global challenges require global solutions, and that is why we are very open to international green agreements that, in the long term, will enable the less developed countries to cope with climate change and their consequences. But Denmark is a small country and it is important for cohesion that we do not receive more refugees than we can integrate. With these words, I can say that the Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144731	There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144734	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is quite right that this is a huge problem and that we cannot help everyone. But does the rapporteur not recognise that it would mean a great deal to the 500 lives that we could help to get out of need?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144751	I recognise that there are plenty of people who are in need, persecuted, starved and poor. However, when we cannot help everyone, this is a matter of priority, and in the Left we want to reduce the number of spontaneous asylum seekers so that we can accept quota refugees instead. And that's a priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144818	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, as I see it. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. Now it's sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331144828	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Free Greens for putting forward this proposal which highlights one of the most important modern challenges in the asylum system, namely climate refugees. By 2020 alone, we witnessed 30 million people leaving their homes as a result of the consequences of climate change, and a large proportion of them end up as internally or externally displaced persons. They may be the world's best example of climate change being here and having real consequences for real people every day. This is a problem to which the world needs to find a solution. However, the proposal put forward here by the Greens is not the solution to that problem. In fact, in spite of all the good intentions in it, which I fully share, the proposal is a misunderstanding of our entire asylum system, either a misunderstanding or a priority, which I must admit I cannot understand at all. In the asylum system there are roughly two ways of being a refugee. One can either be a spontaneous refugee, which means that one flees from one's home to another country and gets asylum in that way, or one can be a quota refugee, and that means that the United Nations quota refugee scheme is designated for resettlement in another country. It is no secret that in the SF we are very strong supporters of the quota refugee scheme because that system can help the most vulnerable refugees, those most in need of help. And this is where I do not understand the proposal of the Free Greens. Because there will soon be 100 million people fleeing the world. If we take more quota refugees, we can give priority to those whom the UN humanitarian missions believe need most because they are weak, sick or do not have access to other aid. But if we adopted this proposal, we would say that we do not really trust the quota refugee system. No, we would rather make a special law for a particular group, which ensures that climate refugees are given priority over other refugees, not because of how vulnerable they are, but because of what they have fled from. So here must Free Greens and Mrs Susanne Zimmer or Mr. Sikandar Siddique help me a little on the way. Well, what's the logic here? What is it about the United Nations quota refugee system that people do not like? In my head, the United Nations quota refugee system is already in danger of being undermined by the growing scepticism on the right. Should we now on the left also undermine that system by creating new parallel systems? Frankly, I think that's gonna be shooting yourself in the foot. If the Free Greens want to work with the Socialist People's Party to find better ways to help climate refugees, then we are ready! There is no doubt about that. There are major problems with the fact that it is not clearly defined what a climate refugee is. And both the SF and the Green Group in the European Parliament, of which we are a part, are working actively to ensure that there is a clear definition of it so that climate refugees are not forgotten in the system. We really do not have a clear definition today. But the solution is not to undermine the most important refugee system in Europe, namely the quota system. Therefore, as a starting point, I am rather sceptical about the proposal here, and I really believe that most people who work seriously in this area will also be, regardless of their opinions. However, I am ready for an open and, hopefully, good discussion of this, because there is no doubt that with this proposal, the Free Greens are focusing on an extremely important area, climate refugees. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145231	There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no doubt that we agree that we must help climate refugees. Of course, we very much appreciate this in the Free Greens. However, it is in fact the case that, within the meaning of Paragraph 9 of the Aliens Act. 1, we have the opportunity to receive climate refugees. So what does the rapporteur mean by this being a new law we are talking about? Because that's not the intention here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145259	It is, of course, the intention to set up a new parallel system in relation to the quota refugee scheme, which specifically welcomes people on the basis of what they are fleeing from, namely the climate. We will argue that refugees should be welcomed on the basis of how much they need resettlement, which is why climate refugees should also be part of the general quota system. There must be a clear definition of what a climate refugee is. I'm sure that's what's missing. We must work for this internationally. However, I do not think that we should create new parallel systems whereby climate refugees are given priority over all sorts of other groups. In fact, I find it a little interesting that the Free Greens are standing here proposing a special law for climate refugees at a time when the Free Greens spend a lot of time telling how much one is against special laws. I very much agree with the intentions. I think it is important for us to welcome climate refugees, but I think that the professional content here and the solution are quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145357	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145358	Thank you. After all, it is not because we want to minimise the number of refugees; on the contrary. We will commit ourselves to receiving at least 500 climate refugees a year. And how you do it, you might say maybe it's less important. I would like to hear from the rapporteur how many climate refugees the rapporteur will then put into quota refugees. And, of course, I also fully agree that it is important to define what we understand by a climate refugee. So that's where we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145426	I cannot answer how many climate refugees we will receive, but I can say something about the fact that we would like to receive more refugees. As a starting point, how many of those fleeing from climate change do not matter. I would like to welcome those who have the greatest need of protection and who need resettlement. That is why it is quite clear. If you were to accept 500 extra quota refugees, we would be fine with that. However, we find it strange to create a new parallel system, which is being proposed by the Free Greens. Let's run it in the systems that already work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we can move on to the next rapporteur that I see, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145507	Thank you. As I read this proposal from the Free Greens, it is a question of extending access for people on the run to seek protection in Denmark. We in the Enhedslist sort of agree that this is a good idea. We have seen in particular over the last few years how the very, very strict rules of Danish refugee policy have made it impossible for people with a real need for protection to be protected in Denmark. It is not because we do not have the resources or the means to protect them, but because a large majority inside this Chamber does not want it. The vast majority want a policy in which we discourage people from even seeking asylum in Denmark, and if they do, they have to go out very soon after it has happened at all, and in fact we even give them money to go back. We have seen how it is possible to act sensibly in the context of major refugee crises in the context of the current war in Ukraine, where it could easily be possible to gather a large majority in order to actually help people flee, but that is certainly an exception. I think it is absurd to see how Denmark opens the door to Ukrainian refugees, while refugees from Syria, Iran, Afghanistan are being expelled to the same dictators from whom they fled. The fact that Denmark cannot receive all refugees in the world is, of course, quite clear, but as it is today, Denmark is in fact one of the countries in Europe that receives the most frequent refugees. In relative terms, we receive six times fewer than Sweden, Germany and France, and the figure looks even worse if we look at Spain and Greece. Since the entry into force of this government, every year, as everyone knows, funds have been allocated to take 500 quota refugees, but those funds have not been used and we have not actually received that number at all. At the same time as Denmark hardly receives any refugees, reference continues to be made to the so-called "neighbourhood areas' which need to help more, but if, for example, we are going to have to do more. Looking at Lebanon, which is a country the size of Denmark, they have 1.5 million Syrian refugees living there. Jordan has 2 million Palestinians and 600.000 Syrians, so we are far from lifting the burden that the surrounding areas are already lifting, so we cannot continue to say that it must be dealt with by the neighbourhoods, because that makes absolutely no sense. In general, therefore, the problem is that Denmark takes far too few refugees and does not lift our share of global responsibility. I would also like to say, on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Green Group in the European Parliament, that we in the Enhedslist are very sceptical about parallel systems and special laws in the Danish law on foreigners, and I have to say that with the way in which the last month has passed, I am a little surprised that the Free Greens are proposing a special law, because otherwise I have understood that the Free Greens are opposed to special laws and always vote against special laws, even if it helps people to escape. I would rather that we did so, that we extended the current quota refugee scheme, that we took 2 000 quota refugees and that we added the 500 quota refugees proposed by the Free Greens here. It should not be the model that divides us in the Free Greens and the Enhedslist when the intention is the same, and I would therefore like to say that we cannot vote yes or no to this proposal, but that we would very much like to be involved in making a report in the committee on how we can take more refugees, how we can protect people who are fleeing precisely climate disasters, and furthermore, I fully agree that we lack a proper legal definition of what a climate refugee is. We need this not only in Denmark, but also at European level, and I know that, like Mr Tugendhat. Carl Valentin, that there are good left-wing forces in the European Union who are working for this. So we are 100% in agreement with the Free Greens in the intention, but we think the model is a little strange, because if you can avoid making a special law, we think you should avoid it. So let's meet in committee. I also think it sounds as if Mr. Carl Valentin is open to it. Unfortunately, the Radical Left is not here today, so I shall not be able to say what they think, but if I know them correctly, they are at least in agreement with the intentions of the proposal from the Free Greens. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145938	There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331145941	Thank you to the rapporteur for agreeing with the intentions, because there is really a great need for help here. I would just like to point out that we are not talking about a special law, but about Paragraph 9 of the Aliens Act. 1, which provides for the possibility of welcoming climate refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150004	I have read the comments on the motion for a resolution, but we are talking here about creating a parallel system for the system we already have, although it contains Article 9 of the Aliens Act. At the same time, we are also in a situation where it is not clearly defined what a climate refugee is. Therefore, it is also exciting to see what Free Greens think falls under this paragraph. But I must also say that, as I read the remarks, it is very, very unclear and when both Mr. Carl Valentin and I see it as being very peculiar, there might well be more people who see it this way when they read the remarks. But Mrs Susanne Zimmer can, of course, clarify this in her rapporteur's speech, and I think it has already been a little clarified in the debate we have had so far in the Chamber. But I have to say that, as the proposal says, it certainly looks like a special law for climate refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150056	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150056-2	We could then meet there that you can read it differently, but it is not the idea that it should be a special law. The idea is that we should help some refugees and get them into foreign policy. I fully agree that there is a need to define what we mean by a climate refugee. For it is large and includes many people who are being hit hard. That is why it is also important that we know what we are talking about. That was more of a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150123	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150126	I think it's nice that we've come this far. I also think it would be nice if we could have a process in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, so that at least here in Christiansborg we agree on what we consider to be a climate refugee, because it is not, in fact, prohibited to be one step ahead of the European Union. In fact, I think that would dress us for a rare time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150143	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150153	Thank you for that, President. I have been allowed to speak in favour of this proposal because our rapporteur could not be here today. Free Greens put forward a proposal that Denmark should receive a minimum of 500 people annually who have fled due to extreme climate and environmental changes and give them a humanitarian stay. In Denmark we have an important and crucial principle that you can only be in Denmark as a refugee if you have a need for protection. When that is no longer the case, we must, of course, return to our country of origin. A little simplified, it is the case that the need for protection is defined on the basis of whether a person is justified in risking persecution. There is also provision that refugees should not be repatriated if, for example, there is a risk of torture on return to their country of origin. So there is nothing about climate challenges. It is also well known that we in Denmark have major integration problems and massive challenges with rejected asylum seekers. We have to stand by that and we must never close our eyes to it. That is why we do not believe that Denmark can accept climate quota refugees either. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal. And then I should say hello from New Citizens and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150311	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we can move on to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150324	In fact, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is a far-reaching proposal which, of course, creates such a completely new legal basis for obtaining a residence permit in Denmark as a refugee. The number of climate refugees is not being made independent. In 2017, the Swiss Monitoring Centre IDMC estimated that 17 million people had been displaced from their homes as a result of extreme climate events. The proposal mentions 20 million. I haven't been able to find a source, but that's not what's important either. No other country has granted a residence permit to refugees based on climate change, nor does the UN Convention on Refugees provide such a right. And as others have said, I find it difficult to separate. Furthermore, how do we distinguish climate events resulting from global warming from climate events that have always been? There have always been hurricanes and floods, and how do they really differ from other natural disasters such as earthquakes? earthquakes that can also be devastating? In any case, it is a question of rebuilding the areas after a disaster and not of moving people permanently thousands of kilometres away from disaster areas. It is not appropriate for Denmark, in a situation where we already have major integration challenges, to open up immigration from third countries with reference to weather conditions in the countries concerned. It will be an additional economic, social and cultural burden for Denmark. The Danish People's Party says no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150500	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150522	Thank you for the floor. What do you want me to say? In other words, there is support from some parties, and it is gratifying, and there are also several parties that recognise that we have a problem and there are many who recognise that we should do something in those areas where the problems are. But that's not what's helping the people who are in need right now. In 1990 the IPCC described how climate change and their derived effects would force people away from their original home. The 1990 prophecy has long since come true. Geologists have declared that human activities really mean that as the world we have entered a whole new era, which means that man has simply become a force of nature. We are in the process of changing the world as we know it. Climate change and climate degradation are changing our world. Heat records, hurricane records, refugee records and many other records have become everyday, unfortunately. What used to be extreme has suddenly become the new normal. This particularly affects the world's poorest and most vulnerable people, who are undoubtedly the ones who pay the highest price for the climate crisis. The world community is losing the climate struggle; we are busy. The latest UN reports clearly show this. In Denmark too, things are not fast enough, far from it. Unfortunately, the Climate Council's many reports show this only too well. Every day that passes, climate change and climate degradation have more and more widespread consequences. That means, among other things, that... an increasing number of people who will have to flee their homes from floods, storms, droughts or hunger. Therefore, Denmark must take exceptional responsibility and help the world's new climate refugees while respecting all international agreements, for example. The Paris Agreement. By 2020, 30 million people were displaced by climate change and extreme weather, and the figure is steadily increasing. Almost 90%. of the world's refugees come from climate-vulnerable low-income countries. In the World Bank's calculations, seawater increases, crop yield declines and a lack of fresh water can mean that 216 million people are driven from their own homeland by 2050. So we have to prepare for it to get worse. That is why it is important that we are now ready to deal with what awaits us. We need to strengthen the protection of climate refugees and their right to live good, meaningful lives. We in the Free Greens believe that we in Denmark have an obligation to do our part. We therefore believe that we must grant humanitarian residence permits to the most affected climate refugees and contribute to more reconstruction and resettlement locally. We therefore want Denmark to take the lead in helping people flee from extreme climate and environmental changes. And today it is already possible to provide humanitarian accommodation to people fleeing from climate and environmental disasters, according to section 9 of the Aliens Act. 1. We now have to seize that opportunity and turn it into action, as the climate crisis only requires more victims for every day that passes. The law already exists, and we just have to use it. We therefore propose that in future, Denmark will receive and grant a residence permit to at least 500 people who have fled due to climate and environmental changes. Let us now help some of those who most need it. It will suit Denmark to take responsibility for the people who are fleeing from the climate destruction that we have created. Thank you for the floor. I would also like to refer to the comments which accompany the proposal and recommend it to the goodwill of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150920	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331150924	First of all, I would like to thank the Free Greens for focusing on climate refugees, which are a very topical and major problem, as I said in my speech before. We are now in a situation where, if this is put to the vote, we will probably vote against it. I've explained why, and that's because we kind of think it's a piece of shit. This has nothing to do with the fact that we do not want to help climate refugees. And I also heard some of the same things from the Enhedslisten. That is why I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether we can count on there not to be a process now when the Free Greens have thought of various social media hanging out the support parties in order not to want to do anything for climate refugees. Because I think I sometimes experience it here: then we vote against something that the Free Greens have proposed, because we do not think it holds up properly, but then we are hanged out in order not to help climate refugees, for example. Can the rapporteur guarantee that major campaigns on social media against the support parties will not be carried out when we have explained very well why we think this piece of legislation is not so sensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151030	Now it is the case that we have free access to social media, no matter what party we are in. So we're going out with the opinions we have. And we can of course go out and say that at this stage there is no support for this proposal, just as the SF can also go out and explain why there is no support. So I'm thinking we have our freedom for each of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151051	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151055	You certainly have freedom, but there is also a good idea not to hang people for opinions they do not have. And I can see this for myself! I can just see how Free Greens are going to tour about social media: See stupid SF and Enhedslisten, they won't help the climate refugees even though we've been standing up there saying that we want to, but this concrete piece of legislation seems to us to be a piece of crap. I am simply asking the Greens to take these considerations into account when they have the public debate, because I sometimes think that it is a little unmanageable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151126	Well, we would like to take these considerations into account, but of course we will also go out with the positions we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The next thing we need is a request. This means that we need to make some technical changes, as the rapporteurs need to get up and sit in the front row there too, so there will be a break in a few minutes. Then I think we got the technology in place so that we can get to work on the last item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151434	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 5 April 2022. We start by getting a justification. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151444	Thank you for that, President. It is true that this question was originally put at the end of last year, precisely in the context of the corona epidemic and the major capacity challenges that were in the health care system, but it was then postponed because we actually had a partial solution made through the winter package that was adopted, which helped to resolve some of the challenges that there were temporarily. However, it has to be said that the problem has not diminished in the meantime, perhaps quite the contrary. After all, we have seen here that there have been proposals for health reform both from the government and from the Left, but what is, as it were, characteristic is that none of the proposals address what is the very big issue, namely how we recruit and maintain staff, how we ensure that we get staff to solve the absolutely necessary and invaluable work in health care. There you can do all the structural reforms you want, you can build all the healthhouses you want, you can do all the new near hospitals you want: if there are no staff to do the job, it's like nothing. That's why this question is still gone, unfortunately, because we're facing an urgent challenge. It has been a little bit that when we have asked the Minister for Health what role the nurses' strike and the intervention there was, the calls by the various professional groups for a lack of pay and the value of care work play, the Minister for Health refers to the Minister for Employment and the Labour Structure Committee. When we then ask the Minister for Employment, the Minister for Employment says: that is something we will solve in the context of the health reform. That is why we think it is quite relevant and interesting to have the question here today, when both ministers, both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Employment, are present, so that we can hear what the government is actually asking us to do about this challenge. How do we ensure that in future there will also be staff for the absolutely invaluable tasks to be solved, and how do we ensure that the staff who are there also have the perspective that these are some pay and working conditions that we will be able to be under not only six months from now, but also in one year's time and in three years' time and in five years' time, and how do we ensure that we can maintain recruitment for this area? So I look forward to hearing the replies of the ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151720	That was the reason. Let us now turn to the answer. I can see that it is the Minister for Employment who wants to speak first. Here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331151730	Thank you very much for the floor, President, and thank you to Enhedslisten for calling this inquiry debate on capacity challenges, the working environment and patient safety in health care. As Minister for Employment, I will deal with the part which deals with health and safety at work. First of all, I would like to emphasise that I have enormous respect for the employees of our health services. The health workers have helped to ensure that we in Denmark have come through the pandemic with the skin on our noses. You have done an extraordinary job, and we owe them very much our thanks for that. Unfortunately, it is no secret that health care is under pressure. That is why I welcome this opportunity to discuss health and safety at work. The large and unforeseen tasks associated with the covid-19 and, as a result, the many delayed operations have also not made the challenges easier to deal with. However, I would like to make it clear that everyone has the right to a healthy and safe working environment. The regions must ensure a good working environment for employees. As employers, it is their responsibility to ensure that health and safety rules are observed so that no one becomes ill or gets injured as a result of work. However, as a government and as a Parliament, we have a responsibility to support that the regions have the framework to create a healthy and safe healthcare for everyone, both patients and employees. In this context, I would like to highlight some concrete initiatives which we, the Government and the Danish Parliament, have set in motion to strengthen the working environment and working conditions, in general and in health care. Firstly, I would like to mention that in 2019 a broad majority of Parliament's parties reached an agreement on a new and improved work environment. As a result of the Working Conditions Agreement, a tripartite agreement has been reached on priority national targets for health and safety at work. The ambition of the tripartite agreement is to set a clear direction for cooperation on the working environment in Danish workplaces. In this context, the social partners in the sector have hospitals, among other things. established a target figure for fewer people to be exposed to significant mental stress. Targets have been set to ensure that fewer people experience an imbalance between high demands in work and low influence and that fewer people are exposed to insulting actions. This means that among other things: The Factory Inspectorate and the social partners have a common focus on supporting the prevention of occupational health and safety problems at the workplace. In this way, we hope to achieve the desired reduction in mental stress. The government, together with the senior pension board, has set aside 95 million. kr. in 2020 and 68 million; kr. additional in 2021 to the occupational health and safety communities, including: must go to support the work on national objectives. The funds can also be used this year and in 2023. The funds will be used by industry communities for work-related activities focusing on preventing accidents at work and wear and tear, both physically and psychologically, based on the needs of the workplace. Secondly, I would like to highlight the work of the Labour Inspectorate. The Factory Inspectorate has indicated to me that their overall knowledge and experience from the supervision of the industry indicates that there are challenges with the working environment in health care. This means that jobs in this industry are often taken for supervision. The Labour Inspectorate has informed me that in the period from 2019 to 3 March 2022 more than 1,000 hospital supervision has been carried out, of which nearly 400 have been carried out in 2021. During the same period, the Factory Inspectorate has given approx. 230 decisions and guidance on the mental health and safety at hospitals. The decisions and guidelines have mainly dealt with violence and traumatic events and high workload and time pressure. As part of the Working Conditions Agreement, the supervision of hospitals since 2020 has been carried out as an industry-oriented effort focusing on the psychological working environment. In the industry-oriented efforts there is a strengthened focus on dialogue with management and focus on helping self-help, i.e.: guidance on how to work on the prevention of occupational health and safety problems at work. However, the Working Conditions Agreement and the Labour Inspectorate's efforts are not the only tools we have in the toolbox to support a good working environment in health care. It is important that our efforts are holistic, as the working environment covers many issues. The agreement on a new early retirement pension provided for a total of EUR 30 million. kr. annual by 2022-2024 to prevent sickness absenteeism and early wear and tear in risk areas in the public sector. The pool will help to ensure that selected public jobs, based on the sickness absenteeism efforts they already have today, can apply for additional funds to work targeted and systematic with sickness absenteeism efforts. In addition, I would like to emphasise that agreement on early retirement rights also provides for 100 million. kr. in 2023 to improve the mental and physical working environment. It is money that has not yet been implemented. Another area of health care, which has been given a great deal of attention in recent years, is the issue of pay. Here it is the Government's ambition that, with the work of the Labour Structure Committee, we will have a solid basis for the social partners' discussions on the major and complex issues of wage structure and equal pay in the public sector. Indeed, it is essential that we have a common professional basis for the negotiations between the social partners on pay in the future. The remuneration structure committee shall complete its work before the end of 2022. So to sum up my answer to the question: A number of initiatives have been launched to support a healthy and safe working environment in all Danish workplaces, including in health care. We in the government have a constant focus on the need to launch further initiatives in the field of health and safety at work. That is why I also welcome the fact that the government is preparing the basis for a new working environment agreement. The tracks laid with the 2019 Working Conditions Agreement must be continued and further developed. Once the government has presented its financial bill to 2023 at the end of August, I will call for political negotiations on a new working environment agreement, so that we can also ensure a healthy and safe working environment in all Danish workplaces in the future. Those were the opening words from me. I give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152401	No, you don't. I'm trying to run this meeting. Now it is the case that there is a possibility of one brief remark from each of the general rapporteurs. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152417	Thank you. I think it makes sense that, as a representative of my own sex in this company today, I am also the one who raises questions in relation to the equal pay committee. Many years of experience in the work on equal pay in the typical women's professions, which are also welfare professions, show that this is a nut that has really been hard to crack. That is why I am very pleased that an equal pay committee has been set up. We all know, however, that the backlog, which is one of them. In this context, it should be pointed out that, in the light of the 1969 civil service reform, there is also a political will to provide the necessary means to compensate for the difference in pay in relation to typical women's occupations. So when is it that the government itself thinks it appropriate to send a signal to these subjects that they are prepared to solve this problem of equal pay, even politically, by providing the necessary funds and also as a prerequisite for us to start recruiting again for the professions, with which it is difficult at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152519	The government has the clear point of departure that we need an overview of what has actually formed the basis for the wage formation that has taken place in both the public and private sectors. A great deal has been discussed about the repercussions of the 1969 civil service reform. A report by the Institute for Human Rights in Denmark has pointed to one conclusion: that it has made lasting traces of wage formation. Other labour market researchers have said the opposite. Some also point out that it has something to do with the demands made over the years and what they have weighted. Has it been a basic salary? Has it been a supplement? What kind of negotiations have been made on the employees' side among the public employees, which have called for percentage increases rather than nominal amounts? After all, these are all the things we need to bring forward in the Wages Structure Committee, so that we can also see where it is that something different is needed, both among the negotiators, but for that matter also here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152617	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152622	Ah, come on, Minister for Employment! In other words, we are currently in a historical crisis in terms of being able to maintain and recruit staff, both in health care and also generally in the welfare professions, i.e. the female-dominated welfare professions. And I agree that there are some initiatives that have been taken, but this issue is about pay, and we have had an equal pay commission; now we have a pay structure committee. We now have a pretty good picture of what this is about. So there are two questions for the Minister for Employment. Is the government prepared to set aside the sufficient funds when the Committee on Wages' Structures makes recommendations, in other words the sufficient resources that the Committee on Wages' Structures is going to recommend? In addition, I would like to know whether the Minister can guarantee that the government will deliver in relation to the pay structure committee and not just awaiting the new Commission, that is, the Commission for the Sustainability of Health Care, I think it is called. Can we have a guarantee that we will not wait for the next Commission's recommendations, that is to say that we will wait for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152725	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152727	I want to make it as clear as I have said the other times when we have debated it here in the Parliament: the government has committed itself to follow up on the recommendations of the Labour Structure Committee. However, we need to know the recommendations and the analyses before we can conclude what it is that needs to be done. I believe that without knowing anything about the fact that the analyses and recommendations coming from the Labour Structure Committee will point in many different directions. Something will certainly, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund points out to Christiansborg, but I also believe that there will be a considerable part of what will point to the negotiating parties themselves in that they will have to do some things differently, that they will have to weigh their demands differently, that they will have to negotiate in a different way. After all, we are also concerned that we are being coordinated and dealt with. Basically, we have a very great interest in improving the working conditions of public employees in many different sectors. That is also one of the reasons why, in cooperation, we have stopped the harmful savings that have been made by the then bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152830	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152834	Thank you. And thank the Minister for coming and replying to what the government will do to resolve the obvious and acute capacity problems in health care. We know, of course, that there is a shortage of staff around, and that is what also helps to give the poor working environment, so simply that there is too little staff to do the job. Does the Minister not find it problematic that we can actually see that the largest group of those who have applied for the Arnepension that you have introduced are health workers, that is to say, that you are withdrawing healthy employees from the workforce and thus making the working environment worse for those who remain?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331152915	So, first of all, I have to correct and say that the largest group that has applied for the right to early retirement is not employees of health care, nor are they nurses; in fact, it is still a relatively small group among those who have applied. In addition, I would like to say that I do not think that there is anything wrong with it, if it is, you have been active in the labour market, that if you have worked as a nurse for up to 47 years, which is the case before you can retire early. So I actually think it's fair that you have an opportunity to retire while it's, you still have a chance to enjoy just a tiny bit of your good health in the otium you have. In fact, I think it's a bigger problem that Mr. Per Larsen's own party, the Conservatives, intends to save on the public sector and does not want to keep the money going with demographic developments. Because this will mean that, year by year, we will see further savings in our hospitals, which will further reduce the working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153019	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153025	Thank you. The Minister says in his reply that the Labour Inspectorate has made a great effort and has been out on 1,000 visits, I think it was, and in 230 cases had provided instructions and guidance that related to an excessive amount of work and psychological pressure. The Minister also says that there is a target figure for fewer people to experience it in the future. But I did not hear the Minister say anything about what would justify having faith in the fact that those targets could actually be achieved. What's made of bets for that? The Labour Inspectorate can point to the problems, but they do not do anything about it. So what is the reason why we have to believe that there is less work to be done in this sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153104	The truth is, of course, and we can all see that many, many years of savings in health care combined with the corona crisis have, of course, put pressure on the working environment, among others. The hospitals. There's one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Fortunately, we have stopped this now and have turned the tide, but we are also very aware that it does not improve the working environment overnight, unfortunately. We're focused on getting better. We're investing in health care. We have set aside money to recruit 1,000 more nurses, which they are also hiring out there. But then we also have a long-term need, as other rapporteurs have also pointed out, namely the recruitment of new nurses both for education and into the profession. This is a challenge that we must take very seriously together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153202	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153210	I did not really intend to ask the Minister for Employment anything because of my lack of a vote, but now the Minister for Employment said that there had been many, many years of savings in the Danish health service. However, it is clear from memory that since 2000 the public sector has had the highest growth rate in terms of public investment. So I should just like to hear from the Minister for Employment whether he is not able to explain to the House and to those who may keep up with what the Minister is talking about in terms of massive savings in health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153240	I hope that Mr. Martin Geertsen is aware of the fact that under the then bourgeois government, at least, there was a re-priority contribution which pulled money out of the health care system, and at the same time money was not kept up when there were more both elderly and treatment-intensive patients and so on. This has been one of the things that at least many employees have said has meant that they have had to run stronger and stronger in, among other things. health care. That is also one of the reasons why, in this government, although we have strict economic conditions, we insist on keeping investments in welfare in line with demographic developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153316	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Employment. And then we can let the Minister of Health speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331153333	Thank you. And thank you to Enhedslisten for calling this query debate. The Danish health service is one of the best in the world. We have a skilled healthcare professional, we have highly specialized super hospitals, we have strong patient rights. We must also say that the situation over the last few years, the pandemic, has highlighted the challenges facing health care. And there we know the forecasts for the coming years too... they've known changing governments for a long time. The composition of the population is changing, and this means that more people need treatment, more people need care. Our task is therefore to look both at solutions that can help in terms of the current and future capacity challenges, in the coming months, in this year, but also to look at solutions in the longer term. Let me start by saying what it is that we stand on, what it is that has been done in recent times to equip our health services, and then focus on here and now and then in the longer term as the last. First of all, since we entered the government, we have been working to ensure that the money comes when more children arrive and when more older people arrive. And if you do the math, you can see that over the last three years we have raised the economy of the regions and municipalities precisely because of this change in demography with a total of 8.6 billion. kr. On top of that comes the money that we, together with the parties to the agreement, have set aside with the Finance Act. There we have prioritised funds to hire more nurses, strengthen psychiatry. We gave the health service the absolutely necessary boost in this winter... this one billion dollars, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund mentioned in his explanatory statement to support the activity, maintain the staff and get the hospital service well and safely through an extraordinarily difficult winter season. It was exactly the right decision we made there with the parties to the agreement. In addition, with the Finance Act, we have set aside 475 million. kr. to create better conditions for pregnant and giving birth to women, so that all children are guaranteed a good start to life in the family. And we are in the process of translating those funds together with the parties to the agreement in order to secure sufficient staff on our birthplaces. So that's some of what we're standing on. And now I want to focus on what we are doing in the months to come, because there is because we know that these few years of epidemic management and also months of collective conflict have left their mark. Inventory shows that there are patients who have now waited long and are still waiting for surgery. These are not acute operations, because we have had them all the way through, as well as cancer and heart patients having of course been through our health care system. However, in relation to knee and hip surgery and such a thing, which is also important for the individual patient, there are some of the patients who have waited a long time. And that is why the government has concluded an agreement with Danske Regions that waiting times in health care should be reduced to normal levels. This is a huge effort, and the ambition of the agreement is that the deficit should be settled in 2022, in other words this year. And it's not free for the individual, because there are some who have to take some extra guards. It is not free for society either, because it costs money, of course, when some take extra shifts it is logical. That is why we in the government have stressed that we want to secure the necessary resources for this to happen. And there are different health economists who are out to say something about it, but their estimates are therefore with a broad margin. So we cannot say that exactly yet, but we have said that it is a bill that the state has to pay, so that we have this robustness in our health care restored. It is also important that other health care activities continue to be dealt with, which is why we are following closely. In an agreement with Danske Regioner we have created a task force between the Ministry of Health, the Danish Regions, the Ministry of Finance and the Danish Health Authority, which is following this area very, very closely. I would also like to emphasise in relation to these capacity challenges, where the call for a question has briefly mentioned that they must not go beyond patient safety, that I am pleased that this issue has been mentioned, and that is why I should like to say a few words about it here. In other words, we have our regions, which ensure that conditions in hospitals are in order, that patients receive the right treatment and that staff have the right skills, and we have the Board for Patient Safety. There is independent supervision of it. The supervision is carried out both with treatment sites but also with individual healthcare professionals. And the aim is, of course, to prevent conditions that may endanger patient safety, but equally to prevent mistakes from happening. It is also crucial that the health services and our employees pick up and learn from those mistakes, because of course mistakes are made, but you have to learn from them so that they do not happen over and over again and so that they do not become system failures. That is why it is a learning work that is very, very important, and you can leave it not only to the individual employee there we have to have a great deal of focus on it both from the employers in the regions, but also from the Board for Patient Safety. So to the slightly longer-term perspective. There are no snapshot solutions, that is, where it is just easy, to solve the basic problem we have in our society with that we have smaller vintages, more tasks, more patients, so how do we solve that problem? We cannot solve it just by doing more of the same; we also need to think new. And that is one of the reasons why, in our proposal for a health reform, we have measures to ensure that we have a better framework for our employees to carry out their tasks in a more flexible way, also so that their skills and professionalism are used best. And that is of course for their own benefit, but of course also for the patients they go to work to help. Among other things: We will allow nurses to carry out certain tasks independently, which are currently reserved for doctors, and we will also increase the scope of the tasks that midwives can perform independently, and create new career paths for social and health assistants. So these are some of the concrete elements. Then we also need to look at how to ensure more staff, how to make better use of staff in the future, and how to use the technology to solve the tasks smarter. And all of this requires rethinking solutions if we are to do something structurally different. That is what is needed, because when we look at the demographic change in our society and what it means for our health care, we see that the number of patients with one or more chronic diseases, elderly medical patients, is increasing we know that it is increasing. So, as I said, we can't just keep doing more of the same thing. That is why we also need key partners across the health system to think with here and lift something here. And that is why we have a proposal for a Commission for Sturdyness to make recommendations for solutions that can be felt by patients and employees. It's not gonna be an easy job. I'm not gonna say that at all, but we have to start this job. The initiatives in the reform initiative, together with this Commission, must provide the framework for health professionals to have time for the individual patient, even when there are more patients, so that we can solve the capacity challenges in this way. And I mean it when I say that I really look forward to further work on health reform in the negotiations. And we are already well at work; we have held several meetings, and we meet again tomorrow, I think it is actually that we have the next meeting. So I look forward to it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154201	Thank you. There are brief comments. First it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154205	Thank you. Something does to me when we talk about that robustness, because I think that despite huge workload over the last two years in particular, health professionals are still able to create security around the individual patient, so patients are sure that they will return home healthy. Well, if it's not ruggedness, I don't know what robustness is. I simply cannot think of other professional groups that are so robust in terms of being able to measure up to pressure that no one ultimately has. I am actually a little more concerned with what the Minister himself thinks than with the structural aspects. I think, for example. even that recruitment and retention are things that are important in relation to the future health reform, and I think it is a paradox that you have better conditions as an unknown substitute, better pay conditions, better working conditions and more influence on your working time and your free time than you do if you are a well-known and experienced employee. What does the Minister think about working conditions in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154312	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154315	Yeah, but that's right. In other words, I have just been to Brussels, where I spoke to health ministers from all over Europe, and everyone is reporting on the same thing: a exposed health service, where some have been even more exposed than our health services. At least they're really hard hit. It must also be reported from Denmark, that is to say that our health workers have really taken a huge turn with very, very big upheavals in a very short time, and we have been through several different waves. And this winter was so long and with patient pressure, that we saw that all five regions postponed their planned operations and tried to make the best possible arrangements. So it's been a rough winter, and it's a tough time. With regard to what is then asked, that is to say, permanent employees in relation to temporary workers, it is a question of ensuring as much flexibility as possible for those who are permanent employees. I think that is very central.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154421	Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154428	Thank you. After a lot of consultation, Article 20 questions and questions down here, I know that this is a well-known issue for the Minister for Health and that the Minister for Health has also expressed his concern in the past about how we should solve this challenge, because it is a huge challenge for the health service, that is to say the question of how we ensure that there are staff and precisely how we ensure that they get pay and working conditions that enable us to attract and maintain staff. That is why I was also looking forward to the government's health issue coming, because I thought that now we can see the solution to what the government wants to do with this. And there I have to say that there was my disappointment at that when I could see that the answer that was immediately on this challenge was a Commission for Healthcare Sustainability, which, preserved, points to some excellent solutions, but does not address the fundamental issue. Given that the Minister for Health is aware of the huge challenge we are facing, I would just like to know what part of the problem the Minister thinks can be solved with a Commission for Sturdyness in Health Care?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154530	I do not think this is an entirely reasonable characterization of our health issue, but I know that the debate and the jargon in the Parliamentary Chamber are such. One of the key issues that is also involved is that we propose to continue to follow the demographics. When there are more chronic patients, more older medical patients, when the healthcare system gets more tasks, more patients, the money must also keep up, and this is a break, compared to what several previous governments have had of economic policy, and that is what we are proposing it is one of the cornerstones of our health initiative. Now it is the health rapporteurs and the employment rapporteurs and the Minister for Employment who are gathered here, but otherwise nobody believes that we can just take a whole year and say that they all have to become nurses and doctors and work in the health service, because we cannot, of course, because they have to be used everywhere else too. So we also have to work smarter, work better. That is why we believe that a Commission is part of the solution that helps to think new things out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154628	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154637	I just need to understand one thing. Does this Commission, when there is a political agreement on health, stand in the way of putting some of these things into practice immediately? I cannot understand why, in waiting to expand the area of the nurses' business, we have to wait for a commission. I do not understand why pharmacists and pharmacists cannot come in and do medicine management anything better and more than today, because we have to sit and wait for a commission, or that social and health workers cannot carry out more tasks and relieve nurses more than they do today. Why do we really have to wait for that commission to get started? It's simple, it's low-hanging fruit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154718	I love it when parties start to sign up with concrete proposals, because the plan is to make an agreement with the parties. It may be that there is something professional that means that there is something we cannot make an agreement on. Some of the things that were said by Mr. Martin Geertsen's side, I fully agree, while I can see that there may be some challenges in some of the other, but let's try to dive into it. Let us start what we can agree on as soon as possible, after we hope we have reached a broad political agreement on health reform. But we must also be honest in saying that all the wise and right things that can be done must be done in full, but we cannot just do it with a snap, and then this is solved, because there is also something where we need to get the parties in a slightly more binding way, and we also need a commission to be involved in this. As far as I'm concerned, there's at least three tempos in it. The first is a health agreement, because the sooner and better we can make a health reform, the better. Then there is a commission to report and implement on a regular basis, something of which may be in other areas, education and other areas. The last thing is that there will of course also be a political follow-up to that Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154821	Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154824	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. The money comes with it, the minister says over and over again. But now it is actually the staff who are largely lacking, so it is not always enough that there is just money that goes with it. We then have staff groups that we can actually get enough of, such as doctors, because there are plenty of young people who want to study medicine. We know that there is one thing we can do. see in the health issue that the government has put forward a large belt that is colored red, where there are 600,000 Danes living in medically protected areas, by the fact that there are plenty of Danes who do not have a doctor who they know. In all modesty, I have once or twice tabled a motion for a resolution to ensure that we train more general practitioners so that the chronic shortage of practitioners that we actually have and that we have had in all the time that the regions have existed can be resolved over time. There the government has repeatedly voted against it, so that we get to that level, so that we go from the 3,300 practitioners we have now to the future needs of the PLO, namely 5,000. Why don't you back it up so we can solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154932	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331154935	When I repeatedly point out that the money comes with it, it is because they did not do so under the last government. During the last government there were years of that. One year it was one region that had to lay off many, over 100 nurses, because there was not enough money. Then it was another region that had to lay off health workers, because there was not enough money. There were those layoffs. It was our regions that carried them out, but it was because there was an economy that did not follow. While there were more patients, layoffs were made. There we are somewhere else here. Then to the answer about what is missing in relation to doctors. In fact, since the elections, we have also put in more doctors and opened up more education in general medicine, which is the specific training that is being asked about here than the previous government. Unfortunately, I know that it will take many, many years for people to complete their training here, so that is why it is in the longer term and not something that can solve the problem here and now. But we have put in more educational positions than the previous government had.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155031	Then it is Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155036	It is good to set up commissions and to set some people up to work to find good solutions in the long term, but it is also good to take up the opportunities that could now lie ahead. There's the doctors, there's the nurses, and we need some more. What is the bottlenecks there are internships. That is the implementation of it. Last summer, in the context of the major agreement on the relocation of education, a partnership was established with the government and the regions and municipalities, in relation to how these internships could be provided. I know nothing's happened to me yet. It was a road you could have walked. I know that there is a falling search, but there are still more people who would like to be a nurse than there are seats for. So how come the government hasn't moved on with that part of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155119	It is true that, unfortunately, we are currently seeing it with nurses. We must be careful that we do not talk this into a black hole, because it is still one of the most sought-after and most popular educations at all. We really need to safeguard that, because we need everyone who comes in. But it is true that we are seeing something that may be worrying, namely that there are beginning to be some worrying figures for those who are applying. But let us now wait until we have the total figure for this year before we can draw that conclusion. But in addition, we must do everything we can to ensure that there are internships relevant places in Denmark where you also need employees later on. Because it is precisely during the years of education that you then choose to settle and start a family. And if you've done it somewhere where there's a job, we've got them where we need them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155205	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are embarking on the rapporteur's round. First of all, Mr President, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155228	Having listened to the reply given by the ministers here, I therefore believe that I have to say with concern that I do not think you are fully aware of the depth of this problem. I do not think that you are aware of the scale of this problem when we look at the current state of health care. Now the Minister of Health spoke here most recently about admission to nursing education. The latest figures I have seen are that there is actually going to be a fall this year. We do not know specifically yet why or how much it will be. It is possible that it cannot be completely rejected that the action taken in the nurse's conflict, by a large majority here in the Danish Parliament, has had an effect. However, this is an enormous issue that we are dealing with in the health service. In fact, it is not just in health care; it is in fact everywhere in the female-dominated welfare professions, but today's debate is primarily in relation to health care. It's a well-known issue. Now I was just pulling the numbers again: 43 per cent. the recruitment of nurses, according to the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment, during the period from March to August 2021, could not be fulfilled. That's 4,500 recruitments where you couldn't get personnel. If we look at the number of midwives in the Capital Region by the latest, the number of annual work for midwives in February 2021 peaked at 576. It had fallen to 485.2 in January 2022, a fall of 15.7%, and it corresponds quite precisely to one in seven midwives in the Capital Region. And if you were just to compare it, it would be like those who were working on Monday a year ago suddenly weren't there any more; then there were no midwives on Monday. This is an enormous issue, and if we do not intervene now, it will grow and for every day, every week, every month we wait, the problem will grow and the solution that needs to be even more ambitious. That is why I simply cannot understand the approach of the government, because this is a well-known issue. We've seen under the corona how the capacity has been pressed. We've seen it with the procedure in the nurse's conflict. We know that there is a hump, both from the point of view of the nurse's conflict and from the point of view of the corona, of patients who have not been able to obtain their treatment, which now needs to be resolved, while at the same time having to have a health reform where we are going to carry out tasks and where we have to invest in the near health service. There is a huge need for staff, which is why I think there is a marked lack of response from the government. I think it is absolutely necessary for us to start investing in health care, and I fully agree that it is historic that we are now saying that we are covering demographics. We have had governments in the past that have certainly not been willing to do so, and we have, among other things, been willing to do so. by ensuring in the understanding paper that we covered the demography, but that is not enough when we look at the under-financing that has been going on for many years and the task we face. That is why we need to invest further and we need to make increased efforts to recruit and maintain staff, because it simply cannot be right that we should also see in health care that we are becoming more and more dependent on privatisations through temporary employment agencies. In other words, because we cannot recruit doctors, we have to resort to temporary agency agencies where temporary agency agencies have to earn from it and where it will then be an increased cost to the public because we are not prepared to set the appropriate standards. It is, of course, crucial that when you go to work, you also get the recognition that it is also reflected in how society pays off the work you do. There we can only note that if we want to address this issue, we also have to deal with unequal pay. I think it is totally irresponsible in a socio-economic context that we are no longer thinking and that we are not helping to ensure that we also provide motivation for the skilled and indispensable employees we have, so that they can also see a perspective of staying in health care in 1⁄2 years, in 1 year, in 3 years and in 5 years. It is still completely incomprehensible to me that saving lives, holding people's hands in the last hours of their lives, being able to provide treatment and care when we are sick, by 2022 is a low-wage occupation. I do not get it, and I think we have a commitment, and that is why I think we should also ensure, through the Committee on Wages and salaries, that we get a real wage increase for the low-paid professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155738	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think there is a text for adoption. It needs to be read up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155744	That's right. That's what it's gonna have to do. I have a text for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there are acute capacity problems in a highly pressured health service. There are problems with the flight of personnel and unseated health care posts, which in the end is detrimental to patient safety. This is due to a number of factors, including justified dissatisfaction with working conditions and wages. Action should be taken as soon as possible to remedy the flight of personnel, etc. to ensure continued strong health care. In winter, a majority of Parliament's parties agreed to allocate funds to a temporary emergency package for health care. That help's about to expire. The Danish Parliament therefore calls on the government to send an important signal to public health officials that funds and action will follow when the Labour Structure Committee makes its recommendations. Therefore, by the end of the year, several billions of dollars will have to be allocated for a wage increase to the low-wage groups in health care and welfare across the board. • V 59).
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155841	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. We therefore go further on the rapporteur's list and that is Henrik Møller from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331155901	That's right, thanks for that. We recognise that healthcare professionals are the most important resource of our health services. It can be said that the strength of health care is largely the result of the high level of professionalism and the enormous commitment of health care staff to work with every day. In other words, health professionals are the backbone of the Danish healthcare system. There is no doubt that the last two years have made it clear to all of us what it means for a society to have a strong and solid health service. Over the last two years, the health personnel have provided an extraordinary effort for the community, and of course thanks are due for the enormous effort. We both see and hear you clearly; we see that you are under pressure; we know that you are running faster and faster; and despite the fact that in recent years we have trained more nurses and doctors, you are running very, very fast. Of course, it is not sustainable if we continue to have a robust healthcare system, where even more time can be released for the individual patient. This requires some political answers and, above all, solutions, especially when we look into the future, where the demographic trait means that we are growing older and cynic and fewer in working age. We are currently facing major challenges in our society. Capacity challenges in health care and a general lack of hands in the public sector are one of them. That is why I am also pleased that the government addressed the challenges of the health reform, which was presented just over two weeks ago. Because, as I started my speech by saying, health professionals are the most important resource in our health system. As part of the health reform, the government has proposed to set up a Commission for Healthcare Sustainability. The Commission must make recommendations for solutions to the fundamental challenges posed by the demographic features of staffing capacity in health care. The Commission must look at how we ensure that there is both staff and time for patients. There must be more flexibility and interdisciplinaryness in the way in which the tasks are carried out. There must be less bureaucracy and a better working environment. There is no easy task, and this calls for a rethink of the solutions, and this is best done by putting relevant players into play and allowing them to develop concrete recommendations for solutions. I look forward to seeing the results of the Commission's work. But I also think that we should not forget some of the initiatives that have been taken by the economic agreements, we have given the regions and municipalities the greatest boost in the last ten years. In December, we reached an agreement to send 1 billion. kr. to the regions in a coronavinter package. We've set aside money for a thousand more nurses. In February, the government and Danske Regioner concluded an agreement to close the post-treatment period and to normalise the waiting times in the health care system. We have strengthened the food sector, where we have agreed, by the latest Finance Act, to allocate a small half billion kroner over the next four years to birth rights and to several midwives. And we have agreed to initiate an analysis and mapping of the standards. We in the Social Democratic Party have proposed a welfare law to ensure that the money comes with us when we grow older and children. On the health and safety side, as the Minister also mentioned, we have intensified our focus on preventing occupational health and safety problems in hospitals. In connection with the agreement on early retirement, we have set aside a pool of 30 million. kr. per year to prevent sickness absenteeism in the public sector. Then we have set up a pay structure committee to provide an analysis basis for the parties' discussions on the major and extremely complex challenges of wage structures and equal pay in the public sector. So we have already taken a number of short-term decisions which should very much benefit health professionals now and here. At the same time, a number of more long-term initiatives have also been launched, which we are also awaiting the results of. This does not necessarily mean that health professionals can feel a difference in their daily lives tomorrow, unfortunately. We also know that we are not there yet. However, one important bone in the new health reform is precisely to ensure the robustness of health care. That is why, of course, it also provides an opportunity for further discussion under this heading. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democrats, Radicals and the Free Greens, I should like to make the following points: proposals for adoption The Government and Social Democracy, the Radical Left and the Free Greens agree that it is essential that there are sufficient skills and staff to carry out the important tasks of healthcare throughout the country and that employees have a healthy and safe working environment. Health care is under pressure. This is due to a number of converging factors, including staff shortages, which challenge capacity. In the future, there will be more elderly people and more chronic diseases. At the same time, working age is increasing, increasing the risk of labour shortages. It challenges the resilience of health care and calls for new solutions. The consolidation of health care must therefore be discussed in the context of the negotiations on the reform of health. • V 60).
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160416	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160420	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. In fact, I would like to follow up a little on the answer given earlier by the Minister for Employment in relation to the recommendations of the Labour Structure Committee, where the Minister for Employment indicated that the government would of course follow up and allocate funds to address the challenges identified by the Labour Structure Committee. I would just like to ask whether the Socialist rapporteur agrees that, when the Labour Structure Committee makes its recommendations here at the end of the year, there must be means of meeting them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160456	In other words, I think that was an interpretation of what the Minister said. Because it is true that the Minister had to say that the Minister would follow up on the recommendations made in relation to the Wages Structure Committee, and that is what I have heard the Minister say before, and that is also what is meant by it. I also heard the Minister say that it would probably stick in many different directions in relation to the recommendations there were, but I did not hear the Minister put on an economy. So I can't confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160524	No, but now the rapporteur does not need to confirm what the Minister has said, and it is possible that I might over-interpret it. I now heard the Minister say that there would also be traces pointing in here at Christiansborg and that they should be solved in here. That is why I should just like to hear what the Socialist position is about, i.e. whether the Socialists are willing to find funds when the Committee on Labour Structures makes its recommendations, and whether the Socialists are not also of the opinion that if we are to address the issue of unequal pay, as we tried to do with the winter package, we need funds, including from Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160556	I don't think you're making me, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, promise anything in advance in relation to the economy of this. I insist that we on the part of the Social Democrats will follow the recommendations, as the Minister also said, which come from this Committee on Labour Structures. But I think it is simply anticipating the course of events to have some form of economic framework set in place at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160622	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160624	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. After all, I believe that health professionals are some of the coolest staff we have and the most flexible, and they must be targeted at ensuring that things change all the time, and that is why I think they per. definition is very robust. So when the rapporteur also uses the term'sustainability' in relation to the question of recruitment and retention, I wonder whether it does not make much more sense to look at the structural aspects of health care. I wonder, for example, if there is, if there is. an unknown substitute can get a better salary than a regular experienced employee in a department, so nothing is wrong with the structural in the way we have arranged things. When we see that incredibly many health workers are employed part-time, is it not an indication that there is an unmanageably hard working environment which, of course, we have to deal with structurally and do something about? What does the rapporteur think about working on the structural more than looking at the subjects as such?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160736	Sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160737	Now I feel a little bit about the fact that the discussion about the robustness of this is in relation to the individual employee, and I just want to say that my interpretation about the robustness is not that it is a matter of focusing on the individual employee, but that it is the overall health care, and that it is the robustness of the healthcare system, including also how it is, the whole employee composition is screwed together, what it is about some norms we give and what kind of financial we give about this. So it would be natural for me to see that the elements that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersens is proposing here will be part of what the Commission has to look at in relation to creating a robustness. So I do not necessarily believe that there is a contradiction between the robustness and the point of reference made by Mrs Kirsten Normann concerning the structures.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160827	Now I'm just trying quite specifically again: a loose temp gets a much better salary and also has much more influence on his own free time than a regular experienced employee who takes care of his work in a department; a lot of employees are employed part-time because they simply cannot be employed full-time because they have so little influence on their free time: approx. 4 weeks before Christmas Eve, I'm told if I'm actually off work so I can plan Christmas Eve with my family. Does it not make much more sense to focus on good conditions for employees instead of insisting on talking about robustness?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160907	However, I think that this is a bit of a distortion in terms of robustness, because it is a question of that Commission having to look at exactly the elements that are here. Some of that we cannot necessarily solve alone in here from Christiansborg. Some of this is what we are trying to do in relation to the improvement of the financial framework in relation to the norms and conditions surrounding the working environment. But part of it must also be in the regions in relation to the way in which jobs and functions are linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160938	Thank you for that, sir. Henrik Møller. There are no more brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331160948	Thank you very much. And thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this question... now we'll see if I'm gonna make it through this rapporteur's speech, sir. Peder Hvelplund. After all, we in the Left have long believed that there was a need for reforms in the field of health so that we can resolve the capacity challenges both in the short and a little longer term. Last year, in the Left, we presented another proposal for a reform of the Danish health service, and here I will try to draw out some key points. Our playout has, as it were, two parallel main sights. On the one hand, we have had the goal of moving more health services closer to the individual Dane. On the other hand, we have had a goal to strengthen what we call the close health care system, that is, everything outside the hospitals, with the aim of ensuring better time for the individual patient both inside and outside the hospitals. And now just to take a few impact points: we suggest ensuring better medical coverage. We have a goal that, by 2035 at the latest, there will be 5,000 practitioners in Denmark, and on the slightly shorter track, through various financial incentives, we will ensure that general practice can deliver more. And with several practitioners, we ensure first and foremost a real free choice for the Danes, but also that general practice can, as I said, help lift even more. We also want to strengthen the municipal part of the Danish health service, partly with the aim of reducing the number of re-hospitals and partly with the aim of minimising the number of admissions in general. In other words, we must have binding national quality standards in relation to the level of municipal health services. We have proposed that the first areas of application of national quality standards should be in relation to prevention, treatment of chronic patients, rehabilitation of, among other things. cancer patients and patients with brain damage and in relation to psychiatric patients. In fact, I think that, overall, we should have the objective that more people actually avoid hospitalization, simply on the basis that, after all, it is not so funny to be in the hospital either, and if we can just as well strengthen everything that is going on around the hospitals, then it will be beneficial for the individual patient as well. We also propose that more treatments be carried out in their own homes where possible. Very well is going around, but we need to strengthen the demand to meet health care in our own home. That is why we are also proposing the introduction of a genuine patient right in the digital field, in other words that patients should have the right to digital consultation with the health service in cases where it is health-care-friendly. We believe that this can ease the burden on patients as well as on health care as a whole. In addition, however, there is also a need for a real strategy for the spread of home care, a strategy with fixed measuring points. We also believe that up to 35 health houses should be set up across the country, where we collect relevant competences. And, of course, there must be a good geographical spread at these healthhouses, which can give Danes easier access to high-quality healthcare, and in the healthhouses there must be room for many different regional, municipal and private competences and professional skills. We also want to strengthen patients' rights in terms of strengthening the coherence of treatment for the individual patient. We have this proposal to introduce the right to a genuinely patient-responsible health care professional who can, as it were, hold the patient's hand when she or he goes across the health care system. We will introduce the right to package courses, as we know from the cancer area, for a number of chronic patients such as patients with psychiatric disorders. Finally, we will also introduce the right to an annual health interview for a number of chronic patients. And these rights must all contribute to creating greater coherence for the individual patient, better courses of treatment and thus in fact also ultimately: less pressure on hospitals. Secondly, we also believe that some of the low-hanging fruits that are already needed in relation to whether there are some employee groups that can carry out new, other or more tasks than are currently the case in order to relieve each other. In concrete terms, nurses have proposed that they want to extend their area of activity. We have physiotherapists who may be able to provide their services without having to visit a doctor, and there are pharmacists and pharmacists whom I mentioned earlier who would like more in terms of medicine management. Now the government has finally launched its health issue. In any case, we have not concealed the fact that, in our opinion, the government has taken a little too much time to make this proposal... an impatience that we have shared with many parts of Health Denmark... and then we must also say that we do not really think that the result has become so furiously impressive. One really has to ask how on earth this three-year government has succeeded in making a proposal that is less concrete in content than what the previous government made a political agreement on in 2019. I think that is quite impressive. Anyway, we have to get to work on the negotiations. In any case, we will try to offer constructively where we can. However, we do have this text of adoption, President, and it is on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, New Civil, Conservative, Danish People's Party, Left and Mrs Liselott Blixt (UFG): Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses criticism that the government is only two-and-a-half years into the parliamentary term calling for negotiations on a health reform. At the same time, the Folketing expresses criticism that the government's proposals for reform are not sufficiently concrete. More detailed suggestions are lacking as to how the hospital service is relieved by strengthening the close health care system. There is a lack of answers to how and when the municipal part of health care is raised to a higher and more uniform level in terms of... prevent (re) hospitalisations and strengthen the context of treatment. The government offers too few proposals for a structural strengthening of general practice, including the training of more general practitioners. The initiative also lacks concrete solutions to confrontation with silo thinking and bureaucracy, and how different professional groups can solve other, new or more tasks than is the case today. Finally, there is also a need for a real strategy for how more treatment can take place in the Danes' own home through increased digitisation. • V 61).
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161553	Thank you. All proposed proposals for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur from the Left. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161603	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. If I were a friendly person, I would refrain from asking questions to the rapporteur with the rather limited aspect of the vote, but I am not, and that is why, of course, I would like to take this opportunity to address a few questions to Mr Beazley. Martin Geertsen. I would like to know what the position of the Left really is in terms of a welfare law when it comes to the very principle that we should keep up with resources when there are more treatment-intensive elderly people; that we cover demography and, in our view, also in principle cover what is termed the extended welfare trait, that is, that expenditure must keep up with the increase in welfare that is taking place in society. What is the Left's position on this? In other words, are we prepared to ensure that, as there are more elderly people, we also ensure that the demography follows and that we allocate sufficient funds to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161703	I certainly think we should invest in our common welfare society, but we also have the starting point for the money to be there before we can use it. And we do not want taxes to rise in this country, so it does not go on increasing taxes that we, if I may say so, invest further in this welfare society. And then I think, sir. Peder Hvelplund needs to give an extra consideration, because we are standing here discussing how we should invest in health care in the future. There is no doubt that money must be spent both in hospitals and in the municipal sector, but basically, sir. Peder Hvelplund, this is also about spending the money wisely. I think, then, that when you invest in health care, you should think about whether for one year there may be a need to spend a great deal of money in the hospital system, and whether for the next year you will spend some extra money in municipal health care in order to strengthen the close health care system. And when I put it this way, it's because I think you should be careful with that very, very square automatic in how to spend the money and that you should think about how to use it wisely when we invest in health care. But basically, the money has to be there before you can use it, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161814	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161815	This is of course an interesting observation from a party that has just been reached in a national compromise, where I am well aware that 18 billion are being spent. kr., which one does not just indicate where comes from and where one attaches to a fixed increase of 2%. annual. This does not quite indicate that it is the same logic there, but it is possible that the rapporteur can explain it. However, what I would like to ask is whether the rapporteur also agrees that if we are to meet the challenges that exist, we need to do something about recruitment and retention. There is a pay issue that needs to be resolved. And will the Left also be willing to ensure that funds are set aside to enable us to resolve the unequal pay in the female-dominated welfare professions and that this is a prerequisite for us to have a strong and well-functioning health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161903	First of all, I have to say that I cannot understand at all that Mr. Peder Hvelplund and Enhedslisten want to engage in a debate on defence, but it must then stand for Mr. Peder Hvelplund's own bill. We would also like to see this resolved through the reform trail, in other words the question of increased defence expenditure. But that is part of a compromise. I also think that Mr. Peder Hvelplund must reflect on the fact that if you sit and vote in this Chamber that there is a staff group that needs to be paid more what it is, then it starts. Well, I think you have to ask yourself that. But in any case, as the government does, we are waiting for the Committee on Labour Structures, which will have a result later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161946	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331161947	Thank you. Feel better for the rapporteur. I hope that the rapporteur will not need a doctor because there is far too much work for far too few employees. And this is really one of our greatest challenges in terms of health care, I think. That is why I think it makes sense for us to talk about what needs to be done so that we can recruit more staff. At the latest admission to welfare education, there were only fewer applicants than we have seen in the past, and that is really, really worrying. So what does the Left think about the question of equal pay? So, do we have unequal wages, and is that one of the reasons why we find it so difficult to attract and maintain health care staff? What does the Left really think is a problem, or is it not a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162035	I understand that Enhedslisten and SF want to draw collective bargaining issues into the Danish Parliament. I don't want that. And in any case, we have to wait for that pay structure committee, and then you'll see what that's gonna mean. But I simply have no desire to do so. On the other hand, I very much agree with the fact that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen is asking for the matter of looking at the health services in structural terms. Henrik Møller. We will have to think about how we spend the money in the Danish healthcare system. I mean, the unconscious talk about how we spent so much money and then we spent so much money and then we spent so much money. It's all fine, but if the buttons are set incorrectly in the Danish health care system, and if too much is solved inside the hospitals, which could be solved outside the hospitals, and if that is the situation, then you have to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162130	But if the problem is enormous pressure and we also lose the opportunity to maintain experienced staff for the specialties for which we need them, then surely we cannot just close our eyes. Does it not make sense that we also have an opinion on the framework, on the conditions and on equal pay as a prerequisite for maintaining staff at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162212	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162213	I'm sorry, I'm just looking forward to taking Mrs. Kirsten Normann seriously; that's why I'm so eager. Yes, it certainly does. It is really, really important that we look at the framework. I am absolutely convinced of this and all sorts of people who are also smarter than me say that there is far too much going on in the hospitals today, which need to be solved outside the hospitals. Let me just take an example. I think it is the case that 1 in 10 of the elderly medical patients who are discharged from hospitals are going back in within a month, I think it is. If we could avoid that, we could relieve the hospitals. We have to think about that, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162252	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen for today's work. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162308	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for calling this important debate. A debate on the conditions in the health sector can only be meaningfully opened with a huge thank-you to the employees who every day make a huge effort for us when we are affected by illness. Despite all the challenges facing the world, we as citizens experience that everyone is doing their best to be safe and confident that health care is doing its utmost to make us healthy when we are affected by illness. Not least the last two years of corona have challenged the staff. That was also the reason why we agreed in the Finance Act negotiations to allocate 1 billion. kr. for a winter pack. Winter doesn't last forever, fortunately, but neither does the winter package. It is therefore crucial for SF that we can soon present some more long-term solutions to the capacity challenges, which unfortunately do not just disappear. It is the SF's expectation that the negotiations on a health reform with needle-stick precision will quickly stem the most obvious problems. It is a fact that more and more elderly people will also mean more patients in hospitals and more elderly people need help in the municipalities. This is not new, but it is now that we are feeling the impact of demographic development. There is far too much work for too few employees. That is why we need to look at how we can simplify workflows, work for more interdisciplinary work, etc., but we also need to ensure a clear and clear framework for patients and citizens so that they get the best possible and the right help, and we need to prevent more people from needing health care. For years we have been talking about the close and coherent health care system. It is vital that another reform seriously creates a clear and quality-proof framework for cooperation between municipalities and regions. But too many tasks for too few employees also require labour market policy action. First of all, we need to train enough staff, but it is naive to think that we can improve the search for women's domination welfare if we do not also take equal pay politically seriously. It's a fact. I think it was wise to set up the Labour Structure Committee, and I look forward to seeing what they are achieving. But we also need a clear political signal of commitment to action once the Committee on Salaries' Structures has completed their work. Both the Working Conditions Act and the Agreements must of course be observed, but there is room for improvement. It should only give food for thought that the majority of employees are employed part-time. This at least testifies to the fact that there is too much work pressure and too little influence on leisure time. It is a paradox that an unfamiliar substitute has better terms and conditions than the permanent, experienced nurse or social and health assistant. Therefore, we in the SF will also have a full focus on the recruitment and retention of important and skilled health workers in the work on health reform. SF also has its own adoption text, where it says: Proposals for adoption • It is essential that there are sufficient skills and staff to carry out the important tasks of health care throughout the country and that employees have a healthy and safe working environment. Health care is under pressure. Not least because of staff flight and vacant posts. This is due to a number of factors, including: disproportionate number of tasks and the existing working and wage conditions. In the past, a majority of parties have set aside funds for a temporary emergency package which is due to expire shortly. Health reform must help ensure a longer-term strategy for recruiting and maintaining healthcare personnel. At the same time, with a view to improving pay and working conditions in the field of welfare, the Folketing calls on the government to send a signal to the Equal Pay Committee on the means of solving the problem of equal pay. • V 62). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162721	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. I would point out that it is not only necessary to obtain the most votes for its proposal for adoption. It is necessary to obtain a majority. So it will be exciting when we vote on the four proposals for adoption. There is a brief comment to Mrs Kirsten Normann from Mr Andersen. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162749	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen for her speech. I just want to make sure that SF also agrees that it is necessary for the Danish Parliament to allocate funds to the social partners to implement the recommendations of the Labour Structure Committee, i.e. when we talk about ok-24 in public. The only place that can come with the means to solve that problem is from Christiansborg. There is no other source of funds, just as there is no other source of funds. No rich uncles bring a bag of money. So I just have to make sure that the SF also agrees that funds must be set aside by the Folketing and that this must also be done in connection with the fact that the SF makes its recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162836	After all, we would have liked the government to have also helped send a signal to the Labour Structure Committee that the unequal wage problem, which is quite obvious and which has been created by many different things ■ I agree with the Minister for Employment, among others. is a consequence of the fact that women's occupations were placed in official reform in the morning of time as a kind of domestic worker, and that it has had an impact on what pay looks like today and how wages between men and women have developed over time; and that problem cannot be solved in collective bargaining. This requires that funds be set aside to deal with it. We would have liked a signal to have been sent that those funds should be found or that solutions should be found. In the SF we have also set a specific amount of 2 billion. kr., and we're in our fiscal game ready to fund it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162932	Well, I just had to make sure that the signal that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen is talking about is a cash signal, so that it is not enough to say here that we have to look at the issues, that we have to look at what challenges there are and that we then have to look at how they are to be solved, but that money needs to be put on the table if we are to solve the challenges of unequal pay in the female-dominated welfare professions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331162957	We have always expressed the need for funds to be set aside to solve the problems, and we are, of course, waiting for what the Committee on Labour Structures says in relation to what the problem is, what the scale of the problem is and how unequal wages are distributed among the respective occupational groups. We should not interfere with that. We leave that to the social partners. But we also know and I know, because I've been working with agreements my whole life... that exactly this problem is not solved in collective bargaining. An extraordinary effort is needed to solve the problem of unequal pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163033	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. I apologise to the President for letting the desire to finish over justice. It won't happen again. I would like to welcome Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163052	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for raising this very important debate which I also think we need somewhere. And also a great thank you to the tens of thousands of staff we have in our health services, who make a strenuous and excellent effort every single day and a thousand thanks to them. Then I must also start by saying that I think it is disappointing that the government did not already in 2019, when the government joined, embark on a reform of our healthcare system. After all, there was an excellent proposal in the Minister's drawer when the Minister took office. It could have been based on this, and it could have been ensured that we were already starting to consolidate the health system at that time. Because it is precisely a question of ensuring that resources are used as well as possible, and there will be closer cooperation between the municipalities, the general practices, the medical practitioners and the hospitals could help to solve some of the problems. I feel quite convinced of that, so that we ensure that patients are treated where it is most appropriate and also that the different sectors are closer to each other and know each other's competences. After all, we were given visibility lessons on how little robustness there was, if you can put it that way, in connection with covid. The second time that covid was elevated to being a social-critical disease, it was not so much because of the disease as such, but simply a question that the Danish Health Service had considered that our health services were not robust enough, so it was therefore necessary to impose more restrictions, and this had major consequences for our society. As far as dimensioning is concerned, I have repeatedly attached great importance to ensuring that some more practitioners are guaranteed, because we know what general practice can do. In cases where doctors know the patients and patients know the doctors, they simply have fewer admissions per year. Patient. It was a place to start, that is, to ensure that we have enough practitioners. In the same way, we also have challenges with the dimensioning of specialists in our hospitals. I myself come from a region where we have had to employ specialists through temporary agency agencies, which is also quite inappropriate. That's how you can point to a lot of things. Of course, we must ensure that some more nurses and bioanalysts are trained, and now, in fact, there has also been a shortage of rescuers, so that our emergency preparedness is under pressure. We also have great challenges in our psychiatry, where we lack beds and psychiatrists. And that's how you could go on. One of the things I am also thinking about is that we hear repeatedly at least that there are problems with the Health Platform. And I would like to suggest that we work a little bit to look at if we could not create some rationalisation there. Thick books have been written about how much time is wasted in connection with doctors and staff use of the Health Platform, and that was one of the places where something might be picked up. However, we are at least in a situation where there are marked differences in health provision across the country, mainly based on staff shortages, and of course we cannot be aware of this. We need to ensure that we have a health service that is robust enough and that also offers a uniform offer, regardless of where you live in the country. One of the things we should also do was to set up a Prevention Commission. I miss that a little bit in what's being worked on. That is why we also have it in our financial legislative proposal, in other words, that funds should simply be set aside for a commission which can provide some good input on how to get as much money as possible when we talk about prevention. Finally, I would like to say that, of course, I am looking forward to the negotiations which have started so little. We have had a lot of presentations of different kinds and nature, and we need to see if we can get a health agreement that will make our health care system more robust. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163509	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163511	Thank you. And thank you to the President-in-Office for being aware of the pressure. Actually, I just want to hear sir. Per Larsen, whether Conservatives agree that there is a problem of unequal pay in the female-dominated welfare professions, and that it is necessary to give a concrete wage boost if the problems of recruitment and retention are to be solved when the rapporteur himself points out that there is a shortage of labour and therefore there is also a need to be able to give a wage boost if that issue is to be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163552	Well, we have great challenges in many areas, and we can see that the need is growing in different professional groups, both in the private and in the public labour market. However, precisely in relation to the issue raised by the rapporteur, a Commission has been set up to look at it, and then we have to start from what they will come up with when the time comes. But otherwise collective bargaining is something that takes place among the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163622-2	Yes, but now it is the case that when there are collective bargaining in the public sector, the money can come from just one place, and it is from in here. So if you want to address that issue, you have to be able to give a guarantee that you will be willing to solve the problem. And it is, of course, a question of setting aside concrete means to be able to give rise to a wage increase. So does the Conservative rapporteur agree that if the problem of unequal pay in the female-dominated welfare professions is to be solved, it will require cash from Christiansborg as well? Will the Conservatives be willing to find them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163700	It would probably be a little reckless of me if I started to say something about us following the recommendation from that commission crown to crown. It doesn't add up like that. That depends entirely on what result they come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163714	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Per Larsen, and welcome to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331163730	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF rapporteur for such a pleasant greeting on the way up here. It's always nice. Now we've been working together for many years now, so it's gonna be okay. And thank you to Enhedslisten for bringing this debate up, because it is really, really important. At the same time, of course, it is important that we all do so, too, and I think that there is broad agreement on this issue, sending out a great deal of thanks to health professionals who have really fought in recent years to keep the health care system going and to get us through the covid, and now they are fighting to get rid of the humps that lie in both the one and the other kind of operations that are waiting so that we can move forward in that way. I was glad to hear the ministers' answers to the questions, but I was a little sad that I did not think I had very clear answers to the questions I had. It is not certain that I will have them today, but then it may be that I can have them during the negotiations we are going to enter. The Minister for Employment pointed out that the Labour Inspectorate has done its job and been out looking at the conditions in our hospitals and health care and has found that, which may not come as a great surprise, namely that they are really, really busy: there is a great amount of work and there is a great deal of time pressure in many places. There's something I would have liked an answer to. A target figure has been set for fewer people to experience mental stress, but how do we actually get fewer people to experience it? That must, in effect, be the crux of it. Of course, it is good enough to know that the problem is there, but we must also do something about it. By the Minister for Health, I tried to find out if you would not take seriously more internships. It is such a very trivial thing that one could do in order at least to start, that we had more doctors and nurses, etc. I've been trying to do this for the past year. A year ago, before the summer break, we made a broad agreement in here on the relocation of training places. In that agreement it was written that there should be national work with cooperation with regions and municipalities to solve this problem. We made a follow-up agreement on that agreement here a few weeks ago, and in this context I was trying to find out whether the government had actually done anything in the year that has now almost passed. What had happened was that one meeting had been held over the autumn and there was nothing concrete at all. Now it's again in the follow-up agreement we made that this has to be addressed. It is not something that needs to wait for a commission to work to strengthen the system and make it more robust; it is really just about giving a clear message to regions and municipalities to get this thing going, so that we can at least get some more on the education courses. Then I can then look at the last number of applications for nursing education that it has unfortunately actually fallen. Now we can hope that quota 1 will look better when we come this summer, but what I am at least signalling is that we are talking about a professional group which, unfortunately, feels a lot down, feels looked down on and does not feel taken seriously. We had a conflict last summer which ends in an intervention, and now we have had 10 years with primary school teachers who have been ill, and I know several teachers who have stopped because of the intervention that was there ten years ago. I really, very much hope that we can avoid the same thing happening to nurses, because we need them and we need them to keep going and that they are fighting their way through. That is why, of course, it is also very important that the government should now, when the Wages Structure Committee, as it is called, bring some results, take on the responsibility of making the nurse really believe that this is being taken seriously, that we are actually doing something about this. Otherwise, I think we're gonna have another problem. That's, yeah, some of the big stuff. I would say that I am quite sure that if we are to resolve this, we need to be much more concrete than I think the government has been in the process of reform that we have now been dealing with. But of course it makes room for the rest of us to come up with some input that we can then get in so that we can actually make something happen. There is no doubt that we must try to get more staff, but we must also try to ensure that we make the best use of the resources we have. Some of the minister and government addressed, and this is the case in relation to expanding the business area for different professional groups. I think we could get to work on that, because it is just in order to simplify some things at that stage. Then we have a challenge to ensure that the practitioners also carry out their duties and not just throw the task into the hospital and not just push things forward because they do not want to take responsibility for the tasks themselves. So there really are some things that need to be worked on and that we are getting to grips with as quickly as possible, and I hope the government will, of course, be involved in that, and I hope that this debate will, if nothing else, help push for something to happen and that some good solutions will be found. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331164237	You're welcome. There is no brief comment to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. There is no new citizen, there is no Liberal Alliance, nor do I see any rapporteur from the Free Greens or the Christian Democrats. So the trip has come to the Minister of Health if he wants to climb the platform. At least there's a few steps up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331164308	Yeah, I'd love to. Thank you for one, I think, good debate. What is interesting here is that there is in fact a recognition of the problem, and it is also agreed that this is a challenge for us. Then there are different solutions, and in this situation I am only concerned about finding out where we have the common quantities, and when we are negotiating our goal is to have a broad settlement • to make the common quantities as good as possible and, of course, also as large as possible. So it has been very beneficial for me, and I also know that we have had officials over in the Ministry of Health who have sat and noted what the rapporteur has said, so that we can find out whether we can find common quantities that might be included in a health reform. But it is, of course, political work, and it is our job to do so, and all of it must be based on ensuring that our healthcare staff have a healthy and safe working environment so that they can be there for our patients. We can see, and we have seen it here this winter, that capacity challenges are affecting our patients. You can feel it when there's pressure when there's a rush. In concrete terms, some people feel that they have had delayed operations that can be postponed, but they also feel that they are entering a busy hospital unit. I also meet employees. There is nowhere they say they are too many employees and there are far too many colleagues. Of course, we don't know that. That's not what I'm saying, but in some departments there's a lot of work going on and running and stuff like that. We know that. But there are also some who say: here with us we have the time to be with our patients. So it is important also to say to the young people who are considering the future and where to apply, that there are also plenty of good days in our health care, where there is urgency, because you get things out of hand, but there is therefore also the possibility of exercising your professional skills for patients. Then we have discussed economics here. You want the money to come with you, or aren't they? For us to see in the government that is a prerequisite for ensuring that there are good enough opportunities to be a health worker and thus also the possibility of being seen and treated as a patient and receiving the help needed. We cannot continue to push more tasks and more patients into our health services, either municipal or regional, without using funds too, and, in addition, we also need to think differently. Then there are more who have asked, and we also very diligently note that, for this matter of commissions. It is not new in the Folketing to have a commission; I think it is fairly used in many places, but it is also not new that there is a risk that commissions may become pickles. When you talk about it, you always ask if it's just a jelly jar and if we have to wait. After all, we have proposed the Director of the Health Service, Søren Brostrøm, as head of the commission, because he has said with that popular expression at the moment that the hand on the hob is really working with it and enjoys great respect and great deserved recognition all around our health care system. So we think it's the right person is put in charge of it. But we need to make it quite clear now that we need to discuss it with the parties that, in our view, we need to get as much work done as possible as quickly as possible. But then there is just a limit to how many snatching solutions you can set in motion and how much it can work, so something more fundamental needs to be put in place, and it is important that you also do a little more thorough work, which a commission can do. So it should not in any way expose or tighten up what we can do in the short term, but it should be able to build on it in such a way that it gives our health care sustainability in the longer term. So I look forward very much to continuing discussions on this in the negotiations on the reform of health. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331164723	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments to the Minister for Health. The first one's from sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331164729	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Health. I think it was the Minister for Employment who mentioned this election promise about the 1,000 extra nurses, and we have asked a few questions about how the implementation of it is going, how it is going with the implementation of the extra nurses, and when we have asked about it, we have only been able to get figures until Q3 2021, that is to say the time when the conflict was. And I think it's pretty striking when we're standing here 3 months into 2022 that we still don't have any figures on how it's actually going to live up to the election promise about the 1,000 extra nurses. Because I have to say that my concern is that they have actually just disappeared into the huge nursing shortage that is already there and that the concrete effect has therefore not really been seen. But can the Minister clarify why we still can't get numbers any further than when the nurse's conflict started in 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331164833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331164835	It is true that the figures are a little late. We do, of course, that every quarter, as far as I remember, or at least on a regular basis, we send figures to the Folketing. And the challenge is, of course, that numbers extracted during a conflict are influenced by it. As the Minister for Employment rightly said, we have set aside funds, and we did so together with the Finance Law parties, to make up 1.000 extra nurses, and the goal was to achieve it within two years, and we did so in the second quarter of 2021 1.009 more nurses. So we achieved that goal, but then we got a conflict, and that figure has gone down, and then we wait to get the latest figures, and there have been some definition challenges for how to define nurse, and that has been resolved. But when I get them, I'll send them over to the Folketing as well. Now we reached the goal here, but of course the figures are now influenced by the conflict there was, so there is also a great task ahead of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331164938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331164939	I am glad, then, that the Minister for Health also recognises that the nurse conflict has had a huge impact on how we can prioritise maintaining staff. Then I would just like to ask what I also asked the Minister for Employment for earlier, i.e. if we can get a guarantee that when the Labour Structure Committee makes its recommendations, the answer will not be that we now have to wait for the Commission for sustainability in health care and what recommendations they make, but that the recommendations that come from the Labour Structure Committee here at the end of the year will be acted upon in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165018	In other words, the pay structure committee has for us to see its own justification, and I think it was wise, and I think it was quite right that we had it set up, and it does not have any embezzlement on the work that this committee of toughness we are proposing in the health services should have. It is clear that it is also about how to ensure management and how to distribute work and such things, i.e. how to make work more flexible. That is what we have to look at, and it has nothing to do with pay issues. So the two elements are not, in this way, some that for me now here have a connection. It is so of course before I have seen the result of the Labour Structure Committee, but immediately I do not see the big context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165100	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165102	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. I can hear that the Minister is looking for common quantities, and that is fair enough in itself. I think that there is also enough to tackle, because there are really, really, many different approaches in the government's proposals for health reform, one has to say. This leads me to say that I think that recruitment and retention are absolutely one of the most important things if it is the case that we should, as well as strengthening health care, and I believe that we should. However, I think that the Minister may reveal what the Minister considers to be the most important efforts if we are to solve the very acute problems we have with the fact that there is far too much work for too few employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165148	That's the huge question. And my answer, the government's answer is, of course, our health issue, so it is a whole series of elements: something here and now, and what we have discussed, and several rapporteurs have mentioned it, that is to say, an independent business area for nurses and there are several other professional groups and also to make it easier for social and health assistants to further train themselves; and more tasks that the midwives will be able to use their professional skills to carry out for their own benefit and, of course, also those who are born. So there's a lot of things we can do right now. In the longer term, there is this commission we are proposing, but then it is also quite fundamental to strengthen quality and to move more care, because we have not built these hospitals so that we can have all those hospitalized, and that is one thing. That's the system response. The second is, of course, about the individual elderly medical patient who is being re-established after he has just been discharged and completed: the better it is if he can prevent that re-housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165256	Thank you. It may well be, because I am a nurse, that I have a little allergy to commissions, because I think they tend to just mean that it will take a very, very long time before we resolve the problem. I don't think we have time to wait for that. We just tried with that winter package that we made together here with the Finance Act and that we sent out. Now the winter is over well for us, but not so good for the staff, but it had a positive effect. After all, it had the function of keeping the staff in the departments. Do we really not have some experience there that we should draw on in the further work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165336	I have to say that it is a new break to make such a winter package, and it was also a new situation we were in. So how would it just be accepted, how would it be implemented? After all, it was regional coinage that was part of the agreement, and I think it has been a great job both of our regions, but of course also of the professional organisations to accept it. I think it shows that it was the right thing to do. What we are now doing here is that we have agreed with our regions, the extra work that has to be done is being paid so that you can get rid of the humps that you have after this winter and after the nurse's conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165412	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to the Minister for Employment, who should be called the Minister for Labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165431	Thank you. Thank you for a good debate. On the whole, I agree with the summing up of the Minister for Health. There is no doubt that health care conditions are an important issue which concerns many people and with good reason. As everyone from the various parties that have participated has also mentioned today, health care plays a crucial role in our society, and health workers, like everyone else, must have a healthy and safe working environment. No one should get sick or get hurt as a result of going to work. It is the regions that are responsible for ensuring that health and safety at work is in order, but, as I also mentioned in my opening speech, we, as a government and as a Parliament, have a responsibility to support that the regions have the framework for creating healthy and safe healthcare for everyone, both patients and employees. In the government, we have launched a number of initiatives, and we are constantly focusing on whether there is a need to do further to support a good health and safety environment. In addition to the forthcoming discussions with the Minister for Health on a new health reform, I welcome the fact that the government is preparing the basis for a new health and safety agreement. The agreement must provide the framework for a healthy and safe working environment, including in health care. Once the government has presented its draft Finance Bill to 2023, I will call for political negotiations on a new Working Environment Agreement. So once again, thank you to the Enhedslisten for calling the debate and thank you for today's discussions on a very important subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165605	There are a few brief comments to the Minister for Employment. The first is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165612	Thank you. I would like to ask the question again in relation to part-time employment. Health is just one of the areas where allerallermost employees are employed part-time and where it is really, really difficult to lure employees to work full-time. It is clear that it also affects the number of people you have at your disposal. The more part-time, the more we need to get more staff trained for the area. So there would be a huge potential such capacity-wise by having more full-time. If we cannot lure employees to work full-time, then this also shows that there are major problems with the working environment. Could the Minister imagine that it would have a special effort, for example, from the Labour Inspectorate or from the government, to look at what kind of factors are the reasons why we cannot get health workers to choose full-time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165717	I think that Mrs Kirsten Normann points out something really, really important, namely the need to analyse in depth, that is, what are actually the underlying reasons why there are so many people in our social and caring sector who opt out of full-time work and opt for part-time work. I believe that there are several different explanations to some extent, and that is what we have known over the years. I know that for a number of years the FOA trade union campaigned to get a right and a right to work full-time, but where it was financially speculated in the municipalities by offering only part-time jobs. There are some who point to the pressure of work and the workload as a cause. And then there are other explanations that I have heard and that I think we really should look down on: the fact that it may seem in some places that we have created a slightly evil cycle in the sense that it has become too much of the organisation of health care, that you hire temporary workers at higher hourly rates, which then makes people have their permanent jobs part-time and work the additional hours in temporary work hours. I think that, overall, we should look at everything if we are to meet this part-time challenge, because there is a very large labour reserve if we can get people to move from part-time to full-time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165836	Thank you. In fact, I agree that there is also something cultural and structural in the way work is organised, especially when you look across the resorts. But if that is what it is, then it is also a very, very expensive use of resources in society, i.e. if municipalities and regions deliberately continue to opt for part-time employment because it is cheaper for the individual department but hugely expensive for society. Is this not an area of action which we cannot just stand by, but where we have to point out that we have to have everyone on deck? We need to use the capacity that is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165916	Yeah, I kind of agree with that. That is why I think it is reasonable to carry out some kind of major budgetary analysis of what the economic cycle of this is really. I haven't looked into it enough to conclude. At any rate, I can only say that my intuition tells me that perhaps there is a rather large waste of resources in that in many parts of the health and care sector we hire temporary workers at hourly rates in order to do the same work you could have given to permanent workers, perhaps even to a higher basic salary. But who knows, that budgetary analysis has to uncover that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165958	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331165959	Thank you. We have now seen the latest figures for quota 2 admission in welfare education, and for nursing training there has been a decrease of 36%. I mentioned earlier the consequences it has for midwives, for nurses, for sosus who work in welfare professions. And we can see that every day we wait, it has consequences. Now I have noticed that the Minister for Employment says that when the Labour Structure Committee makes its recommendations, action must be taken on this. However, I cannot quite understand why the Minister for Employment has the calmness to wait to give a clear message to the staff who are out there that changes are going to happen. For every day that goes by, the problem is growing, and what is a demand is getting a clear message that yes, we are going to raise the salary, we are going to set aside additional funds. Why is it that there is the reluctance to give the clear message right now so that it can create the hope for the people who work out there and need to see that this is a problem that is being resolved?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170118	The reason why, as Minister for Employment, I cannot just stand and throw such promises from the platform today is that I am not in Mr. Peder Hvelplund's position. I do not have a lot of large billions of dollars to juggle around without having an eye on, on the one hand, where they come from, and, on the other hand, what they really will have for some impact on the whole negotiating system, the whole wage formation, both internally in the public sector and also in the public-private-sector relationship. What you just have to think about is that if, at Christiansborg, you decide that you want to fit into the city in the absence of a better Danish word............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And these are the things we want to have a clear overview of, on the one hand, what the specific challenges are, and, on the other hand, what you can do exactly and then politically on the back of it take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170233	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170234	But no one is talking about the urbanization of the collective bargaining system. The truth is that if funds are to be provided for the public collective bargaining, they can only come from one place, and that is here. No one else brings money; there is no increase in productivity that can then be reaped and translated into an increase in wages. There's only one place the money can come from, and it's here. We also solved the problem of the regulation in relation to the winter package. Of course it can be solved; the challenge is simply that if we are to ensure a real settlement in relation to equal pay, it requires political will to allocate the funds to it. And that's just the message you're thirsting to hear out there: that we're already going to do it. Because I believe that the consequences of not doing so are going to exceed the consequences of waiting, both socio-economic and human.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170325	But I think I have made it as clear as I can on behalf of the government that we will be following up politically on the recommendations contained in the work of the Labour Structure Committee. But the fact that it is a pay structure committee that has to look at the labour market in broad terms is precisely because of the link with wage developments in the private labour market, which has most often drawn wage developments in the public labour market throughout history. If Christiansborg now has to allocate two-digit billions to add to some pay pools, what does that mean for the regulation system? What, moreover, does this also mean for wage developments for all public employees in just five years' time, in ten years' time? And these are the things we need to have answered and seen in a context before we just set aside a certain amount without having any clear ideas about: how is it to be used, how is it to be distributed, and what is the point of everything?
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170423	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments in this round, because now we are starting the second round. We have plenty of time. And the first to speak in the second round is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170443	I think this is one of the most important and defining debates we can have at the moment, for the society we need to have in the future. When we see the development that is now, with an increasing number of tasks and the worker flight that we can see, especially in the female-dominated welfare professions and especially in the health services; when we can see the development that is going on in welfare education; when we can see the development that exists, among midwives and nurses in both municipalities and regions, among the professional groups that we so desperately lack, this is one of the most crucial discussions we can have right now. Because if we do not act on it now, it will have enormous consequences. This will have enormous consequences for our health services, it will have consequences for our welfare societies, it will create the risk of increased privatisation and will have an A and B team, where those who can afford to pay for it will receive better treatment than those who depend on public health care. So if we do not respond to that now, it will have quite dramatic consequences for our welfare societies in the years to come. I think the challenge is that for every day, for every week and for every month we wait, the challenge is growing and the task that needs to be done is going to grow and thus the extent of the problem. That is why I cannot understand why there is not the willingness to make it clear right now that this is a problem that needs to be resolved and that we are willing to do away with unequal pay; that we are willing to set aside, for example, the right to vote in local elections. 5 billion kr. to a low and equal pay pool which can be negotiated between the social partners for the next agreement. Because if we do not give the clear political signal, yes, then the staff we are so dependent on will lose the faith that we are willing to do something about it and we cannot afford to lose them now. We need them to stay. We need to instill in them the hope that this problem will be resolved and that we will actually create a labour market that they can sustain and where they can also see a future for themselves several years to come. That is why I think it is rather awkward that we should be standing here again and that it also sounds as if it will not be the last time, but that we will have to take the debate over and over again until we resolve this issue. I therefore agree that some things have moved in the right direction, for example. that we now cover the demography, but there is a huge task in terms of investing in the near health care, in relation to all the tasks that we are now pushing into the near health care, after we have centralised and specialised in super hospitals with quality fund buildings. But the most important task and the most important challenge is that we can ensure that we can continue to create working conditions and pay conditions that enable us both to attract new generations to enter and work in our welfare profession, but also to maintain those who are there and to avoid seeing the strain we have seen in recent years. Because it is quite defining when dealing with such life-defining tasks as caring for our sick and ensuring that they receive treatment, and ensuring good conditions for giving children a good start in life and bringing them safely to the world and also ensuring that there are staff of the patients and citizens who are dying. In other words, it is a task that needs to be solved and a task that we should socially appreciate, so that it is not still a low-wage area here in 2022. I think this is an absolutely crucial task and I think it is defining what kind of society we should have. And that is why I am also looking forward to seeing a clear signal in the further discussions on the reform of health, and very much in the context of the Committee on Salaries' Structures, that this is not a lasting state, that this is a task that we are going to take upon ourselves and a task that we are going to solve. That is certainly what must be the message from the Enhedslisten in relation to the challenge we are facing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170921	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I want to know if there are any more people who want to speak in the second round. It was a clear message: there isn't. And then the debate is over. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the four proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 5 April 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220331170941	There is nothing more to do in this meeting except to thank you all for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 1 April 2022, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
