ParlaMint-DK_20220201130002	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 79 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on combating illegal permanent residence in colonial gardens). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the government's foreign and security policy strategy. R 11). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 24 February. Karsten Lauritzen (V) has informed me that he resigns as a member of the Folketing per year. 31 January 2022. 1 February 2022].
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130109	Are there any objections to furthering these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130135	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are five proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 31 by Rasmus Stoklund (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 28 (S), against 73 (V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 30 by Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and Pernille Vermund (NB) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 12 (DF, NB and 1 V (by mistake)), against voting 90 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 32 of Mads Birded (V) and Marcus Knuth (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 35 (V, KF and LA), against 68 (S, DF, SF, RV, EL, NB, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. Then we shall vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 33 by Carl Valentin (SF), Kathrine Olldag (RV), Rosa Lund (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Jens Rohde (KD), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 27 votes (SF, RV, EL and ALT), 76 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and FG). It has been rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 34 of Sikandar Siddique (FG) and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 2 (FG), against 100 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130426	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130431	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (RV, EL, FG and ALT), against 84 (S, V, DF, SF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130510	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. There are no more votes, so I ask those who do not want to take part in the negotiations to leave the Chamber. Now there has been time to complete all internal talk, and I therefore ask that further talks be held outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130621	The debate is open. Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130646	Thank you. It is true that we have here a motion for a resolution which will oblige municipalities to draw up urban nature strategies, for example. 20% nature in larger cities by 2030, a minimum requirement for a green area, maximum distance to green areas, a strategy for preserving old trees. The proposers also point out that local plans should take into account how biodiversity can be combined with climate protection and that cities with more than 10,000 inhabitants should employ a city gardener. It also means that, under normal circumstances, I would say that there are many good intentions in the proposal, but I think I would also say so much that, where we stand as a government, there is no doubt that nature is in crisis and that there is a need to act, both in our most valuable natural areas, but also in our most valuable natural areas. cities. So we have already made a large number of efforts, and I do not think I will go through it all, because I do not think I have that much speaking time. But if I have to zoom in on what it's all about, among other things. in the cities, we have given municipalities new opportunities to strengthen a coherent nature, for example in the planning of a Green Denmark map with the changes of recent years. We are also looking at how we can make possible efforts to ensure that municipalities can plan more for urban nature. The government itself has come up with a proposal: closer to green cities and a capital in development from May last year, where we have come up with our concrete proposals for some of the things that need to be done in order to be able to plan for nature and biodiversity and also make demands on the quality of urban nature, among other things. also proposals that allow the municipalities to set a minimum percentage for the greening of an area in the municipal plans, we have also created a competition to become Denmark's wildest municipality, and there is huge support from the Danes for us to help nature recover. Having said that, I think I will also say so much that I also think that the proposal here bears the hallmark of the fact that there are a great many things on a plate. There is no funding for it, nor has it been unfolding so much, so although the intentions of the proposers may be good, the government cannot support the proposal and, as I have said, we are already working on many of these initiatives, both at home, in the European Union, with the municipalities. Many of the good initiatives also lie in the municipalities alone, which is why, as I said, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130946	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201130953	Thank you, Minister. In other words, I share the assessment of the proposal itself in many ways, but what is interesting about such a proposal here is that it is based to such an extent on the new EU strategy, which also points to the need for biodiversity and green strategies for cities. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister thinks that there may be a need for us to set targets at national level for cities. How do we translate strategic objectives from the Commission into more concrete tools for municipalities? Does the Minister think that what we have done is a good thing or does the Minister think that we should set specific objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131032	That is what I would call a very helpful and leading question, understood in that way that I think I fully agree with the SF rapporteur that of course we are not finished doing everything we want to do for Danish nature where we stand today, but we have just taken some very, very great steps, together with SF, to help nature here in Denmark, made a paradigm change from the way we have created natural policy before. Of course, the municipalities are a very, very important co-player there and they are because of the initiatives they are taking themselves, and they are because of some of the tools we have given them. There is also a need for more things, and that is one of them. Some of what we are also working with the EU on how to ensure that even if you live in the middle of a city, you also have access to green areas. So, of course, we have to move along that way too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131117	Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131119	When you look at it in many ways very, very good strategy that has come from the Commission, there is a lot to be translated in the Member States, including Denmark. Is this something that the minister has already examined with his ministry, in other words, all the places where there are actually things that are not necessarily something that are being regulated at EU level, but which are up to us so that we know how to move forward with this strategy and can be in the green led-shirt, even when it comes to nature and biodiversity in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131149	As I mentioned earlier, we have already made a number of suggestions on how the municipalities can also get more tools, for example. to make demands on nature in their urban planning. But this is not the same as the fact that we have been through it all, and that is also what the rapporteur is asking about, in other words, all the work that lies on the part of the European Union. And it is clear that there are some more things that we need to unfold; which we need to find out how to fit in with what we want in Denmark. After all, we also have a municipal self-government in which we really want to play with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131221	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131222	Thank you. Now I can hear the Minister getting a little stuck in the economy of this. So, does the Minister believe that it costs something to transform parks from clean pastures into biodiversity areas that are more maintenance-free, and does the Minister believe that it costs something to think about biodiversity in climate protection measures in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131249-2	The reason why I say that we have to finance the proposals put forward in this Chamber is, of course, that this is the way we do it politically. If there are some of the areas that are important to give priority to some, and that is, no matter which party we are talking about here in the Danish Parliament, then money usually has to be taken into account in order to solve the challenges identified. It may be a matter of regulation, but most often it is also about the economy. It is clear that some of the things we do in the field of nature can be resolved without an economy. All the initiatives taken by the municipalities, for example. To create wilder nature on their natural areas, you can sort of just start with. And today almost all municipalities are already engaged in this competition to become the wildest municipality in Denmark. But there are also a number of demands on what the municipalities should do if they were to follow the resolution, and it is clear that this type of administration requires both bureaucracy and funding, and there is none of that in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131346	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131348	I am glad that the Minister says that it usually costs something. And these are suggestions. It is not the case that we say that it should, but in relation to the Biodiversity Council, 10 million were set aside. kr. of 2021 and up to 2024 4 million will be set annually. kr. off. Could it not be imagined that the Biodiversity Council could help put this together so that it could work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131423	I myself am pleased that we have a Biodiversity Council in place, but what characterises the Biodiversity Council is that, in addition to the fact that there is a mandate for the tasks that we think are important, it is independent. Therefore, it is also the Biodiversity Council itself which helps to define what tasks they intend to solve and what inputs they intend to give us here in the Folketing. That is why we cannot impose such a motion for a resolution on them here, for example. But there are also requirements in what will lead to a need for funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131456	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then we start the rapporteur's round. First, Theis Chicken Hommeltoft, the Social Democratic Party. Welcome and go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131526	First of all, thank you very much for the floor. And then I would like to thank the Free Greens very much for putting nature on the agenda here in Parliament today. Since the 2019 elections, the Social Democratic Government has worked hard to strengthen efforts for our nature, because nature is in crisis. Our species are in need, and our nature lacks room for nature. We must take this very seriously, and we do. The current government has gone a completely different way than the previous one. In December 2020, together with the Radicals, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, we reached an agreement on a nature and biodiversity package, where we set aside 888 million. kr. to a boost of nature. Animals and plants must have better conditions in Denmark, and with the package we create 15 national parks and lay out up to 75,000 hectares of untouched forest. We have already said this once, but it is worth stating once again, because our nature lacks space. With the Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten, we have agreed to allocate 50 million. kr. for the establishment of approx. 180-200 ha of new state forest in the metropolitan area. During the closure of the corona crisis, several Danes came out, and one in four Danes visited a natural area they had not visited before. And it must be possible for even more Danes to have nature closer to them. But although the intention of the resolution is good and we agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that there should be more room for nature and for urban nature, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Firstly, because we believe that the autonomy of the municipalities is a good principle and that we should not dictate objectives for nature in the individual municipalities from Christiansborg. Secondly, we in the Social Democratic Party have taken a large number of decisions that both give more space to nature and more urban nature, and those decisions must be allowed to work and be implemented before we from Denmark's perhaps most natural-golden part, the capital, let us get carried away with and do something hasty. And why do I say prematurely? Because we have, I do because the municipalities have gotten ahead of us and are already in the process. Working on biodiversity strategies, and in my own home municipality, Aabenraa in South Jutland, the municipality is in the process of mapping the natural value of all public areas based on field analysis work, and on the basis of the results, the municipality will develop care strategies to support increased biodiversity, but also develop inspiration material for citizens and business to do the same on their own land register. In addition, 95 of the country's municipalities have signed up for the DK2020 work, and climate protection projects are also beginning to focus on synergies with biodiversity. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for putting nature on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly, but on behalf of the Social Democrats I must say that we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131855	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131858	Thank you, and congratulations to the rapporteur for his first speech. In relation to the rapporteur's own home municipality, where I can hear there is a good cover going on in relation to looking at what qualities the different natural areas have or could have, does the rapporteur not think it was a good thing to spread it to all municipalities and that introducing such a natural strategy could help the municipalities to become very interested in listening to good experiences from elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131931	Certainly, but I actually believe and I am convinced that it is already on the way, so there is no reason why we should make pseudo-politics in this way, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201131940	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Congratulations on the rapporteur's speech. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132004	I would like to thank the Free Greens for focusing on this important debate on how to take care of our environment and nature in the future and how to ensure that nature plays a greater role in cities. For the Left, nature is very important in our cities, and the proposal also has a lot of good intentions and very good inspiration for how we can get more green cities. In fact, when I read the proposal, I thought that the proposal has a great many good elements, which I actually think I would like to go to the polls if I was a city council politician myself, or if I myself stood for local elections: how do we get a greener city where I live? How do we get better access to parks and nature areas? Because it's important. It is important to have attractive cities. It is important for the individual, it is important for our mental health, it is important for biodiversity, and it also helps to address some of the challenges we face with the climate. Fortunately, many good things are happening in the municipalities too, and even more good things are on the way. At least that's what I hear when I talk to my hinterland. I know that a great many of the left's city council politicians are very concerned about this green agenda. You could also see that if you followed the municipal election campaign. A lot of people had it as their priority in the municipal election campaign. Many good examples have also been mentioned in the proposal, for example that you want to have more wild gardens in Hjørring, and that at Frederiksberg you will have a local requirement to be able to see a tree from each house or apartment. Unfortunately, however, this proposal will centralise the decisions on how to get green cities. With the proposal it must be the Danish Parliament and the government that instructs the municipalities to set targets for nature, plan how to plan in the municipalities, and decide to hire city gardeners in each municipality to take care of these new tasks, which the Danish Parliament then has to impose on the municipalities. We in the Left do not think this is the right way to go. We have respect for municipal autonomy. We therefore recognise the good intentions of this motion for a resolution, but we do not believe that this is the right way to go, and therefore we do not expect to support this motion for a resolution either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132237	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132242	Thank you for all the good feedback and good comments and good intentions. Does the Minister not recognize that the proposal does in fact state that it has been proposed to, for example: 20% urban nature, and that there are ideas on how to do it, so that there is actually a pretty great freedom in this proposal that cities can do it the way that suits them best? What is the rapporteur's response to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132318	Thank you to the rapporteur for calling me Minister. We are working on that, but we are not there yet. Laughter Yes, the Left recognizes that there is a great deal of good in this proposal. There are a great many good examples, and there is also a free framework. I really think that is what this is all about: ensuring a free framework for municipalities, a good framework, and then I think it would be better to take that discussion in connection with the revision of the law on plans, so that we can ensure that we have this free framework for local authorities. But thank you for bringing all the good inspiration. I'm sure there's more people sitting there reading these good suggestions and thinking that they can be used locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132358	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132400	Thank you for your answer. If the town gardener were to be removed from the proposal, would the Left be ready to discuss it here in committee, to see if there is anything in this that we can get to the municipalities, so that a little more will happen than at least in some municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132420-2	Well, there are discussions right now about the law of plans and how to ensure the right framework for municipalities, and it is actually in the forum we think it is right to discuss how to ensure green cities. We think this is better than getting out of here and making some central resolution that governs how to plan urban planning in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132443	Thank you to the rapporteur. No more brief remarks. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132501	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you for the motion for a resolution. When you talk about more nature and more green spaces also in our cities, I actually think you talk to most Danes. They like to experience it. Then it has to be said that more nature is actually also part of the green transition, because when it grows out there and the trees grow, they actually absorb CO2 It is this planting some trees that we are happy to look at, and then it is actually also part of the green transition. It doesn't all have to hurt because it's a green transition. In this way I would say that I have read the proposal with the positive glasses in no doubt about it. However, we cannot support the proposal, and there are several reasons for this. First of all, it is always going to be a little difficult when it comes to making legislation, because it is going to be very square, because what is nature really and what is a green area? Is a green area a very, very nice lawn, which is free of moss, and where you make sure to give it plenty of fertilizer so that it is always green and looks beautiful and looks like a football field? It is certainly a green area, but one can discuss whether it is nature. So there are already some challenges in terms of how to draft such legislation. The second point is that I also do not think that we should do what we should say about imposing on the municipalities that they should do it now. In fact, I think we are in a situation where we are all working across parties, lists and other things on how to bring more nature into political thinking and how to bring more green transition into political thinking. That is why I see this resolution more as a good opportunity to debate it and to focus a little on what nature really can do and what qualities nature has. A natural area does not always have to be a very, very large area. There I am very much in agreement with the authors of the motion that you can also have nature on smaller areas. The Danish People's Party has itself in the past suggested that where you have some smaller areas in rural areas, for example where you tear down houses, you have the opportunity to turn them into small biotopes, so dig out to a small water hole and do something. Then you are already making some good resting places for our animals who are travelling. So I have positive thoughts about it, and then I hope that there are a lot of local politicians sitting out there watching and who are having such a debate here, because then we can give them some inspiration to take this up both in the cities, but also in the open country. The municipalities have a lot of land around them, and why not plant some trees? Why not have some places where you leave some wild nature? Why not do some places where you remember to get the land set aside so you get some open country? We actually need resting places and stuff like that for, among other things. Butterflies. They have fewer and fewer places to come down and rest. After all, these are debates such as this one that can give inspiration to those who can make decisions. So thank you for the proposal, thank you for the debate, but we cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132810	Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132812	Thank you. And thank you for a very positive feedback on the proposal. Does the rapporteur think that it would be appropriate to have a definition of what a green area is when one looks at it with biodiversity in mind? The rapporteur himself mentioned that with the fine lawns where moss is removed and manure is given etc., but could it not be appropriate to have a definition of: what is actually an area that is good for biodiversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132844-2	Yes, for the fact that you have to have a definition, so that you can be on the right side or the wrong side of it: I actually think it's better that we train each other a little in what nature really is, because I think that a lot of citizens in Denmark have such a feeling when they go out in a beech forest, where they can look through the trees that the sun shines down through, and there are crowlayers at the bottom. It's amazing to go out there. I like going out there, too. I think it's a nice walk to go, because I can look through the woods and see the cornfields at the end of the forest brow. It's an amazing natural experience. But you actually go to a production area and there doesn't have to be a lot of animal life. And that is why I think that instead of defining what nature is, we should learn from each other a little from each other, because nature experiences can be experienced very differently. And then there are also places where we need to mess a little if we are to have more biodiversity. But we also need the other one, where we can get these recreational experiences where we can run, where we can get out and use nature and use our own body, but to make such a square definition of it I think also becomes a little difficult in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132941	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201132943	I do not entirely agree with that. I think some biologists could easily find a definition of it, i.e. a definition that contains such a certain breadth, because we are not talking about things being one-way, we are talking more about it being native so that the insects can figure out how to use them. And then I have to pay tribute to that remark about a parking lot, because then you think that now he says for cars, but it was then for butterflies; I think it is fine to put it like that, because that is actually what we need. In relation to education, of course, I think it would be absolutely fantastic if we could get people to see a little more of what is actually the good nature. Does the rapporteur have any concrete suggestions as to what it might be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133021	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133022	But now I come down from Lolland-Falster, and when I stand here in the Parliament hall looking down at the back wall, I see a beautiful natural area from there. It is such an exaggeration where you have let cattle go out and the branches are allowed to fall down, and you can actually walk there, but you have to wear rubber boots when you go out there. It is an example of a good natural area, but you have to be prepared for not coming out on a path where you can wear the clothes we are in here, because there you have to get ready to have a natural experience. And so it is to be out in nature that you have to be prepared to meet nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133052	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133101	Thank you. The biodiversity crisis is quite, quite serious. And yes, as has already been said up here today, nature is screaming in place, and fortunately it is becoming more and more. It is in Denmark where I am pleased that we have managed to make a real effort for nature and biodiversity during this parliamentary term. We are creating areas where we think in ecosystems and not in individual individuals and individual species, so that we begin to give the opportunity for biodiversity in particular to grow. After all, it is also fantastic that we have a strategy in the European Union which, in fact, places emphasis on this and which makes a number of recommendations and objectives that need to be followed up on a regular basis. It is about how to protect much more nature in Europe, both on land and on water, how to create the strictly protected areas and how to restore nature. And then there is also a section dealing with the nature of the cities, the green towns, where it is suggested that some strategies should be drawn up around Europe and where the Commission has proposed that this platform be set up together with the regional councils. I believe that this is where the mayors and the regional elected ones sit. It can be said that much of this EU strategy is going to lead to a discussion about what we are doing in the Member States and what we are going to do about all these things. And we have a long way to go; that is also why I asked my leading question to the Minister for the Environment earlier, because there are a number of things where we are not yet in the finish line. We are going to have a lot of discussion about nature recovery when that directive is soon to be presented, so it will be exciting. There are all the proposals that come on forests and, above all, there is the protection of nature, which I believe will require a massive effort in Denmark, because we have very poor nature protection when we look at our country. We do not have much room for nature, but especially in an area like the oceans we are far behind. And it is a place where Europe as a whole lags behind and where Denmark as a coastal nation, of course, has a huge task. So there is such a need for an environment minister and a ministry to take the lead in reviewing the very, very sensible strategy from the European Union from one end to the next and find out: where is something to be followed up, where are there directives that we have to live up to, and where can we take the lead and do these things? And, of course, there is one important thing in addition to everything we have already done. With regard to the specific proposal, the SF does not support the proposal as it stands. It is not because we do not support the idea that national targets can be set for how to make green cities. Well, we kind of think you can. However, it is clear that a proper translation of this strategy, which has come from the European Union, needs to be made so that we can find out how to do this in the best possible way. It's 20 percent. nature, we're talking about, how do we do it in relation to a city, what do we count as a city? Does the municipality of Frederiksberg also have to live up to this in relation to some other municipalities? What will the economy be in that area that is not included in this proposal? And then, of course, we also have to discuss mixing demands for city gardeners, etc. Into the proposal. But we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133441	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133445	I would like to thank the rapporteur for all the good, positive words, for what we must do for nature, and for the fact that we really need help and that we are giving it the opposite right now. In relation to those EU strategies, would it not be good to get ahead of this? In other words, can the rapporteur imagine that we will have too much nature? Wouldn't it be good to tackle this now so that we can work our way forward quietly so that we don't get too low a starting point from the start?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133519-2	Yes, and that is exactly what I thought I said when I asked for us to actually have a proper review done by the Minister, in relation to what it is we have to live up to something coming as directives, and something becomes strategies that we have to make a translation of in Denmark. If the proposal was that we would instruct the Minister to look at how to implement the natural strategy in Denmark, also in relation to the cities, I would actually think it was a sensible proposal. But there are just some imprecises in this that make us unable to support it in terms of what it means in the individual municipality, the way you do it here. So, yes, we have to move on, and we have to get started right away. Fortunately, we have taken many steps; there are more to take, even before the European Union comes and pounds on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133604	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133605	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says a few things about us going that way and that it may be too tied up. Does the rapporteur not think that there is in fact a great deal of freedom in this matter that it is a proposal on how to do it? In other words, if you picked out the city gardener and looked at those proposals, would the rapporteur and the SF be willing to look at it in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133632-2	We are always willing to look at how we can make good proposals, in committee work, and this requires a lot of work. There's the thing about the gardener, but it's also how this is supposed to be implemented. So, yes, there is a lot of freedom in how it is formulated, but there are also many uncertainties in it, and then, of course, there is an economy that must also keep up. However, we look forward to the work of the committee on this, because it is important that we ensure nature in the cities as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133656	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201133705	Thank you. Are we still gonna get out of here, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). We do so, even though today is the day when we no longer need to wear muzzles etc. etc. But we better be on the safe side. Thank you for a super exciting suggestion. When you read it, it really gives a lot of inspiration, not least to our municipal politicians. I have to say that I received this proposal with a certain ambivalence, because when I read it, I was thrilled by the many important objectives and means contained in the proposal, but I also became a tiny bit indignant on behalf of our municipal politicians because I thought: why on earth should we have municipalities at all if we are to sit and steer so far down in detail? This is not because it is not a good purpose, but one could also have all sorts of other wishes for how to run day care centres or schools etc. and so on, but where we tend to hold on to the fact that there is a reason why we have a decentralised regime in the country, and that is that it is some decisions and some discussions that we need to have locally. And there may be different ways to go to the task of creating more nature around the cities. I know that this has been a matter for many of our city council candidates in the local elections that have just taken place, so it should certainly not be taken as an indication that it is not an area that interests us. On the contrary, I think they would be sitting out there feeling that I took the policy out of their mouth if we adopted such detailed plans for what should really be municipal politics in here. So we cannot support the proposal, but there are, in fact, no parts of the proposal that I do not believe our municipal politicians will support. And there may also be elements that may need to be decided on at Christiansborg. However, when I think about the great challenge, which is the biodiversity crisis, there is no doubt that we have a role to play. It is not just a municipal political debate whether you want to have nature or not; there we have a responsibility at Christiansborg to ensure that no more species are exterminated, that we create these large, coherent natural areas so that the endangered species can survive. There we have a basic task, which is naturally located here at Christiansborg. When I think of urban nature, I know that there is an EU strategy, and it is usually very good that things come from the European Union, because it can be used as a lever. However, I am thinking that it may not be urban nature that does something about the biodiversity crisis. On the contrary, it may be that something more urban nature does something more for, you might say, the human crisis, that we have come so far away from nature. So I am thinking that urban nature is primarily for the sake of people, and that is why I too dare to put it to the municipalities and do not think that it is a task that we have to solve from here. Our bound task is to stop the biodiversity crisis, and that is where we have now put in place the most important tool: to create large, coherent natural areas with large grasses, which is what is needed to save the endangered species, whereas the issue of urban nature is more about nature for us people. And I totally agree with that, but I think it is the municipal representatives of the residents who have to fight for that, and I am sure there are a lot of people who will. At least I'll say that mine will.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134055	A brief word on Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134056	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his feedback. The rapporteur mentions many ideas that can be used by local politicians and that it will then be centralised, despite the fact that it is actually said that it is But if we now said that, instead of making these proposals, we will have an agreement that we should have a percentage of how much nature there should be in the cities and that the municipalities must then be completely free, in terms of how they do it, would the Radical Left be in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134131	I'm not quite sure about that. I believe that my position will be that it is a decision that should be localized, but I do not want to completely reject it. Now I cannot in detail what comes from the European Union either, but there are also some requirements. As a starting point, I think I will be opposed to the fact that we have to decide how the cities and the elected representatives of the cities dispose of their territory. But I will not completely reject it. There could be good reasons for perhaps getting a lever for people in local government. But my and our basic attitude is that this is why we have a decentralised government in Denmark to make such decisions locally, and there you can then choose to create more urban nature. This is something that many of our municipal politicians have gone to the polls on, and I think they should continue to be able to do so, just as I think those who are against must vote for some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134234	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134236	Now, in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that there might well be some things that should be decided centrally in relation to the nature of cities. What kind of things could that be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134247	I do not know at this stage either, but I do not wish to deny that there could be things that I could be convinced of. But I think that the platform is also a place where one can be in doubt and leave things open instead of categorically rejecting them or saying yes. And my basic position is that as many decisions as possible have to be taken by local authorities, but that there may be things where we say nationally that there we actually want to go in and make the decision. And we do, for example. So I think we have to look at that on a case-by-case basis and from questions to questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to the Enhedslisten and Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134337	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Free Greens for presenting this motion for a resolution. Now I don't have to be smart about where Free Greens have found inspiration for it, but I can certainly see that there are more coincidences with the nature package •From the natural crisis to wilder and richer nature, which Enhedslisten presented in 2019, where we also had a section about the urban nature, but where we had also found the funding for it. And I will come back to that later. However, there is no doubt that this is an important debate that the Greens are helping to raise. This is the whole issue of the biodiversity crisis, where, fortunately, under this government and on this parliamentary basis, we have also ensured that we have funds for a nature and biodiversity package, such as this one. ensure natural parks and untouched forests. But it is quite true that there is a question about urban nature. For it is in the cities that the vast majority of Danes stay daily. The cities make up about a quarter of the uncultivated Danish land area, and we can see in the cities today how biodiversity is incredibly fragile, because it is to a very small extent included in care plans for parks and green areas, which are often characterised by cut grass, and where we in the cities also see a marked degree of both asphalt and tiles, including places where it could be nature. It is clear that the wild nature needs to enter the parks more, it needs to enter the squares and the squares and the harbour areas. We must do something to make cities both greener and wilder. We must ensure that there is an opportunity for the grass to grow and that the squash and the dead trees can be allowed to lie, so that habitats can be established for beetles and larvae and butterflies, so that we can get more biodiversity into cities too. So we are in complete agreement with that intention. That's one of them. also because we in the Enhedslisten have fought precisely to secure the green lungs in Copenhagen in connection with being against both the construction at Stejlepladsen and at Amager Samled, precisely to ensure that there are still green areas in the cities, also here specifically in Copenhagen. Now I myself come up from Hjørring, and there we have just seen that people today also often want something other than wastelands of monoculture consisting of lawns and robotic lawnmowers. And there is a desire for more wild about will-nature both in the gardens and in the cities. That is also why, in our nature package, we have just set aside 250 million. kr. to a nature for the people-pool, where the municipalities could actually go in and apply for funding for projects, because it is precisely a fundamental prerequisite that when we impose additional tasks on the municipalities, no matter how sensible we think they are, we must also ensure that concrete funding is included in the proposal. That is also why we cannot immediately support the proposal as it stands here, but I think there are some excellent initiatives in relation to it. I think it is a very good thing that the Free Greens are putting forward the proposal so that we can have the debate in this Chamber and that we can also help to press the government so that we get the job done here. I can hear from the author of the motion, Mrs Susanne Zimmer, that she is also open to us in committee to try to see how we might land it here as a joint report or other, precisely so that we ensure that this helps to maintain that we focus on the whole issue of urban nature and ensure that there are biodiversity considerations that are also being taken there, so that we ensure that they remain on the agenda and that the agenda is also lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134753	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134754	Thank you for the positive reports. It is true that some things will cost, and then there are some things that will not actually cost and that will actually cost less on the long track, because it is easier to maintain a wild natural area than it is to have to mow grass once a week or worse. But will the Enhedslisten agree to say that they will work on this and we will then work on getting some money set aside for it in the Finance Act 2023?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134826	This is certainly something that we will continue to work on. As I said, it was something we traveled back in our nature package back in 2019. So this is something we've been working on. And when I think it is essential that funds are set aside for this, it is because it is a bad thing if we impose tasks on the municipalities from here without ensuring that funding goes with it. And, of course, there will be a need for funding. Even though it may be said that this is something that in the long term brings a boost both in terms of the economy and in terms of biodiversity, it also requires investment in it, and it also requires the creation of an information and information campaign. I think we have seen it in connection with the Wild Med Vilje-project, which has enormous potential, but which also requires an effort to be made, and that the municipality also actively takes part in that effort and helps to carry out that task. So I think it is essential that we ensure that funding is included so that the municipalities are also compensated for the additional costs they are getting precisely in order to lift this important agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134924	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134925	Well, actually, there are quite a few municipalities that have started this. The rapporteur himself mentioned the municipality of Hjørring. There's Odder, too. And there are also projects in both Aalborg and Copenhagen that go that way; there are also some that go the other way. However, there are municipalities that find money for this because they can see that it makes sense and because it may not really cost so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201134949	Well, it is really positive that experience is being gained, and I myself am very concerned about the experiences that have been gained in the municipality of Hjørring. That does not change the fact that if this is an agenda we want to do, and if it is one where we say that we are going to lift it here, then we must also ensure that the municipalities are compensated for any expenses they may incur, so that it is a task that they can take seriously and so that they can make sure that those initiatives are implemented. So I think it is an obligation that lies with us. When we want the municipalities to take this seriously, we also have to show that we are doing it ourselves. And we are doing this by ensuring that we also allocate funding to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135019	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135039	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. In the old days, we called all this stuff with small clusters of trees, a corner with flowers and a large lawn with grass in the middle of town for green areas. New York has Central Park, and in Horsens we have Lunden and each city has its own style or lack of it. I very much share the intentions of the proposal. The time has come for us not only to design high-rises and garages. We need to include nature in the equation. I fully share the reasons set out in the proposal. Nature was here before us, and we have taken it for too long. There are many good and heavy reasons, but there is also the mental: well-being and glory. It does something to us that we can see the shift of the seasons, that we can hear the birds sing, that we can touch and feel and sense trees, flowers and shrubs and not just have concrete, stone and glass. Each city and municipality, with respect for itself, is already in full swing to re-establish creeks and low breath holes and recreational opportunities. You design urban nature, and you do so on the basis of exactly the specific characteristics and needs of the city in question. At the same time, the EU biodiversity strategy for 2030 is clear. There is no doubt that we in the Conservatives would very much like to support this work, and we are also currently in negotiations on the adaptation of the law on plans with, among other things, one of them. It's in focus. So thanks for the good input on how we can make our cities greener. For the same reason, we shall not be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, in other words because negotiations are already taking place where this is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135210	Here you go to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135215	Thank you to the rapporteur. That sounds really nice. So, what is it that makes the Conservative People's Party not want to start doing this now, before the EU's strategy comes, so that we sort of get ahead and give the cities time to get to grips with this? After all, the proposal is precisely that it is by 2030 that we must achieve that objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135240	But we're actually already on it. What we can record is that, for a large part, the cities and municipalities are in the process, and we are also in the process of including just some of these ideas in the negotiations on the law of plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135255	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135313	Thank you. Worldwide we have a crisis that consists of the extinction of plants and animals, and in Denmark we have historically made our very major negative contribution to this, by the fact that most of our country is either inhabited by people or is farmland where there is little biodiversity. In recent years we in Denmark have also started to create the possibility that we can have real nature where there is room for larger animals to graze, so that it can help to form the basis for certain plant species and the animals that come with the plant species to be there. And it's all good that we've gone this way in Denmark. Because nature requires space, and we find that space in the national parks that we have started to create and to plan. Cities play an important role in getting more biodiversity and nature in Denmark. They do so by making the people we are the least in the cities. It is so that because in cities you live close to and floor on floors, layers on layers, you can live 12 times as many people in the cities of 1 ha as you can outside the cities where you build one-family houses. In other words, the parties which claim that the cities are going to be used for green areas, which go beyond what we are already planning in terms of parks and recreational areas for people, that is, those parties that say no to building more in cities where people can be accommodated, do not really care about nature at all. They care about getting some voters who they can imagine something. Because we have to have the cities to accommodate the people who are. There will be 300,000 more Danes for the next 10 years. Where are they gonna live? If we do not make room for them in the cities, they live outside the cities where they fill more and take more space from nature than if they live inside the cities. That is why I simply cannot take parties such as the Free Greens, the Alternative and the Enhedslist seriously when they say no to the need for more people to live in cities and for all the space that may be in the cities of old business areas, old landfill sites, etc. For this means that people in Denmark instead have to live outside the cities, where they turn 12 times as much as they do inside the cities, thus leaving less room for real nature. I can't take you seriously. I cannot take Free Greens seriously, I cannot take Mrs Susanne Zimmer seriously, I cannot take Enhedslisten seriously, I cannot take the alternative seriously in relation to this agenda, because it is not about creating the basis for there being room for nature in Denmark. It is a question of talking to some urban voters after the word 'people who already live in towns, who would rather have some land for shared facilities, etc. than they would like some new neighbours, even though this means that these new neighbours, who could be there, would have to find a housing outside the cities where they fill more and take more space from real nature. So it's gonna be a no to this populist motion for a resolution from the Free Greens. I know that there will be many more of these things, and there are three parties vying to deceive the Danes into this area. So there are plenty of opportunities to table resolutions where more Danes are told that they would gain more nature by banning people living in the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135713	Mrs Susanne Zimmer, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135716	Now this proposal isn't about more urban settlements. It's about urban nature. However, I do not know whether the rapporteur thinks that we should have cities completely without trees. I can say, then, if the rapporteur does not already know that Berlin has been working for a long time to get more nature into the city, and the temperature has been lowered by two degrees, which in many ways is really good and a cheap solution in terms of using air conditioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135747	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for illustrating the blasphemy and populism of the Free Greens and those parties that share the same views. Because I specifically said in my speech that we are going to the cities to serve the people who live there. That's why it's not that I don't want trees in the cities that I want; but it's about when, for example, when... The Green Group in the European Parliament has tabled a motion for a resolution saying that if you want to build old industrial areas, there must be at least 10%. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So these are some areas which cannot be used for people to live there, nor can you make parks that are suitable for people to play football etc., and then you have to have some other areas cleared where you can have a football field, because on the 10%. there must be no football field; there must be only wild nature. This means that fewer people can live on those lands, and that means that these people will have to live outside the cities, where they turn 12 times as much and take 12 times as much space from nature as if they lived inside the city in some floor construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135846	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135848	I would just like to know very briefly whether the rapporteur would like to see a 100 per cent level of settlement. on all new land on which to build.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135857	Yes, and then Mrs Susanne Zimmer continues again with plat and populism. I mean, the level of settlement when you live in a floor, you get more than 100 percent, and yet you have green areas next door. So yes, of course I will have settlements of over 100 percent, because with floor construction it leaves room for plenty of green areas. But again you take your starting point in such a rhetorical accusing question: Do I really not want any nature in the city, I don't want any greenness in the city at all, do I not want recreational areas in the city at all? And that's what I want!
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135934	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201135937	Thank you. Now I do not know whether the rapporteur noticed that the Enhedslisten could not support this motion for a resolution. It was so primarily because of the funding. However, the debate that the rapporteur is raising is precisely that about how we use the area in Denmark. Well, what are we gonna have? And if it's about the consumption of square meters, you could say that the square meters load at e.g. public housing is much smaller than it is in relation to parcel house construction. So that might well be an argument for us to have some more non-profit housing, as Enhedslisten also argues, also in the Copenhagen area. It is not because we do not want one to have the opportunity to live in Copenhagen and get a cheap accommodation on the contrary, but it is of course the consideration that there must also be the possibility of nature. We also have the same challenge in the province. Now I come from Hjørring myself, and where we are most pressured in relation to nature is in relation to the agricultural area. The rapporteur then agrees that there is a larger part of the agricultural area which should then also be allocated to nature, so that we can ensure that there is room for both people and nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140037	I agree that we in Denmark must make an effort to buy up land which is of little value as farmland and allocate it to nature instead of funds and whatever else we may have. I think that's a good idea. But it's a joke when Mr. Kim... Peder Hvelplund says it's about parcel house building or about general housing. Inside the city it's about floor construction and floor construction. In other words, it is not the case if you decide that there should be no general housing in Copenhagen, that there should then be parcel houses in Copenhagen instead. No, there is, after all, because you allow a high percentage of housing, floor construction, which is then just not general floor construction, but is private floor construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140123	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140124	Now it is possible that in the Liberal Alliance people are suffering from Copenhagen and therefore cannot see beyond cities and beyond Copenhagen. But when you talk about cities with, for example, cities with... More than 10,000 inhabitants, for they are cities such as Hjørring, Brønderslev, Aabenraa, Ringkøbing; for they are cities in the province. And I should just like to say that we are not talking about high-level building at all, but we are talking about how we ensure that we in cities also have room for nature on many of the areas that already exist, and that is a perfectly natural approach to it. And then there is a specific problem in relation to Copenhagen, but this is about how we create more nature and more access to free nature for people who also live in cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140203	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140205	But the problem we have about the major cities in Denmark is that there are some, including myself and the Liberal Alliance and also a number of other parties who would like to use vacant land to build housing inside Copenhagen. This makes room for a lot of people to live there, instead of living outside Copenhagen or outside Aarhus or outside Aalborg, where they will fill more. On the other hand, we have Enhedslisten, who says no, no, no to more construction inside Copenhagen, because we should rather have a vacant site or an old industrial area with some cheap buildings where paint peels off and where there can be some creative industries, instead of building more homes. And that is the discussion that actually is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140240	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140242	Thank you. I have now noticed that the rapporteur's party is one of the parties in favour of natural parks, and thank you for that. I have a little experience that we are discussing how much nature should be in the cities, and I also hear that the rapporteur would like to have parks, would like to have green areas in the cities. There are some who want a little more; there are many of those who live in the cities who want a little more nature close to them. Can we not discuss whether it would be a good idea with a little more nature because there are some parties whose supporters thrive in more nature than just saying that it is only voice fishing and manipulation? I guess it's allowed to feel like this and say, "I think my town should be a little greener than it is."
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140333	It is certainly allowed and it is also allowed to think that a park should be more wild nature than it should be a mown lawn • clear. I just think that we have to decide that the city is being built so that it can accommodate a lot of people, and these people also need to be facilitated by green spaces and recreational areas. It is one objective, and in the aim is also that the city can help create more space for nature, because it absorbs a lot of people who can live there on top of each other, so that people do not have to live outside the city where they will live in single-family houses and occupy 12 times as much space. I do not believe that parties such as the Free Greens and the Enhedslisten have had that angle, nor do I think that the alternative has had that angle in the past when you have said no to more housing in Copenhagen. The housing in Copenhagen or in Aarhus, or similar places where you say no to it, can help create real space, space enough for nature where nature can be and fill, namely outside the city.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140440	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140441	I am thinking of what is really wrong with people moving out of the cities. It doesn't always have to limit nature. 60% of Denmark is covered by agricultural land. Could you not imagine converting some of those lands into settlements simply?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140457	Yes, but what we are seeing at the moment is that there is a search towards the cities, and we should actually welcome that because when the population growth that is in Denmark moves towards the cities, people will live in a place where they do not fill very much. This is something that people want to do, and we can only welcome it instead of saying: No, we should not build any more inside the cities, because then there is no old landfill where some flowers can grow. No, it is good that they come in, and we can instead have more space in the countryside for real nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140534	Then we can thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. There was a bit of a mess with the rapporteur before, but now it's Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140541	Thank you for that, President. I'll be brief. Our rapporteur could not be here, but I must say that we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140551	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140603	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Free Greens for a cornucopia of good green nature measures for cities with over 10,000 inhabitants. When I sat and prepared myself, I closed my eyes and thought that if all of this was introduced in 10 or 20 years' time, it should just grow up I just think it would be a markedly different experience to drive into our cities, go inside our cities or go into our cities. I think it would be some green jungles filled with biodiversity, and I think it would pee out with nature all sorts of places where you do not see it coming today. Honestly, it was really, really nice to imagine. And that's how I hope it's gonna be. When I think a little more about implementing the whole proposal, I wonder whether we can do it all in all cities. I think it might be exciting if, when you make such a proposal here, you might take some municipalities on board and it could be from many parts of the country and let them contribute to the development of strategies: what could the objective be? What ideas could there be? Could you make a catalogue of it and say that cities must be greener? I would like to help legislate on this. But how can you make some components so that they could choose what suits their municipality? Either way, I think there are a lot of good elements in this. There's this 300 m to the nearest green area; it would be wonderful. It works in some places, but it would be great to have it everywhere. There it is with a strategy for the conservation of old trees; I think that is incredibly important. There are many of the old large trees that stand in private areas. They're not protected, but they're actually in danger of being cut down. And there is the fact that biodiversity is part of climate protection; I think that is a good proposal too. I think there are many good proposals, each of which could almost contain a motion for a resolution in itself. But I simply do not know whether you can put down the whole package and all the other good things in the motion for a resolution on all cities in Denmark that have more than 10,000 inhabitants. We would like to take part in the work of the committee in looking at whether there are any parts that it is realistic to introduce immediately. There are also some parts that I think we should drop. I don't believe the whole gardening thing in every city. I think it is expensive and I do not know if it is so appropriate. On the other hand, we should very much work together to preserve the old trees. It would also have made it a little easier if there had been some applause for the initiatives, when a global budget was to be created, as well as some proposals for funding. It's not like it's so expensive. But that makes it easier, when it is such good ideas, to have a sense of how it should be financed. As the Free Greens also mention in their comments, the European Union has a biodiversity strategy. It is then with a goal that cities with at least 20,000 inhabitants should be greener. I understand that the Greens want a more ambitious plan. Unfortunately, here in Denmark we can have problems just meeting the EU plan, so if this resolution had stated that the government should find a good implementation model for the plan that is at least there, it would have been to vote in favour right away, at least for us. However, we are happy to continue working in committee to see whether some of these elements of this proposal can be implemented immediately, or to write a report that might encourage the government to implement parts of or the entire EU biodiversity strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140957	There is a brief comment on Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201140958	Thank you to the rapporteur for the alternative for good feedback. I can only welcome the fact that the rapporteur will be working on this in committee so that some of it can go beyond the steppes. In relation to a city gardener, I think that most cities have some kind of gardener that stands for the green, and then it is a matter of perhaps putting in another thinking, in relation to what you do in the green areas. But thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201141028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201141029	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201141033	Thank you. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201141050	I welcome the debate we have had today, and there have actually been some nuances in relation to nature. Of course, the Greens have put forward this proposal because we know that nature is cramped and needs more space and because there is more decline than there is progress. Of course, we would very much like to look at our land in the open landscape, that is, the lands of the state, the lands of the church, private forests and agriculture, in order to make much more of it, because that is where the large areas are. But we also need to look at the cities and, with what we are doing now, we lack the overall strategy. It is so that in 2018 7.3% was spent. of our area covered by cities or buildings, so this is not a very small area we are talking about. For many reasons, therefore, we must help nature inside the cities. Of course, it is primarily in terms of biodiversity. We need some plants and some green areas that are known for animals, insects and all those little creeps we have so they can live and feed animals further up the food chain. But it is also in relation to climate change adaptation. You can lower the temperature by having very green in the areas that can absorb CO2 It is of course also important. But as some have also mentioned, it is also a matter of well-being. Well, we need to be able to walk in a town where there are green areas, flowers and a little wildness, and where you can still be as a human being and settle down between the flowers. Right now we're working on a 10-year psychiatry trade plan, and we need to prevent those ills that we get, that is mental non-trivular. So cities need to get something green in. That's a lot of side benefits. The majority of negative feedback has come from the parties, but fortunately there are also some who are interested in working on it in committee. In this situation where nature is so cramped, it is better to take small steps than no steps. And I do not think that the steps already taken are large enough. And it has happened again in many of the rapporteurs that there is very good inspiration in this motion for a resolution and in the comments, and that is really good. Most of the things are in fact also meant as inspiration, because we are saying that we must have a goal, and then the city must find out for itself how to find this degree of greenery and how to make it to suit the municipal council, the population, the nature and the environment you have. So I am glad that there are many who recognise that there is good inspiration in this and that there is a need to rethink parks so that it does not become such a barren unit with monoculture with one kind of grass, but goes to become something with more biodiversity in it. I also think that the proposal to get an education in what nature is could be very good. This came from the rapporteur from DF. But how to do it then, I think is an important thing to address. Because the greater our understanding is for nature, the better we can take care of it. That is also why it is so important to get nature into the cities. Then all those people who do not actually come out into the wild every day outside the cities can see it inside the cities and see that it is something to be appreciated and protected, and perhaps at home in your own garden you can also make better conditions. I also think that there are positive indications that we should have some national objectives. So I think that's really nice too. Of course, making a pool to get this implemented around the cities, we would really like to agree to continue working on it, so that we get a look at it in the Finance Act. And then I think that we should look at all the towns and municipalities that have already tackled this and have done so on their own initiative, to the great satisfaction of the citizens. The last remark, which I thought was very nice, was from the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, namely that nature was here before us. It is we who have pushed nature out and now it needs us to do something to help it back on the tracks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201141536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Since no one has asked to speak further, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201141554	The debate is open. Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201141612	Thank you so much. The resolution we are debating today has, of course, been tabled by our good colleagues in the Conservative People's Party, and I would like to start by saying quite clearly that we, as a government, fully agree with the intention of the resolution: it must never be worth breaking the law, and that is why we will also help to ensure that we strike down those companies that grossly mislead consumers into concluding an agreement. Unfortunately, however, we cannot agree with the motion for a resolution in its entirety. The resolution is about reducing the fraud and misleading of consumers in switching electricity companies, and in the resolution the Conservative People's Party then wants to impose on the government a genuine legislative proposal aimed at these misleading and subservient electricity sellers so that they are prevented from carrying out a change of supplier without the consumer's knowledge and the consumer's willingness to change it. As I said, I would like to stress that the government fully agrees with the intention, in its very intention, with the draft law: it must never be worth breaking the law. And that is why we want to ensure that we strike down hard on those companies that grossly mislead consumers into entering into an agreement so that we do not see any more of the totally unacceptable cases such as those dealt with by the consumer ombudsman in this area. That is also why, as early as autumn 2021, we have already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. In the Marketing Act, we have introduced a new model of fines so that the serious and systematic infringements are now being punished much harder, and this is a change which has come into force here on 1 January this year. In addition, a reference to section 279 of the Criminal Code, which deals with fraud, was also inserted in the amendment to the law. In this way, it is clear that the offence must be punished after the fraud order, if the infringement of the Marketing Act at the same time constitutes an infringement of Article 279 of the Criminal Code. In addition to that, we have added 7 million to the Consumer Ombudsman's budget for 2022. kr. annual, including: We must go to the fight against greenwashing and to the general strengthening of supervision, for example. the enforcement of the new fine model, which I have just mentioned. Because I really do not think I can repeat it enough, even here today: it must not be worth breaking the law. Then the question is whether the measures that have now been taken are sufficient and whether we are doing enough. Right now, it seems that we need to look even more closely at the issue, and I think that we owe it to the consumer to do so, and that is why I have asked the Ministry of Industry to investigate whether we can introduce prison sentences for serious and systematic violations of the rules of the Marketing Act, and work is being done on this matter with the Ministry of Justice in these months. And in order to ensure that all opportunities are sought out, we from the Ministry of Business and Industry, together with the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, will also examine how consumer protection can be strengthened in the regulation of the electricity market itself, and this is a work we are now setting in motion. I will return to colleagues here in the Folketing when we have the conclusions from that work in place. The consumer ombudsman has for some time already had a great deal of focus on this area, and I would really like to highlight the great effort she is making in enforcing the rules, especially in relation to the many cases that exist in the energy sector. So we are in full swing with various measures, various studies, and that is why it is also our assessment as a government that the resolution as a whole is not something that we can support and we recommend that it be rejected. Because although the intention behind the proposal is exactly the right one, and there I would like to sign up to the Conservative rapporteur, Mona Juul, who is the proposer, and although the government agrees very much that we should get rid of the fraud, the problem is that the proposal here does not solve the problem. For the part of the proposal relating to the entire area of the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, I can state for the proceedings that an electricity trading company must be registered as a user of the Datahub in order to carry out its tasks under the Electricity Act. The exclusion from access to Datahub means that the electricity trading company cannot continue its operation and therefore cannot be able to serve its customers. In this case, the existing customers of the electricity trading company will be transferred to other electricity trading companies. This means, of course, that the proposal will mean that the individual electricity company will be forced to shut down simply by accusations of fraud, and it will be a breach of legal certainty for the individual company, because, as you know, it is the case in Denmark that one is not guilty until one is convicted, and a forced closure that happens on the charge alone is simply shooting grey sparrows with cannons. I should also like to welcome the Minister for Justice, who emphasizes this, and now I repeat the message from it: today there is a ban on traders making telephone calls to consumers if the consumer has not requested it. There are some exceptions to this, but electricity companies are not covered by these exceptions. If the consumer makes a promise during a conversation covered by the ban, then the promise will not be binding on the consumer. Furthermore, the infringement of the prohibition may be punishable by a fine. To sum up briefly all this: the first part of the motion for a resolution turns both up and down on an absolutely fundamental principle of the rule of law, and we must, for natural reasons, pay close attention to this, and the second part of the motion calls for illegal practices that are already illegal. This is the brief interpretation of the two reproductions I have just brought here. That is why we, on the part of the government, believe that the way forward is far greater fines, that it is a strengthened supervision by the Consumer Ombudsman and, possibly, as I say, and we are examining this now, prison sentences when people have actually been convicted. And to ensure that we get around this issue widely, we from the Ministry of Business and Industry will also, in cooperation with the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply, examine how to strengthen consumer protection in the regulation that is in the electricity market, and this is, as I said, a work that is being started now. So we agree with the intention, we have to take care of consumers, but we have to do so in a different way from the one proposed in the resolution, which is why the government cannot support the resolution. However, we would welcome a debate on the matter in committee with a view to reconciling our intentions and our intentions so that we do not shoot grey sparrows with guns, but shoot them with the weapon to be shot with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142413	There is a brief comment on Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142417	Thank you. And thank you for the announcement by the Minister for Industry and Industry. I am very pleased about that. After all, this motion for a resolution says: "The government is required to put forward a legislative proposal before 15 October 2022 aimed at misleading and subservient electricity sellers so that they are prevented from carrying out a change of supplier without the consumer's knowledge and will. The bill must be designed in dialogue with the industry. Then it says what the bill may contain as the one solution, and there will also be an example later on, and I have, of course, got into the resolution because I think I have tried to ask some questions, I have tried to push on, I have listened to the Consumer Ombudsman, and I have listened to the Consumer Council Thinking, and then I thought that I would not just make a resolution that says that we should impose a bill on the government without trying to throw some ideas into the field that the industry also has. Then I fully agree that it is not just possible to start changing the case law, but it could be that one could be inspired by it and perhaps the Minister has already been a little inspired by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142520	But I am always inspired when Mrs Mona Juul takes the floor, and also when she writes proposals. I just think I have to point out, when such things are mentioned in the resolution, that there are some challenges with it. I think the right way here is to go about this: we agree with the intention; there are some consumers who are squeezed; the way they are treated is totally unacceptable; let us find the right weapons from the weapons cabinet to solve it so that we do not shoot grey sparrows with guns. I think we should continue to work in committee and see if we can get a good report text written, so that we, together with the industry, think that is a good idea too. I think that we will have a look at whether we can get the right measures in place and preferably by 15 October. It's fine for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142603	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142605	Thank you. Yes, because it can be said that the desperation of the worthwhile companies is quite great. That's why they're proposing this one thing. And this is also due to the fact that the Minister has not been interested in the second proposal that is in it. At one point, the Minister answers: I do not want to make commercial practices more difficult for the many companies that comply with the rules when they are based on oral consent. That is quite understandable, but the Minister does not necessarily always take that into account, and here there is an industry that is actually begging for help to make a change.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142640	I have the quite basic principle that for all the many companies in this lovely country, which plays completely according to the book, which is in order in the pencil house, everyday life must be easy and straightforward. And then, in return for making that everyday life easy and straightforward, we have to be after those who break the rules and do not play by them. That is why I am also open to finding a solution to this issue, and I think that we should do this together politically in the Folketing through the committee work and also involve the industry in it. In relation to whether it should become a law that is a very large weapon or that other initiatives can be used, we must take on that work. I am actually doing a very open mind because as far as intention is concerned, I just agree with the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142722	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142723	Thank you. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister agrees with the intentions. I can already tell you that we are also in the Left, just so that it doesn't come as the big surprise. I can hear that the Minister has started various studies, and that is why I would like to hear whether the Minister will reveal when those studies and what else were to be completed, firstly, and secondly, whether it will subsequently be the case that we parties will be invited to discuss what will happen next. So point 1: When are the investigations done? And paragraph 2: Will we then be invited in afterwards to a meeting where we can like discuss it here, because there is a real problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142814	We expect that we will be able to finish the studies by mid-year. In other words, they are set in motion, and it should not be the greatest complex to have to go through, but, speaking of legal certainty and other things, it should also be done properly. So we expect in the middle of this year to be able to complete the studies. Then I think the most natural thing in the world would be to engage in a good dialogue, as we are used to doing in the Committee on Industry and with each other in the circle of rapporteurs here, and to find out with those parties who might be behind a report what it is then necessary to do to solve the problem. We agree that there is a problem here. That is the Left, and so is the government, and that is a good starting point, and then we will find the measures that need to be taken. It is not certain that this is legislation. Maybe it's something else. It doesn't really matter as long as we help the consumers who get stuck and we help the companies who just play completely by the book and get squeezed off if someone doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142909	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142910	So just to be sure that I have understood the Minister quite correctly, I would say that I assume that all this research work and so on. is finished, let's say by October, for it is at least more than the middle of this year, and that we saw subsequently those who join a report if one can agree on it will be invited in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142937	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201142940	Thank you. First of all, I don't understand what people have against shooting gray sparrows with guns. I think there is something poetic and beautiful in it on many levels. I don't understand why everyone doesn't mind. It could look very good. Anyway, I will turn to what I am going to ask, because I know that the Minister has also read these far more complaints that have come to the Consumer Ombudsman about these things. In other words, one is the interface between what to do with legislation in here and what the industry itself can do, for example. information. Something else is whether there could be some self-righteousness in this as well. Because we also hear from the industry that this is not good enough and that you have a few bad apples in the basket. So maybe something could be done until an analysis work is done. Because I agree that it is fine for work to start, but what can be done in the six months on which it stands to ensure that no consumers are cheated out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143038	Well, that was a new voice. I would like to start by saying that it is now not a pretty sight to shoot grey sparrows with guns. I do not think that picture is appropriate to illustrate the way we should work as legislators and as parliamentarians. Well, of course there are things you can do in the industry, but I am also trying to explain here that today it is the case that if you are going to make a promise as a consumer in a phone call that is illegally implemented, then that promise does not actually count. You have to know that. But if you don't know, the deal goes on. There, of course, we have an information work which I think the industry can also help to lift, so that, as a consumer, you know whether you are in a situation where you are trapped or actually can get free again. So I think the wise thing here is: let's see if we can make a report text; let's get the process started.The studies are started now.Let's get the industry on board in this, and then let's see what it's going to be of more precise actions that we can launch, hopefully jointly, later this year. Because I don't really hear any of us being uninterested in solving this problem. It is only a question of not sacking legal certainty, which I think the motion for a resolution is going to put forward, and then finding the right weapons in the weapons cabinet, as I have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143155	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143156	It almost sounds like we're going hunting. But I fully agree with that. One of the problems that can sometimes be is that it only dawns on customers that they have been caught in this when the first bill comes. So there they are out of it, but what about the bill they paid? It's just to shoot ideas into what could be in that work. Otherwise, people often say: No, it just doesn't pay for me to say that I don't want to get my money back anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143239	First, I want to say I love hunting. But you have to choose the right weapon when you go hunting. In other words, the bill that consumers may have should not be paid because there is no valid agreement, as in the case that has been mentioned here. But you have to know that as a consumer; otherwise you get caught up in it. And that is why I am thinking that this case is very serious both for the consumers who are affected, but also for the companies who are not doing these numbers. And that's why we have an obligation to solve this. And I just think we should do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143310	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no more brief comments. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Orla Sea. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143321	Thank you for that, President. The general view of the work of the Folketing is that we are arguing, counter-arguing or demeaning each other. I would like to take that view here today's motion for a resolution, however, not with guns. In fact, I would like to pay tribute to the Conservative People's Party for highlighting a major problem which many citizens are involuntarily thrown into on a loose and undocumented basis. We know the inspiring voice that seeks to sell electricity from a new electricity supplier to the citizen who has been called. A very understanding, yes, almost intimidating style pulls the potential customer into a web reminiscent of the Promised Land: cheaper electricity, money back or perhaps the prospect of a gift. It sounds almost too good to be true, and it is also true, but the potential customer may not know and may not have the full overview of the electricity suppliers' product range, nor own consumption and price structure and liability compared to the previous supplier. It can be a young person with a tight economy, a new citizen with a tight economy, or an older citizen whose economy could well deserve a few dollars saved on fixed costs. Yeah, and think, there aren't any good promises. A growing number of cases are being witnessed by the Consumer Ombudsman, as has already been mentioned. The Danish Parliament, together with the government, has sought to improve consumer protection by tightening up the Marketing Act. The change is not so old yet that we have the great basis of experience and it is tempting to put new tools in the toolbox against misleading consumers. On the part of the Social Democrats, we are in favour of finding a common line with better consumer protection. We come to the committee's examination of B 61 with an open mind in order to arrive at a text of the report which will take account of the intentions, intentions and objectives of B 61 within the framework that we know and which has been discussed between the rapporteur and the Minister a moment ago. So this is where our good will is exhibited.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143607	In other words, if you listen to the rapporteur, he is not as accommodating as the Minister was with his interpretation of it. There may of course be different positions in parties, but I think it is essential that we come up with a report here which is not just a few words but which will clarify some tightening up if that is what is needed. I really think the rapporteur should say that to the Minister, so you are equally positive about this. The reason I'm saying this and it might be a little unconventional is that I'm not sure I'm here when it's my turn in the rapporteur's line. That is why I would like to say it now, as I would have said, if I could make it when it was my turn. And it's just that the proposer also knows that Enhedslisten is positive about the intentions of this proposal. This is particularly serious because it is both electricity and gas prices that are soaring now, and in this way it is something that threatens the safety of many citizens in everyday life. Can you afford to stay where you live? Will the gas be shut down? Will the power be shut down? That is why I really think we should work quickly in committee, and that is why I think that part of the rapporteur's speech is positive, namely that something should be done in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143714	All I have to say is quietly that I think we should hear extremely wrong, in relation to what the Minister has said and I have said, in order to be able to drive a piece of A4 paper between our positions on this. We are in favour of finding a solution to this. But it is clear that we must also use it, that we have put in place some initiatives to tighten up the marketing law and give some more money for the work to ensure that the consumer ombudsman can do better. We must, of course, include this in the further work. We have no interest in delay, nor do we have any interest in preventing the rapporteur from making his speech earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143756	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143759	At least I am pleased with the goodwill with regard to the dialogue. I also think that what we have set out in the Finance Act, against greenwashing and to strengthen the Consumer Ombudsman is something that is good. It could be a useful tool. It could be something that could give a real tightening up, couldn't it? But if there is something that we have not included in that resolution, I think it would be a good thing for the committee to identify where it is that can be further tightened. For there are certainly citizens out there who feel very threatened on their daily lives with the rising energy prices that are at the moment. So I look forward to us reaching some kind of agreement on a report on a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143834	Well, there is no doubt that current energy prices are intensifying the discussion on this subject, no doubt about it. Nevertheless, many of the reactions I have received from ordinary citizens who have had such a salesman on the phone are the insult that you feel you are being exposed to and then it turns out that it is only an attempt to cheat the consumer. No one can have an interest in that. So we come up with an open mind to find a sensible report text that will speed things up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143906	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and this is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201143921	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by commending the Conservatives for raising this important issue. Because the challenge of misleading electricity customers is steadily increasing and we must expect it to get even worse as rising electricity prices will cause more consumers to consider whether to change electricity companies. I know that we cannot guard against false information, but there is something wrong when telephone sellers and electricity companies can move people into another electricity company against their will without the bank or the authorities stopping it. However, it is important that it is easy for consumers to switch electricity companies, because it ensures competition in the electricity market, and fortunately most companies comply with the law when they turn to new customers. However, as the motion for a resolution also shows, there are a number of points of interest that we politicians should discuss with, among others. the industry. These include, for example, situations in which customers are signed up to PBS agreements without having asked for it. I am well aware that as a customer I am not bound by an electricity agreement unless I have given my consent, and I am also well aware that there is a ban on unsolicited telephone calls and that it is the bank's job to return an unauthorized payment. But it doesn't really matter if the money's been drawn, and I've been registered to a new power company. Although the contract law has been tightened, it does not seem that it has had the desired effect in relation to illegal switching of power companies, which is why we need to react. Having said that, I wonder whether the resolution hits 100%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of this report, but we do see very good tactics in the motion for a resolution, which is why we look forward to participating constructively in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201144114	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and this is Hans Kristian Skibby. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201144134	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Conservative People's Party for the resolution we are debating here today in the Danish Parliament. After all, this is an issue which I believe and suppose Mrs Mona Juul has found occasion to go into a little through some of the approaches that many of us rapporteurs have so regularly received from people who have been misled and in squeezed, yes, as victims, I had almost said in some form of dispute, where some have tried to run off a bill on others or at least to push customers into their own companies rather than where they were before. It is clear that when you are in an area such as the free choice of electricity supply, this is an area in which, in recent years, when this market has been liberalised quite seriously, we have been able to see that creativity has flourished. In the Danish People's Party we are happy with it when there are creative entrepreneurs in Denmark, and we also think it is great when they can have new customers. What is just the question is what way to get customers and what kind of conditions and working methods are used. There we have seen and had a clear experience that there has been some kind of wild west state in many places in the energy sector compared to cutting customers apart. Well, they can stand down in Bilka, in the entrance you probably all know it and they can call you; there is no limit to what they have to offer. And there it is important that we have some consumer mechanisms that are important that we have consumer protection, and it is also important that it works. In my best judgment, things are not working properly today. We're actually seeing a lot of people getting stuck in these disputes. The Conservative People's Party also refers, in its motivation, in its comments on this proposal, to the fact that over 18 months have passed over 1,200 inquiries to the Consumer Ombudsman, that is to say, complaints where people feel misled and are directly exposed to financial fraud. It is people who call as telesellers and pretend to be from companies other than their own; for example, they pretend to be from companies other than their own. in order to be from the company which currently has the person concerned, the contacts as a customer. And there are also some who pretend to be someone else by saying: You need some money back, so we can't just get your account number and your cpr number, and then you'll just see that there's some money coming for you. What are the reprisals, and what are the sanctions? Unfortunately, they are a little difficult to see a proper administration of, and we think that too many of these customers feel that they are being lost; that justice is simply not being enforced. And we in the Danish People's Party think this is unhealthy. In fact, we think it is important that we get to grips with these types of companies. So we welcome the proposal from the Conservatives. Of course, we have a small appeal. Mrs Mona Juul herself now also mentioned what the proposal, for example, is about. could contain. But I am a little concerned about the fact that the reprisals have to be made, only in the case of a police report; we also think that we should look at whether there is a judgment, a final decision before starting on that part of it. However, I also read it clearly as if it is one of the sanctions that might be envisaged in a new and more sanctioning legislation. Then there is one thing that I may not see so much in the proposal itself, but I just think that when we are in the process, there are also some people who see these companies changing their names. There are a lot of energy companies, and I fully agree that some people have the infrastructure to supply the energy supply, and that others will then be able to drive the power through the lines, and then there will be a lot of creative, typically English-speaking companies called something really international, and it sounds really nice, and they have some great brochures and some great websites. But I also think we could ask the question: what is it about all these companies that arise and which are then suddenly called something else afterwards? It could clearly also be interesting to get that part of it clarified, because it is not funny that we have customers in Denmark who think that they have made a supplier agreement with a company, and then suddenly the company is called something completely different, and then you really don't know where you are a customer. It is, of course, just one schism in relation to the consumer guidance and deception that we are experiencing today. The Danish People's Party believes that we should go ahead with this, and we fully agree that it may not end in this form, but if the conclusion may be that the Minister of Business will take it on board and that there will also be these studies, conclusions and recommendations, then we are well on our way. However, we are largely in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201144649	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201144659	Thank you. Electricity and gas and heat and all these things are absolutely fundamental to all of us. We can't heat up our homes or make anything work if we don't. That is one of the most fundamental things. And that is also why, right now, we are seeing a great many people getting into trouble because of the very high prices, and that is also why we are sitting somewhere else trying to negotiate some aid packages in place. But it is really just to say a little about how crucial this is in people's lives, and that is why I would also like to say a great deal of thanks to Mrs Mona Juul and Conservatives for lifting this area. For some of what is most despicable is to try to defraud and deceive people in relation to something that is crucial to their life and well-being, that is, to fake with love. Many of us have probably experienced being stopped on the street or in a mall or in a store where you are buying something completely different and being lured by the fact that if you change company, you can get a discount or something else. So it's a pretty aggressive behavior that we see in many places, and that's why I think it's good that Conservatives are lifting this agenda. I have some of the same concerns as the Minister for Business with regard to the tools being proposed, because if you de facto shut down a company by taking those steps, that is going too far. But as I hear Mrs Mona Juul, these are just examples of something that could be done; that is, the most important thing is that we tighten up. Well, we've tightened the Marketing Act a lot, but like Mr. Knox... Hans Kristian Skibby, I think we also need to take some extra steps towards what Mrs Mona Juul is proposing. That is why I really hope, when the Minister of Industry seems so willing to take some extra steps and say that we need to see where we can tighten up consumer protection. That is how I heard the Minister of Industry, also in relation to seeing whether there is going to be extra resources for the Consumer Ombudsman to pursue this area and whether we need to change the legislation, so that there is a greater possibility of giving a prison sentence or higher fines that this is the way we should go. I think so. I would like us to tighten the deadline on Conservatives' proposals, because there are many people who get into trouble with this, in the autumn if there were to be a bill, it would be. I think we can say in the parties of the Folketing: should we not try to promise consumers that we have something in place before the summer break? I think it would be very good to also say at the same time that when we send more tasks towards the Consumer Ombudsman, there is also some money going with it. Because this is just an area where all the good powers are needed to ensure that consumers are safe. I hope that Conservatives will also look favourably on these proposals, i.e. that this is the way we are going. In any case, I think it would be a pretty good result of having tabled this motion for a resolution........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So I would think it was a pretty good result if we tightened up this area on the basis of the proposal. So I hope that Mrs Mona Juul understands that I think it is better to go that way than to vote in favour of the resolution today. But that also means that the Minister, as I also hear him, must commit himself to making some tightenings in this area. I actually heard the Minister's speech that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201145107	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Abbas Razvi.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201145120	Thank you for the floor. As our business rapporteur cannot be in the Chamber today, I am speaking here at first reading instead. This is my second rapporteur's speech, although this is the first time I have spoken in this House. I had the pleasure of my first speech, my maiden speech, in 2007, when I was also my first alternate. That said, you know what you're dealing with. The motion for a resolution seems to us to be a welcome opportunity to discuss the gaps in our legislation when it comes to misleading electricity suppliers. There are really serious examples of not only deception but also outright cheating and lies. We in the Radical Left would very much like to help put an end to this. Under the current government, steps have been taken in the right direction, which we in Radicals welcome, but that does not exclude the need for further action. The motion for a resolution proposes that the government be required to put forward a legislative proposal to prevent misleading electricity suppliers from carrying out a change of supplier without the consumer's knowledge and will. We can fully support the intention behind the resolution, but we have doubts about the tools to be used, and the Minister also mentioned this. At the same time, we believe that it would be good if we were given the opportunity to discuss different options or different legislative proposals, so that we have the opportunity to jointly find the best tools and not just be presented with one bill from the government without us being in the process up to. For Radicals, it is important that we get around the problem properly and look at both possible steps for the entry into being a supplier of electricity, on sanctions and on opportunities in between. I think we can do this best together and in close dialogue with the industry. That is why the Radicals' proposal will be that the government be required to convene negotiations for action. This may well be additional legislation, but it may also be other. At the same time, it is our view that there is broad support for the matter and the objective, and that is why we should now see whether we in the Danish Parliament, together with the industry, can agree on how best to solve the problem. Having said that, I would also like to add that it does not prevent us from looking, like looking at what we can do to ensure that consumers are better protected, and there was the Minister talking about better information and other measures that can give them an additional awareness of their rights so that they are not cheated by some smart marketing people. Those were the words from here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201145502	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201145513	Thank you. Well, a lot has happened in the energy sector since the liberalisation of the electricity law in 1999, and for us it is very significant that consumers are therefore more important than smart electricity dealers. Enhedslisten is in line with the Conservatives in this case. Electricity supply is a competitive area now, and especially now that electricity prices are running off, there will be an increased risk of consumers being contacted by platters promising tempting discounts in the electricity bill, and this can affect both industry and citizens. We have previously adopted amendments to the Marketing Act which significantly increased the fines for misleading marketing, but there is nothing to prevent us from further tightening the rules. We read the motion for a resolution in such a way that it is not super concrete, as it were, that stands in several places, so we will not shoot down the motion for a resolution on it. In other words, we will be looking more for a majority behind a report that could tighten things up. Now the motion for a resolution proposes that the government be required to make a legislative proposal. It could also be that existing regulations could be tightened up, and it is a much faster process that can then be, in order to arrive at something that is increased consumer protection. So we would like to have uncovered in a committee procedure whether tightening up notices could be something that can resolve it. We would also like to know whether there are also smart gas sellers who are trying to exploit the situation with high gas prices. The motion for a resolution deals with what to say, electric salesmen, but if we also have a problem with gas sellers, I think we should also bring it to light through a committee procedure. I think it is very good that in the Finance Act we have had extra money allocated to the Consumer Ombudsman to be able to go against something greenwashing. It's part of this, too. There may also be some electricity sellers who contact consumers and say: we have something that is greener, so that it is not only the price that you compete on, but also other things. We think it is more important to maintain legal certainty while at the same time ensuring that consumer protection is absolutely optimal, and if there is something that we can come up with in committee we can tighten up on, Enhedslisten is positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201145741	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201145749	This proposal is about electricity and electricity sales. Yes, and then it is also a bit about electricity taxes, because I do not think I will let the opportunity to talk about the crazy prices we have on our electricity get lost, and funny enough we actually produce quite cheap electricity in Denmark, but yet, after the tax has just been around the Parliament hall and has gone out again, electricity vupti has been expensive and we are one of the countries in Europe that has the most expensive electricity. I looked at my own electricity bill quite randomly, and I could see that approx. half of the electricity bill was simply tax and VAT. It is a tax on something that every citizen out there needs. Why is it that there has to be such a massive tax on something that we know all families need across income and income? It doesn't make sense. That is why we should remove the electricity tax. The specific proposal is a resolution by the Conservatives on whether we can now tighten up on these electricity companies running around out there cheating people. And that really is a sensible proposal. There is nothing worse for self-employed people than the fact that there are such tiny stingy vessels that destroy too much of an entire industry, which in fact in many areas, I must say, works well with the liberalisation that has taken place in some areas. We would like to be willing to do so. And one thing I've learned in this Parliament is that the motion for a resolution doesn't mention the things you can be kept up with. Sometimes, I have learned, you have to be careful about writing too much in the remarks, because then people start attacking the remarks instead of the motion for a resolution itself. I am learning it when I make my own motion for a resolution. All the comments began to be attacked, but I shall now deal with what the Conservative resolution says, and I think that is actually a sensible proposal in many areas. I also noticed that the rapporteur nodded when the Minister for Industry said whether or not we could sit together and find some solution to it. I think everyone in here agrees that we can. That is why we are looking forward to the further discussion of it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201150008	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201150015	Thank you. We can support the motion for a resolution. We think that it describes a problem we have in Denmark with electricity suppliers cheating potential customers along the way. We do not think that the current legislation does well enough deal with this. That is what the resolution will do about. What can then be of debate with the Minister about how to do it, etc., must take place. But our starting point for talking to the minister in committee and elsewhere is that we support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201150049	Thank you to the rapporteur. So it is time to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201150112	You will be called with the disturbing message that your power company has gone bankrupt. Cut to see everything in the freezer go to, the cell phone runs out, and the Liverpool game misses. And, of course, that's not gonna work. So you strike immediately when the friendly voice on the phone says, "We'll fix that." Cut that you've suddenly changed the power company and had an amount drawn into your account you don't recognize, and by the way you've just discovered that your power company wasn't actually You've been fooled, you feel stupid, and you don't understand how it could happen. It is, of course, fraud to fool someone, but the penalty is so mild that it pays to do business in that way and it must be stopped. It's as simple as that. That is why this is not just another motion for a resolution on one more case, to which one party is trying to raise a win case by responding. It is a proposal which has come to light only because it has not succeeded in knocking up the government, not even the Minister for Industry, who is otherwise very concerned about consumer protection. Neither the industry's examples, the Consumer Ombudsman's reports on lack of means, the Consumer Council Think of criticism or countless media stories about scammed consumers have moved anything. I wonder how much it takes. You are tempted to ask. Because in the time I've tried to knock on it, there hasn't been a prayer coming out of it. There have been a few enough well-intentioned answers, but absolutely zero calls to do anything let alone care about it, let alone no action at all. We are not going to run after individual cases and make unnecessary legislation, but we are not going to close our eyes. Apparently, current legislation is just not good enough. We do not protect consumers. We leave them on the platform, where the good companies will have to pick them up with the extra work and the extra costs it entails. We cannot be familiar with that. This isn't just a little delusional. It is a case of fraud and fraud. That is why we have allowed ourselves in the resolution to help the Minister a little on the way with a few solutions based on the dialogue I have had with the Consumer Ombudsman, the Consumer Council Think and the useful part of the electricity industry that is getting really tired of this. And there are certainly better solutions, and they should be very welcome. I just want the government to take action. The most important thing is to put an end to fraud, and that is what the proposal is about, not the concrete possible solutions, which is also clearly shown in the motion for a resolution. What helps is that the government is pleased that the Consumer Ombudsman has reported many cases when there are not enough instruments and when it is not possible to punish so that it is labelled. I fully agree that we should not make commercial practices more difficult for the many companies that comply with the rules, but I think I can say, frankly, that I am probably the last person here on Things who might dream of putting extra burdens on business, but here the industry is begging for it. That's enough because they need us. If it has not succeeded in any other way, yes, I have reacted with this resolution, because I have not been satisfied with the Minister's efforts in this area. And the answers so far have left much to be desired, and I do not really understand why. Here we can both help the proper companies and ensure consumer protection. But I am listening to the fact that the motion for a resolution has exactly the effect it should have. Thank you for the floor, thank you to the Minister, and thank you to all the parties for your statements. I very much hope that our common interest in this work of the committee will convince everyone, should there be one tiny doubt yet, that we need to tighten up the misdirection and outright fraud that plagues the law-abiding companies and, above all, the consumers who keep getting into trouble. That's enough! I actually thought in advance: who can oppose it? And fortunately, no one was. Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo, Let's just stop this. Thank you for the floor. In conclusion, I would also like to welcome the Christian Democrats and say that they support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201150507	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220201150522	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 2 February 2022, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
