ParlaMint-DK_20220510130006	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130016	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130020	Thank you. Yesterday Europe Day was marked throughout Europe, everywhere became monuments and buildings brightened up in Ukraine's colors. European cooperation is the project of peace, and the contrast with yesterday's military parades in Putin's Russia is marked. The world has changed, and that is why we ask the Danes to go to the ballot boxes on 1 June. The debate is now really taking place throughout the country. For me, this vote is basically about what kind of country we want to be. Today, Denmark is the only country out of 27 Member States which cannot fully participate in European defence and security cooperation. Should we, in a changed Europe, be able to participate fully in Europe's security and defence cooperation, or should we stand outside and leave responsibility to others? The answer seems obvious to me because the security policy situation has changed and will probably never be the same again. The conditions for our cooperation with our allies have also changed. The demands for Europe and the European Union have changed. NATO is the guarantor of our security; that is the way it is and it will always be. But we are in a new reality, and here Denmark must be involved and take responsibility. This applies both in NATO and in the European Union, just as we have already signed up to take the first steps when it comes to the reconstruction of Ukraine. In cooperation with the Danish business community, we have already sent the first machines to help with the concrete clean-up in the war-stricken cities. Everyone feels the consequences of the war, not least on the wallet. Totally new figures show that consumer prices have risen by 6.7 per cent. in April. This is the highest inflation rate in 37 years. This also means that there will be Danes who will find it increasingly difficult to make their private economy stick together because of the high energy prices and rising inflation. We can't keep everyone safe from harm from far away. The government has said this from the outset, but it is still our view that we should provide targeted help so that we can also resolve this crisis in solidarity. That is why we have proposed a lump sum of DKK 5 000. tax-free for pensioners who have the least. I have actually listened to the broad support for the idea of targeted aid for pensioners who have the least. I'd like to sign for that. I would also like to thank you for other proposals that have been made. These are proposals from a number of different parties on how to help best and most targeted. During the negotiations, another funding has been called for. We have listened to that. The government is therefore proposing that the money for targeted aid to pensioners should be found by downgrading public investment this year and next year. I hope that negotiations can continue on that basis, because fortunately the starting point is a good one. Danish economy is strong. Last year we had the highest growth in 27 years, the highest employment ever and the lowest unemployment rate in 13 years. During the corona some will remember that we had long discussions about debt. Was it responsible to hold hands under Danish economy to the extent that the government thought we should do? I think the results today speak for themselves. Public debt in Denmark is low. It is both from an international perspective, but it is also from a historical perspective, and the debt fell sharply in 2021 as the high pace of the Danish economy. Denmark is the country in the EU with the largest public surplus in 2021. That's really good work. And we are, in fact, one of the only countries in the European Union that had a surplus on public finances last year. That's good work. This does not change the continuing need for strong priorities and new reforms. The Danish economy needs to be made even stronger, and more people have to work. Therefore, after the summer break, the government presents a 2030 plan for the Danish economy, where fiscal policy is sustainable. But if we are to have a debate on economic policy, and I welcome that, it should be on an enlightened basis. Let me therefore, at the end of the day, call on the opposition to present a coherent economic policy soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130447	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then we'll start the party leader round. First there is up to 2 minutes to ask and to Prime Minister, then 2 times 1 minute. Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130500	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. I would like to move somewhere else, and I would really like to use the party leader's round today on a matter which should include all members of the Folketing somewhat more than it does, namely the charge of Claus Hjort Frederiksen for treason, a very, very serious crime which, because it is so serious, can give up to 12 years in prison. It's one of our colleagues in here who's been charged with treason... a man who's dedicated his whole life to Danish politics and to Denmark. The investigation has been completed. It's about six months since the charge was raised. The investigation has been completed; yet it is as if nothing really happens. There's a need for clarification on this case. There must be a limit to how long a member of the Folketing can have such a serious accusation hanging over his That is why we have asked the government 70 questions about this matter. We haven't gotten any smarter. We have received no reply, either from the Minister for Justice or from the Prime Minister, even though the deadline for replying has been exceeded, so I have to ask here. How has the Prime Minister been involved in the decision to charge Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen for treason?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130631	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130632	Thank you for that question. The government is generally reluctant to comment on specific cases running in our legal system, and we will be in this case as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130642	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130644	I'm not asking the PM to comment on cases that run. I ask the Prime Minister to answer how the Prime Minister has been involved in the charges against a member of the Folketing for treason. It is simply one of the most serious things in my optics that can be accused of. So how has the Prime Minister been involved in the charge that has been raised?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130713	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130714	I shall refer to the answer I have already given. The government is generally reluctant to go into specific cases. This is also true in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130722	The last question to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130724	I have to promise that the government is generally reluctant to give answers when it comes to this matter. Nevertheless, there is a broad consensus among all the people who know something about this sort of thing that, of course, the government has been informed of this; of course, the government has decided on this. It is not the case that, in a rule of law such as Denmark, we have a public authority which suddenly believes that they should press charges against a member of the Folketing. It's something the government's been through. What the government is also going to have to do is to ask whether or not to press charges. The investigation has been completed. It is simply unworthy of a rule of law to have such a thing. When does the government decide if it wishes to address Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen for treason?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130813	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130815	I am sorry that the answer will be the same. This government, like other governments, is reluctant to go into both specific personal cases, but certainly also cases that run in the Danish legal system, which is why I do not want to go into a discussion either on the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130835	Thank you. The question is over. We move on to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510130847	Thank you. As a centre-left, we have actually been leading Denmark for almost 3 years. It's been three years since we had parliamentary elections, and a lot of good has happened in Denmark. We have moved the direction in a greener and redder direction, an investment in the climate, many solutions to renewable energy, a 70-percent objective, minimum standards and investments in our common health care. In fact one can say that we have changed direction for Denmark, and I would like to sign both the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, but of course also the Prime Minister's own party that we have got Denmark back on track so much. I think we have achieved very well. But there are also things that we have not yet achieved, and I would like to mention one element that I think is particularly striking: a 10-year psychiatry plan. We have a lot of people who have a lot of pain in our lives. If you broke a leg and go to the hospital, we'll fix it. If you break the psyche, you are not in the same way secured treatment, and the longer the time goes by, the more we know it will be serious for people. There are simply people who live very poor lives in Denmark because they have a mental illness. It's both kids and adults. Those are heavy problems, and these are debilitating problems. The shop steward of the 56 psychologists in Nordjylland Region, named Maria Holmgaard Secher, says, in fact in the daily press, about his work, that it is sometimes like working at a Toyota factory. And: You stand in this pressed system, where you keep trying to do your best, but you can see that that's everything, everything, far too little. What happens is that people give extra in the shade, run even stronger and bend the rules for the patient's sake, and we do not stick to that in the long run. And patients do not benefit from burned-out personnel. That is not good enough, of course, and therefore: the more we wait, and the longer time we do not have a 10-year psychiatry plan, the more it is a huge problem. So the patience of the SF has been used up, and I would like to ask if the Prime Minister will today guarantee that the government is rubbing its nails and we will get started on a 10-year psychiatry plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131057	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131059	We have agreed with each other that we should, and we do, because we have a common interest in resolving some of the challenges in psychiatry. It has been well known for many years that if you had a physical illness, there were fewer taboos and some very established patient rights, whereas if you were hospitalized in the psychiatrist or needed some kind of offer in the field of psychiatrist, it could be harder, both because of taboos and culture, but also because of the priorities, and we have been working on this together to get some more money allocated to psychiatry. I would also like to say in this connection that I really hope that we can agree that we should have a much greater pressure and effort before the problems grow to such an extent that we need an offer in psychiatry, and I think that goes in two different directions. 1) I believe that we can prevent a great deal in civil society, in reality, so that we do not have to get into a healthcare system, and 2) we will also have to think about how we, as a society, ensure that our children and young people are robust enough to cope with life, because it is difficult to live, or at least it can be, and there is a vulnerability in our time, which is a very, very big challenge for many children and young people, but which is, of course, a social problem we have to deal with. To make a long story brief, I would like to say that we agree that we would like to have a 10-year plan for psychiatry, and we must have this done together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131227	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131228	And before the parliamentary elections, just to put it in perspective. I think that some of the problem is that we look into both loneliness and depression, anxiety, eating disorders and everything else, and I kind of agree with the Prime Minister that the sooner we can intervene, the better so that we do not actually have major problems and that people do not end up in the real psychiatry and really need beds, because that is the last resort. That is where people are, but perhaps we can avoid them getting so far into the problems. Right now we can see that there are children who have school migration or that there are children who end up at home with their parents. It is hard for the parents, and it is also hard for the children. And one of the things the SF proposed a year ago was that we changed the legislation so that instead of just helping children who are miserable, you have to help children who are miserable, so that we avoid this. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister can support the suggestion that we take the children before they get this far out and change the legislation to be taken instead of can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131330	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131332	Well, I'm willing to discuss a lot of different things, but the question is, aren't we going to go deeper? For we live, I think, at a time when many of the old natural communities are becoming fewer, and I think that many of us, myself included, have solved many problems and challenges through life and have not needed professional help, or that the system has, so to speak, started because you have been in the dressing room and have been caught, figuratively speaking, by your football team or your handball team or whoever it has been. As far as I am concerned, it was via the FDF or political youth work. Before we turn this into just a system discussion, I am also calling for a slightly more fundamental cultural discussion, because I believe that we humans can do a great deal for and with each other in the close relationships, so that we really do not need treatment at all. But natural relationships and communities are becoming fewer and fewer and fewer children are participating in them. So I would very much like to be involved in discussing prevention, but I actually think we should go deeper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131438	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131441	We are actually willing to do that in the SF, because we see it in reality as being not only bedrooms, nor is it social psychiatry in the municipalities, but that in reality it is also part of what is happening in voluntary life. Well, I don't know where I would have been today if it hadn't been for my relationship with the church for that matter. So there are a great many bodies that need to be in play, and that is really what I see in a 10-year psychiatry plan, that we are just looking at the contexts, not only at the system, but in fact also at the individual person. That is really what we are proposing for us to start negotiating now. It should not wait until after a parliamentary election, because although we have an understanding paper and have said that of course we must do the things that are in the understanding paper, my concern is genuinely that because of corona and because of many other pressing things in the Ministry of Health this has come back the longest in line, understandably. Now is just the time for us to speed up that process, and I would really like to end by asking the Prime Minister: can the Prime Minister push a little to the Minister for Health so that it will go a little faster?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131539	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131540	I have never experienced the need to push our health minister, who I think is doing a very good job. In fact, I do not agree that psychiatry has, as it were, gone in the back of the queue because of corona, but we have had to deal with many different health challenges, and we must do so in the future too. And we have the common challenge, which in many ways is a very, very great privilege, that we hardly have any unemployment in Denmark. It is 21⁄2%, and that means that we have to think about how we can improve the parts of our welfare society that we agree with and agree on, without employing a lot more staff, because they simply do not exist. This is, of course, one of our major challenges, but that is not why I am so concerned about the very early prevention. It's more because I'm concerned about how with such empowerment, the volunteer Denmark, Association Denmark, we're thinking of making us stronger as people, so that we can cope with the adversity most of us are going to experience, without having to sit down in that one gets a psychiatric disorder or has a more systemic need. Having said that, there are people who need professional help and, of course, it must be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131649	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The question is over. Then we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131658	Thank you. In fact, I think we can all feel the price increases now, and it is clear that people with less money than the average can feel it in particular. So the motivation to help the groups that the Prime Minister also mentioned, which are currently being squeezed financially due to price increases, I fully acknowledge. But I get worried when the government initially proposed to fund the aid as an unfunded check. I am concerned when we start from short-term economic solutions and run the risk of pouring more petrol on the fire. After all, I am concerned that such zeal to help can make things even worse and create expectations that we, for example, will be able to do so. never again have to save to get the ends to meet. So I start and ask this because, since the government presented the proposal for compensation to selected income groups, both the supervisor and most recently the National Bank warns that we are politically moving in a dangerous spiral, derogating from the budget law, but also increasing inflation. And I share that concern, and that is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister also shares some of the concerns raised by the National Bank and the wise man that we can risk creating even more inflation with the handout of a cheque.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131829	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510131830	Basically, I do not think there is much disagreement here. Because it can be said that, as a Social Democrat, I am resorting to the expansive financial policy, that is to say, when there is an economic crisis, yes, per year. Nature will think how I promote demand, so there are more people coming into work who can get out to spend some more money, and then we'll just get the community wheels going faster. We cannot do this in the same way when there is inflation, and certainly not if we fall into stagflation, in other words recession, recession, recession, in Europe combined with inflation, as such the worst possible. So I do not really think we are very disagreeable, and I have also stressed on several occasions the importance of our real danger here with ease. I am not quite sure about the figure, but as I remember it, you have to make up for something similar to 30-40 billion. kr., if you have to compensate one for one, and that shows something about how big the challenge is. But it also shows that when the government then proposes something involving a few billion, we are nowhere near lifting the burden of the Danes' shoulders. So basically, I agree that when there is inflation, we must be careful and that we really risk making the problems bigger. I do not think that the government has done this with the relatively limited proposal, which is, of course, about pensioners who have the least, and I hope that, when we have put forward a proposal with funding, we can continue the negotiations. Because I just have to point out that if you are a national pensionist and you only have a national pension and not a large savings fund, it can actually now be difficult to get the ends to reach together. So we must pursue an economically responsible policy, but at the same time we must have an eye on the groups most at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132017	Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132019	Yes, I would also like to acknowledge that the government and the Minister for Finance have now found some other real funding options. But basically it still doesn't solve the big challenge. Because what do we do? I just think it's worth a conversation. What are we going to do in three months or six months or one year from now if inflation is still high? Should we then send a new check or more checks and then blow it to inflation as well? How do we find sustainable funding? And it is not only the old-age pensionists who are financially challenged, but so are families on transfer income. The poorest people in our country are people on the benefits of integration who have the very least, and it is, for example, the Ukrainians, and therefore the call is also from here that we rather than hand out cheques are looking at how we can get in the recommendations submitted by the Commission on Services almost a year ago, so that we can have a simpler, but also a fairer, system of benefits. So I would like to ask what considerations the Prime Minister is making to create more long-term solutions which are financially responsible, but which also provide security for the economy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132132	I have to say that there is something murmuring and that it is so close that it is a little annoying for those who stand here. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132139	I think that is a very, very relevant question. At any rate, we have been honest on our part throughout that we will not be able to take the consequences of inflation from the Danes' shoulders, and we do not know how long it will take. We can see that it is an inflation that is not determined by our own policy. It is because of the war in Ukraine, it is because of rising energy prices, it is because of the value chain problems that are because the pandemic is colliding with the war in Ukraine. So we're part of a megatrend right now that we have to deal with as well as we possibly can. But some of what we can do, and which will really mean something to many Danish families, is the phasing out of natural gas, which we are also doing. Because it is, of course, energy prices that are driving inflation right now. Then we may be looking into a food crisis that can make food prices even higher, but right now it is actually very much energy prices that push it up. I think that what we are discussing with each other now is how we can get people away from their gas guys at home and over to district heating and reduce their bills, probably one of the very best things we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132248	Sofie Carsten Nielsen for her last question, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132250	I fully agree with the latter: let us make this happen as soon as possible, and then the infrastructure investment and capital investment that the government is proposing to finance must not become the ones that should ensure that all those who have gas today move on to green heat as soon as possible. However, the last question is that we have not actually yet had a real economic plan in this period of government, no 2030 plan yet, as we did from 1995 onwards with ten-year plans, and there have been crises, and there have been covid, as the Prime Minister also says. So it is postponed, and that is understandable, because things have changed enormously. But does the Prime Minister agree that it cannot continue so that, in order to have a responsible economy and to be able to plan things, for example when war comes and these things happen, it is essential to have a long-term economic plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132346	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132347	Yes, I agree with that, and that is why, after the summer break, we are presenting a 2030 plan. But I have to say that it is true that, because of the crises, we have perhaps had to deal with the economy rather than think so much about it, but that the conclusion is that it has gone beyond all expectations and that, moreover, there is reason to be very, very proud, across political parties and colours, of how strong the Danish economy is, that is, the lowest unemployment rate for 13 years, the highest growth for 27 years, a low public debt, and perhaps for me as a Social Democrat, the most important thing is the highest employment ever. I am a child of the 1970s and 1980s, and I know that what can really weigh down the Danish family is when unemployment hits and you don't have a job to get up to in the morning. I can't believe we have the highest employment ever. So yes, we need to start a 2030 plan, and we have laid the stones to it, and here and now, before the war takes place, we must be pleased that we have one of the strongest economies at all. Well, it's sort of worked out in a collective way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132451	The question is over, thank you to Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then we move on to Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132504	Thank you. Today I would like to ask about the government's plans for a so-called reception centre in Rwanda. After all, the government is dreaming of creating one where you will fly refugees who are in Denmark and have applied for asylum, 6,200 km south, and even if they are granted asylum in Denmark, the plan is that they should stay down there. Rwanda is geographically half as large as Denmark, but still has 75 000 refugees from one of their neighbouring countries and 130 000 refugees in total already. The UN Refugee Organisation, which is helping to run refugee camps down there, says that they already have so much difficulty in managing the task that it strongly advises against setting up such a reception centre. The argument, as I hear from the government, is that refugees will be saved from drowning in the Mediterranean, but I simply do not believe that. Our neighbouring countries do not believe that, nor does the European Commission believe that. They say that it will only mean that Denmark will receive fewer refugees while our neighbours will receive more. That brings me to my question. The Prime Minister is travelling around right now and talking about the time being for unity, but at the same time you want to do this, run what I think is a solord, perhaps exclusively with Boris Johnson, at a time when the Prime Minister is preaching unity. What kind of unity is there in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132638	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132639	I visited a refugee camp for the first time in the 1990s, and my best bet is that conditions have only got worse over time. We have historically many people on the run, and what I really think is the big headache is that the refugee system we have has collapsed. It is inhumane, it is inhumane, and it is, if I may be a little direct, associated with abuse, rape, torture, unnecessary death and suffering. And then it's odd, because the stronger health, the more money, the more likely you'll find a way to a safe and secure harbor. If now disabled, single mother with seven children, has no financial means or is otherwise surrounded by even more difficult conditions than most others, the risk that you will not be able to go to Europe or anywhere else where there is a safe harbour is equivalent. That is actually our starting point. The refugee system is not working and there is too much human suffering associated with it. That is why it is our wish, and it is also our recommendation that it is here at home, and it is in the international community because of solidarity that we have created a new refugee system, where you do not have that spontaneous asylum application, which is so dangerous, and where today it is really human smugglers and traffickers who win the allerallermost. It is not because I have a dream about a refugee centre or a reception centre somewhere else, it is after years of knowledge of the refugee system where I can see it does not work that I and we believe we need a completely new system. That is what drives us so that we can really take better care of more people. For the next headache are the many refugees we have received in Denmark and in Europe. We spend much more money on helping refugees here, even when they are rejected asylum seekers, but we could really help many more, for example. children and women, if we help in the vicinity. That's what drives us. Then we have to find a way to do this, a proper way, but the driving force is to help more and better than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132841	Mrs. Mai Villadsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132842	Well in Enhedslisten we also want to help more, and we share the analysis that the refugee system has collapsed, is broken, but the solution must be to have something together that Denmark does not run solo. And I would like to remind the Prime Minister when the Prime Minister talks about concern about torture and other things, which country it is that has begun to cooperate with. After all, the government knows that Rwanda has a regime accused of using torture, arbitrary imprisonments, and all opposition is practically exiled from the country. The Prime Minister got, I think, 99 per cent of the support for the last elections, and that is not to be desired, because it is an expression of a very, very undemocratic country, and that is what the government has openly plunged itself into, that is to say, to send asylum seekers from Denmark, while at the same time, when you listen to our neighbouring countries, it will be far out of place with their perspective. So is there really not a lower limit on who we should be working with on these issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132950	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510132951	It is clear that if at some point, or the day Denmark will hopefully start a concrete cooperation with another country, it will have to be done in a proper way. Our commitments, including those of an international nature, must always be met. But I do see that there is actually an interesting movement in a number of African countries, at least through the conversations I have had myself, where there is a view of migration and refugees, which better matches how I, for example. the world, and indeed they are also convinced that the way things are going today is actually unsustainable, and a number of African countries are also under great pressure because of a moving system in Europe that no longer works. I would never say that our ideas are better than those of others, but I really think that I will then call for a more substantial discussion on how to remedy the problems that exist, because when the Enhedslisten also believes that the current refugee system does not work at all and is not actually very humane and if you talk to refugees, you hear some horrible stories... what is the alternative to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133102	Thank you. Mai Villadsen, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133103	But the alternative must be to make a solidarity distribution of the refugees, not to land it in that way and go alone and make so-called reception centres, which are in fact intended merely as a deterrent, so it is our neighbouring countries that must help more. An alternative could also be to make agreements with countries which, I repeat, are being accused of, and come from very valid sources, committing torture, arbitrary imprisonment. There is no opposition left, and it is a deeply undemocratic regime, and we really do not know what will happen to the people we send down there. Does the government really think it can stand up to that? Is there no lower limit to what we should contribute to? In my view, this will mean that we will help to make this refugee system even more inhumane.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133153	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133154	The lower limit is of course interesting, because there are many internally displaced persons in Yemen right now, and it is probably one of the biggest humanitarian disasters on the planet right now; it is just not really reached the public yet, but being a child or a woman there, is it not below a lower limit of what we really think we can allow when there are people involved? And that applies to a great many of the world's refugees. There is a moral dilemma, I think, for all of us here in the Folketing, because the refugee system that is today is the most expensive, it is inhumane, and it is really, really expensive, and think of how many more people we could help if we helped in the neighbourhood. We could help thousands more children, women than we can do today. So it is clear that every time Denmark cooperates with another country, and it does not matter what we cooperate on, things must of course be done in a proper way, and we always emphasise this in our development aid and in trade agreements and in everything else, because of course it must. It has been a good discussion to have today that the current refugee system does not work, and then we need to have a talk about how to do it better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133304	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. The question is over. And then we move on to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133312	Thank you. Highest employment, highest growth. That's great. After all, things are going well, and they are doing so thanks to many things, and certainly not least the reforms of the past. I just think that we should welcome this together, as the Prime Minister actually urged us to do. I'd like to do that, too. Isn't the time, since everything is so good, to say to the Danes: Dear Danes, dear companies, now is the time for you to get a little more of your own money back. You can keep a little more for yourself, because things are going so well, that instead of we just keep getting more and more money uncritically in the world's largest public sector, you need to get some money for yourself anyway. Wasn't this the time to make that decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133404	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133405	First of all, I think it is incredibly dressable that we can find a way to enjoy the things that succeed in our society. And I actually think that many Danes expect that when something goes well, we can stop across political divides and enjoy it instead of claiming the opposite. And that is why, of course, when something is not going well, we also have to be able to address it properly. Secondly, I would like to say that I would kindly like to let that one know. Indeed, I would also think that there were plenty of potential Social Democratic voters who would love to have that. But before we go down that track, I simply have to ask: where is the money to be saved? Because I believe that what is being proposed is some savings within the welfare society. And I just know that according to the discussions that have already taken place today about the psychiatry, the money is not solved. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen is a former primary school teacher and also knows that it is not because they do so in primary school. I do not think we yet have an elderly care that is as good as I think it should be in a welfare society like ours. So before we go all the way to a yes, I need to know that, and I think Danes have also where it is exactly that needs to be cut in the welfare society. For both are part of the conservative idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133521	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133521-2	But this is a classic political discussion, because if you do not let the public sector grow linearly or in relation to the demographic trait, then you call it savings. And I think that is an interesting discussion. And I think that at some point we need to have some more honesty in this debate with the people, because for how long can we keep telling the people that there are no borders? We just keep uncritically pumping money into a larger and larger public sector. Well, can the Prime Minister guarantee me that just by pumping a lot of money into the care of the elderly, we get better care for the elderly? I think what we need to have is a discussion of the value of how we treat each other and what it is we can expect from each other as people instead of just saying: we have sent a check or a bag of money to an area, and then the sacred grave is well preserved. I guess we need to have that discussion, and we also need to discuss whether reforms should not be made at some point in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133617	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133618	I totally agree. In other words, we are going to continue along the path of reform and hope that we can do so together, and also that we can take decisions together even before the summer recess, for example. As far as green tax reform is concerned, which is really, really important to get in place Well, I think I've almost never advocated that if you send more money to our welfare community, then the problems are solved. I don't believe that at all. At the same time, however, I feel absolutely convinced that, as there are more elderly people, we will also have to give priority to the elderly, because if we do not do that, then that is savings. And it can be said that what I really want most of all is to carry out a huge reform of proximity afterwards, once we have a new legislation on the elderly, with much less bureaucracy, much less central demands, much more common sense, much more freedom, much more room for the individual. But the money that is being released by it, I would like to spend on that, for example. is served a decent food to our old people, and that you shouldn't be lying with a diaper just because you've been 85 years old in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133721	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133723	It opens up an awful lot of interesting discussions that could, in effect, continue down. I just feel that I understand the Prime Minister in such a way that things are going really well in Danish economy overall; there are a lot of Danes who have a job. We should be pleased about this together. But there is no possibility that the Danes who go to work every day can get a little more for themselves, while it will be completely impossible to find a crown that can be saved in the world's largest public sector. So I think: how can the rest of the world endure living, that is, if the only model is the Danish with a huge, huge public sector, where the Danes just have to be picked in taxes? There must be a way to find it, if not another way, then a middle way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133807	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133809	Well, we can always discuss that. Well, I guess we can figure out how to spend the money in a different and smarter way. We have tried to do this in different ways, and we have done some of this together. What I think, in fact, is that it is quite economically irresponsible to just stand and promise tax relief. If you want to be responsible and perhaps even Prime Minister's candidate, then I just think you have to tell me how you intend to finance it. In other words, where is it that less money is to be spent in the public sector? It is not enough just to say that you want to spend less money. So you have to answer: is it health, is it kindergarten, is it older, is it primary school, is it disability? Where is the money to be taken from? That would, in my view, give a much more sincere, transparent political debate instead of just promising tax cuts. And then I would say that you can live good life in many places on the world, but in my view Denmark is actually the best society, and we have the best social model.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133902	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. The question is over. And that means that we move on to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510133911	There's something weird about this, and it gets clearer and clearer for me every time. I mean, everybody's just sitting there looking down their cell phones and stuff. So it is the Prime Minister of the country who answers questions. But maybe the reason why people look down their cell phones is because she doesn't actually answer the questions. It is, of course, only called question time, it is not called question-answer-time. Maybe that's why. When Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen asks about Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, there will be no answer. When I last asked about the Prime Minister's relationship with Aalborg Portland and the benefit they have received with regard to CO2, what on earth should you ask to get an answer from the Prime Minister in this Parliament? I think I will simply bite the hook and then, as the only party chairman, I will ask about what the Prime Minister started out with. Then maybe I can get an answer. However, it is notable in itself that we have not yet had one party leader here, just three weeks before a referendum, other than the Prime Minister himself, who has spoken about the reservation of defence. Not even those who love the European Union more than their own great-grandmother have here so close to the reservation vote wanted to take it up with the Prime Minister of the country. That's remarkable. Anyway, I'd like to offer. Because you can read on Twitter the following, which I shall read with the permission of the President in English; I will translate it afterwards: We need to go even further. For example, I have always argued that unanimity voting in some key areas no longer make sense, if we want to move faster. I mean, we have to move on. For example: We need to get away from unanimity in certain areas if we want to move forward. As you know, it was Ursula von der Leyen, the President of the European Commission, who yesterday brought out the very spectacular news, or rather annoying news to the Prime Minister, that the right of veto which the Prime Minister has at least made one of his central arguments in the 'yes' campaign will now be removed. So what does the Prime Minister really think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134113	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134115	I very much disagree with the President of the Commission on this and, fortunately, it requires a treaty amendment, and Denmark will be opposed to that. I'm not annoyed about it. We must, of course, have different views on how European cooperation should develop. The Danish People's Party believes that we should withdraw from European cooperation. That would, in my view, be very bad for Denmark. That would be very bad for Europe. I think Putin would be happy, but none of us would find any kind of joy in it. So there must be room for different opinions, but that is not what we are looking into, because it is not just me as Danish Prime Minister who is opposed to this. So are a number of countries, and just yesterday we were more, Denmark, Sweden and 11 other countries, who announced that this is not the way we want Europe to go. I would say that I am very, very strong in favour of communities, including political communities. Deep in my heart, I am in favour of NATO, and I have no doubt that when the Danes have been able to live so many for decades in security, it is because of our defence alliance. I am very strongly in favour of European cooperation, which in my view is the project of peace. However, despite my support for political communities, I do not love them more than my great-grandmothers. And I am one of those who has had the pleasure of having had great-grandmothers to quite late in life, and my love for them is after all greater than politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134235	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134237	That is nice to hear, because I have heard the Prime Minister talk about having Europe at its heart and being at the heart of Europe and such things. And I agree that when it comes to heart, passion and love, I also think that it should be reserved for real people and not political institutions. So it'll be fine if that's where we're going. So, as far as the right of veto is concerned, why not actually remove it? I mean, you did it in 2007 and it was in 19 areas? You did it in 2001 with the Treaty of Nice, didn't you? You also did so in 1998 with the Treaty of Amsterdam. Oh, yes, and then, of course, there were both the Maastricht Treaty and the Edinburgh Agreement, where you recommended a yes both times, in 1992 and in 1993. You actually did it in 1986. Well, there are quite a few times where you have removed the right of veto, and a few of the times you have also been so mad that you have done so without asking the Danes. So why don't you just bring this? That's the way the train goes anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134327	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134329	I take responsibility for much, but now we are so far back that I was more concerned with the Danish Melodi Grand Prix, and 1986 was a good year, because then Kirsten and Søren had won two years in a row; I had not come quite close to the European discussion already in 1986. I can actually answer quite simply why I am against it. This is because I believe that the European Union is a cooperation between the nation states. I am very, very strong in favour of the European nation state, which I believe has proved to be the strongest democratic construction at all. It is the construction that has brought its peoples the most prosperity, most freedom and most democracy. However, on various issues, the nation state will need to cooperate with others, which is why I am also a European in my heart. And if I am going to point out one point where I was really confirmed in it, it was in fact when I was walking around in Kyiv; by seeing the destruction of Putin's war machine and facing a Ukrainian population whose greatest desire, apart from peace, is to join the political communities, yes, there you become a European in the heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134439	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134442	But why was it a problem in all the other areas? Denmark's integrity, Denmark's independence, will probably also be undermined when you make majority decisions and remove the right of veto in the area of justice, the environment or industry. Well, there are several pages in Karnov about the areas where you have removed the right of veto. And now the Prime Minister says that half of the countries are against removing the right of veto in this area. Yeah, yeah, but didn't it start there with a lot of the other stuff? At any rate, I recall that in 1986 the Social Democrats were among those who recommended a sceptical approach to the Single Act, and that has been the case in other areas, but the whole package is still being eaten on a regular basis. So what guarantees can the Prime Minister give that this will not also happen when it comes to our defence policy, if the Danes do not hold onto it, that is to say the reservation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134539	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134541	For me, this is heart blood. The decision to send Danish soldiers to a conflict area is one of the hardest and one of the most important decisions one can make as a politician at all, and that decision must be made here. That is my very, very clear conviction. It must be taken here, and it is we who must answer to the Danes, but it is we in particular who must answer to the mothers and fathers who must send their daughters or sons. And this is what I'm telling you, I shouldn't hide with quite a lot of emotions because I'm a veteran family myself. The decision to engage in a conflict can be a real decision and a necessary decision. I have no doubt that there will be more conflicts that we must deal with and engage in for the sake of civilian populations and for the sake of our own security. But decisions about Danish soldiers, I think, should be made here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134638	Thank you. The question is over, so thank you to Mr. Simpson. Morten Messerschmidt. Now it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134645	Thank you. The Prime Minister is the world champion in not answering the questions that are being asked, but let me try anyway. On 26 April, when we last met in Parliament, we discussed wind turbines and nuclear power. That discussion ended with a promise from the Prime Minister to consult the Danes. The Prime Minister wants thousands more wind turbines on land. I would like to get them out to sea if we want more at all, and then I would like nuclear power to be included in the Danish energy plan. Nuclear power will not be heard by the Prime Minister at all, and the Prime Minister was so convinced at the last Question Time that the Danes were with him that the Prime Minister promised to take up the challenge and ask the Danes for advice. In fact, the Prime Minister said, and I quote: 'But this challenge I would actually like to take up, so that we ask the Danes whether they would like to have a nuclear power station where they live or whether they would like a windmill. I have to say for myself that I would rather have I do not know how many wind turbines than I want a nuclear power plant.... Since then I have tried in vain to get an answer from the Prime Minister on how and when the government intends to honour the promise to ask the Danes, but my inquiries to the Prime Minister's Office just resulted in such a slightly laconic response from an official who said that the Prime Minister is not able to answer the question. Oh, I thought, that's probably not quite right, so a simple question can of course be answered by the Prime Minister. I guess it's more about will. So I try again in the hope of getting a real answer: when and how will the Prime Minister fulfil his promise and hold a referendum on the choice between several wind turbines on land or nuclear power, so that you can ask the Danes, as Prime Minister promised 14 days ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134835	I think it is important to say that I have not promised a referendum. I wouldn't be in favour of it either. I am very, very strong in favour of representative democracy. I believe in the rule of the people in all its possibilities and, of course, sometimes in its limitations. That, in my view, is the way to ask the Danes. When the Danes go to the ballot box, it is the Danes who decide what kind of government is responsible in this country and what kind of policy it is. Now there is less than a year for the parliamentary elections to be held, and I think that this is an obvious theme to go into that election campaign, i.e. whether you want nuclear power or whether you want renewable energy. When I'm concerned that we're getting more renewable energy, of course it's both because of the climate it goes without saying, but it's also because I want to get rid of Putin's gas and fossil fuels. It is a problem for Europe that we buy gas, oil and coal from Putin. That's a problem. And the sooner we get rid of it, the better it is for the sake of Ukraine and for the sake of Europe. So when we propose from the government that we should have more wind energy at sea, more wind energy on land and more solar energy, it is to free ourselves from Putin's gas as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134951	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510134952	The Prime Minister said when we last met that the Prime Minister wanted to ask the Danes, but apparently the Prime Minister does not want the answer. So you should not promise something that you do not intend to keep, let alone if you are a politician. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is just as good at not answering questions as the Prime Minister is good at promising one and then doing nothing. Before the elections, for example, the Prime Minister and the Social Democratic Party promised. a solution to an entirely untenable situation we have in connection with the Kærshovedård exit centre. Nothing has been done about that. Now we can read in the latest terrorist assessment from PET that there is a direct terrorist threat from Kærshovedgård. They expelled Muslims radicalized. In addition to harassment, violence and thefts in the local area, the Danes are now also risking Islamic terror on Danish soil because the government watched without doing anything. You can't just ignore that. How are the government and the Prime Minister actually going to take care to eliminate this threat to Danes security?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135052	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135053	So, all parties, and it doesn't matter whether you're in government or whether you're in opposition, will always be limited by whether you can get 90 mandates for your policy. And as the questioner knows, we have tried to find another solution with regard to the exit centre, which there was no support for in the Folketing. That is the condition under which we work, and I know that new citizens have not achieved all their policies during this parliamentary term, because there have not been 90 mandates behind it, and that also applies to the social democracy which is in government today. To come back to the second question, it is of course a relevant discussion on what kind of energy we want to base our society on. I think that nuclear power has far too many challenges in itself and in itself, and that is why I am actually pleased that this issue will be an issue in the next parliamentary elections and the next election campaign. And I would actually like to call on the new citizens to be very specific about where that nuclear power station is going to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135153	Mrs Pernille Vermund, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135155	So, I have to say that I understand from the Prime Minister's somewhat thin answer to a question about a very concrete and serious problem that the Danes must learn to live with the terrorist threat, as the Prime Minister has said before, and I think that is completely unacceptable. Has the government considered whether it is not time to divide the deportees, so we have the criminals for ourselves and the non-criminals for ourselves? I know that there is an article or two in some international conventions which require Danish politicians to let the criminal and radicalised Muslims walk freely among us, but we are talking here about a real terrorist threat, as PET has assessed it. Does the Prime Minister not agree that the threat of radicalised Muslims to the security of the Danes must and must weigh more heavily than the threat of international conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135244	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135245	I do not think anyone is in any doubt about how busy I am in the fight against terrorism and has been both as Minister of Justice and subsequently as Prime Minister. I represent a government that is willing to go far to find the answers needed to secure the Danes. But I also have to say that this government, and this also applies to a future bourgeois government, is not going to terminate the international conventions, and if that is what you are trying to deceive the Danes, then we will have to expose that bluff now. Because whether Mrs. Pernille Vermund points to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen or Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, then neither of the two gentlemen will terminate the conventions of which Denmark is a part. So if what you are trying to deceive the Danes is that if, after an election, a bourgeois government comes, those conventions will be terminated, then it is not right. That's not right. That's a bluff. That is why we need to discuss how, within the international rules of the game, we are best suited to Denmark and how we ensure the safety of the Danes in the best possible way, both in the area of refugees and in the prevention of terrorism. But what you're trying to signal is a bluff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135345	Thank you. The question is over, so thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then we move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135354	Thank you. When we last had an election campaign, the big battle number from the Social Democrats and the Left was that we had to have a new majority because the bourgeois people were pursuing a socially biased policy that increased inequality and increased poverty in Denmark. We almost caused massive child poverty, but the red parties would probably have to deal with that when they came to power. It turned out to be a big bluff. I have asked the Ministry of Finance to calculate the effect of government and left-wing policy over the last 3 years, and the answer is quite clear: virtually all income groups in Denmark have become poorer by government policy; in particular, the 42 tax increases are responsible for this. Indeed, there is only one income group that has experienced a rise in income, and it is the second richest income group in Denmark that you would normally say are those who live in the Whisky Belt. And inequality in this parliamentary term has increased almost as much as in the parliamentary term in which the Liberal Alliance sat in government and inequality has increased because the taxes that have been introduced have hit the poorest in Denmark the hardest. I mean, think about it! You have withdrawn the cash benefits, you have raised the daily allowances, you have handed out cheques to core voters, and yet you have managed to make them poorer, and you have managed to increase the inequality also when calculating the effect of increasing tobacco taxes. When you don't count on it, the result is still that the Danes become poorer and the inequality increases. I'm here with the figures from the Treasury; it's not something I'm just pulling out of my butt. We've been hearing for years, among other things. from the Prime Minister, but also from the rest of the parties on the left, that Denmark becomes a worse country when inequality increases and when there is more poverty. So my question is actually quite simple: how can we actually feel that Denmark has become a worse country in this parliamentary term as a result of the government and the left having increased inequality and increased poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135542	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135544	Well, with all due respect, I think this is a wrong way to discuss inequality. I said that before the elections, as I said in the election campaign, and I have also repeated it afterwards. Paragraph 1: I do not recognise the indictment of poverty that others use; I have not done so at any time, and I said so before the elections, as I said in the election campaign, and I have said it afterwards. Point 2: You're going to have to look down below those numbers at what kind of inequality it is that's going to increase. I am entirely in favour of the fact that I find it problematic if, under a bourgeois government, a great deal of attention is given to some of those who already have the highest incomes and allow inequality to rise for that reason. I still find that problematic. But if we look at some of the things that have been involved in the inventory we are talking about here, then it is true that it is the tobacco taxes that many of us agreed to introduce, because there is another inequality problem, namely that it is unevenly distributed, in relation to who has the worst lives and in fact is also the victims of the most diseases. Something else that counts here is the change in relation to the graduation allowance, because we choose, when people are newly trained, to reduce the daily allowance. That is what we believe to be an inequality, and I do not recognise that, because we are doing this in order to get people out more quickly in the labour market. So there are some inequality mechanisms that may be exciting in theory, but in the real world and in my view they almost count vice versa. Arnepensionen is, moreover, a third example of this. So when I look down over the economic ratios, it's what I start by looking at how many people are at work. For it is having access to work and employment that really does it; the most important thing for whether you get a good life or not is whether you have a job. And with the lowest unemployment rate for 13 years and the highest level of employment ever, it is the most important contribution to a more equal society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135739	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135740	I fully agree that it is more important for people to be in work than for inequality to fall, but I have not chosen that inequality was too great either. I have not gone to the polls because Denmark is too big for small differences. I have not gone to the polls and have not promised the voters that I will reduce child poverty and reduce inequality. And when you look at the government's policy and the consequences for disposable income, well, the result is just that no matter what explanation you've got that all income groups except a few in the Whisky belt have become poorer and that inequality has increased because the poorest have become even poorer. But then I understand that what made it a problem with the rising inequality under a blue majority was that it came from the rich getting richer. I just need to make sure I get it right. So inequality is a fine thing as long as it hits the poorest hardest, that is, that everyone gets poorer, but that the poorest gets even poorer, while inequality is a big problem if everyone gets richer, but the richest just gets even richer, so that inequality is a problem. I mean, how are you supposed to understand this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135833	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135834	That is certainly not the way to understand it. In my view, this is too theoretical a way to view our society. One of the things that has happened in recent years is that we have managed to move people from cash to employment. People have moved out of cash to employment. It's the best thing you can do. If you are concerned about child poverty, that is what you have to do. It is not to keep people on those benefits, directly or indirectly; it is to move children's parents to work, not only because of the economy, but also because, at least in part, it is much better life that you live once you have entered the labour market, on a number of different parameters. So I think it's gonna be too theoretical and too abstract. And if we look into reality Denmark, people have been moved from cash assistance to employment. We have the lowest unemployment rate for 13 years, and that means that people who were previously unemployed under the bourgeois government have now come to work. That's the most important thing you can do in terms of inequality. So finally, because now I think time has passed, I would just like to make an appeal: economic inequality is not the only thing to look at; it is also inequality in terms of opportunities in our society and, above all, in terms of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135941	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510135943	It is usually said that the built-in error in capitalism is the unequal distribution of wealth, while the built-in error in socialism is the equal distribution of misery. I understand that the theory books have to be rewritten, because it now appears that the built-in error of social democracy is the unequal distribution of misery. I simply do not believe that the Prime Minister is sufficiently concerned with what is achieved when assessing the government, not in the economic cycle, not on inflation, not on all possible trends for which the government cannot take the credit or the blame, but on what the government can take the credit and the blame for, namely the effects structurally of government policy. When you ask the Ministry of Finance what the effect of government policy is, they say that all income groups, except the second richest, are becoming poorer, and they do so largely because of tax increases and inequality is increasing. So, you can both make the Danes poorer and increase inequality. That's actually pretty impressive. I just want to say that does this mean that, in future, we will not go to elections for less inequality and less poverty when we have made the problems worse ourselves? Or is it only when there is a blue majority that it is something we need to tear our noses while when you increase the inequality, it doesn't matter, so is it something theoretical and abstract?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140047	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140049	In fact, I think we should aim to have as low inequality as possible in our society, but I don't care how we do it. If you, for example, set up all the lowest benefits, you will narrowly reduce the inequality, then you create even more inequality in some other areas. Then inequality will increase in some other areas. That is why my main concern is to get people into work. It is the most important engine in our society, it is cultural, but it is also economic. One might say that the inequality that comes from the fact that you are raising the price of cigarettes is one of the reasons why I have always been against raising the price of cigarettes, but I have been convinced that it is the right thing to do for the sake of something else: that we lose everything, too many people in our society to col, lung cancer and cancer in general, and that too many people have bad lives because of smoking. So there I have to accept one on paper, the economic inequality, and it is true that you can also feel it when you go down to the kiosk or supermarket, but hopefully it gives something more equality in health and in good life, and that is sometimes the dilemmas we face.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140159	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140206	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister. My questions today will be about human rights. Last week the Prime Minister of India had Prime Minister Modi on a state visit to Denmark, and in many ways it was a surrealistic experience, because Modi is, to put it mildly, a controversial leader. Modi has a background in the RSS, which is a militant fascist organisation, such as: Was responsible for the murder of Mahatma Gandhi. Modi had an entry ban in the United States because he was held responsible for killing thousands of people, thousands of Muslims, as chief minister of the state of Gujarat. Modi is behind the oppression of the Sikhs in India, Modi's regime is behind the oppression of Christians in India, and Modi and Modi's regime is behind a violent repression of the people of Kashmir in Jammu and Kashmir. Over 10,000 women have been raped, and over 100,000 people have died. Modi's government is now carrying out a population replacement, just as Israel is doing in Palestine. Modi is behind violent violations in Jammu and Kashmir, and therefore my question to the Prime Minister is: Did the Prime Minister condemn the human rights violations of India and Modi in Jammu and Kashmir when Modi was on a state visit to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140356	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140358	Thank you for that question too. It is part of the intensified cooperation that we have between the European Union and India that we are, of course, also discussing human rights, and we are doing so on the global stage at all. We have a very strong desire throughout Europe to get even closer to India. By the way, it is a wish that we share with the Americans and other of our allies. And the visit Modi made in Europe took place first in Berlin, then it was here in Copenhagen, and then it was in Paris, and during the visit here in Copenhagen, Modi and I had the opportunity to meet all the Nordic prime ministers at a Nordic-Indian summit. So we agree in Europe and transatlantic to strengthen our ties with India, and we also advocate that in Denmark. We are, after all, because India, although there are challenges in India, is the world's largest democracy. They have a strong democratic tradition, and when we look at the geopolitical picture, not least because of what is happening with Russia, we need the world's democracies to unite even more, and we need to strengthen our cooperation, as well as India. However, it is part of the cooperation between the European Union and India that human rights are of course also being discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140517	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140519	I'm gonna have to ask you again. There are 100,000 women raped. Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International have done it. 100,000 people have been killed and a population replacement is being made in Jammu and Kashmir. The Internet has been shut down; teachers and young people are disappearing. Several of Modi's leading advisors say that they do not want there to be Christians, Muslims and Sikhs in India, but that it should be Storhindustan as they call it. I have to ask the Prime Minister, and I hope that the Prime Minister will give a clear and clear answer: Doomed the Prime Minister, that is not what the EU is proposing for the counter-human rights violations and the killings that he and his regime commit in Jammu and Kashmir? Did the PM condemn it at the meeting with Modi? Did the Prime Minister say: Modi, we condemn what you are doing in Kashmir, the human rights violations and killings that you are behind in Kashmir, where women are being raped? Did the Prime Minister condemn Modi?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140624	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140626	As I said before, the dialogue on human rights is part of the cooperation we have with India, and I think they should be, too. I also hope that a number of non-democratic states are surrounded by just as much attention from other political parties. In my view, it is important that the world's democracies work together in terms of security policy, geopolitical policy and, moreover, for reasons of climate. It is clear that when you work together, you must also be able to discuss the things that you disagree on or that you look at differently. So cooperation between Europe and India must, of course, also contain human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140706	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140708	That is a little like saying that we can then work together with all sorts of other crazy leaders. So we're gonna work with Putin? So, it is leaders who commit violent killings and oppression and who occupy countries and attack countries. My last question to the Prime Minister relates to a question that I did not receive in the last Question Time. That is why I would like to repeat my question, and it is also about human rights. During the month of Ramadan, which has just ended, we have seen the Israeli regime attacking civilian Palestinians in and around the Al- 881/2002 Mosque. Since 15 April, over 200 civilian Palestinians have been injured by women, children and men. Does the Prime Minister and the Government condemn the Israeli attacks on civilian Palestinians?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140804	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140805	Basically, I do not believe that I understand that a question can be asked about Israel-Palestine without having the other side of the coin, because Israel is constantly subjected to quite violent attacks by the Palestinian side. But the spiral of violence we see in the Middle East is not good for anything; it is not good for anyone. After all, the European Union has already expressed this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140831	That concludes the question. This means that we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510140842	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we are concerned about the well-being of young people at school, in the education system and in the youth culture at all. Studies show, for example, that over half of young women between 16 and 24 years of age have too high stress levels. Every six youths over 16 years of age have poor mental health. 23% by girls and 9% by girls. of boys in the 9th grade are at risk of having an eating disorder. 34 per cent Danish high school students have at some point done damage to themselves by drinking incredible amounts of alcohol, tearing hair out of their heads, burning themselves with cigarettes and not least cutting themselves. This means, of course, that we allocate a lot of millions of kroner to psychologists for young people. We have been involved in this in the alternative, and that money has fallen in a dry place. But in the alternative, we have actually reached a point where we are tired of treating the ills of young people by sending them to psychologists. When there is so much distrust among young people, there is something more fundamental that does not work. Young people themselves mention that they feel great stress, zero failure culture, performance race, that they can never do things well enough, that they spend much of their youth feeling wrong and inadequate. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if she thinks this is the way young people should grow up. In other words, does the Prime Minister think that we politicians are sometimes so quick to believe that young people should just be small production units that have to hurry through the education system in order to get a job and create positive figures on the bottom line of society so that we can be re-elected as politicians? Perhaps the Prime Minister believes that the meaning and well-being of many young people disappear too much along the way, which is of course a problem, because well-being is the prerequisite for learning and for positive identity development and for a good youth life. How important does the Prime Minister think well-being is for young people, and what will the Prime Minister do to increase the prosperity of Danish young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141042	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141044	First of all, I think it is a good and right and necessary question to ask, and I agree that if we focus only on single elements, it will be just symptom treatment. Because it's something in our time that's not good for us. And when so many children and young people experience dissatisfaction, it is a social problem and not an individual problem. There was something in the list that I thought was overlooked, and it is after all the use of social media, the emergence of social media and the much time on the screen. If I remember correctly, young female teenagers in Denmark spend 4-5 hours a day on social media. That's a long time. After all, it is hours that go away from some communities that I think are more edifying, that is, sports activities, a leisure job, good relations with other people. I think if we're gonna have this discussion, we're gonna have to look all around. For the culture of perfection, sir. Torsten Gejl talks about, I recognize, but it is certainly something that has been created in the outer world, i.e. how to look, what is the right thing to do at the right time. It is again, I believe, a great deal of responsibility for the tech giants in relation to what is happening on social media. In fact, I believe that in many ways, if we could take it out of the children and young people's lives today, it would make things look different. So this element is definitely going to be part of the discussion. I think it would be good to have a discussion all around how we create the best conditions for children and young people to be robust in terms of living life. 'Cause living this life requires a lot of resilience. I mean, there are defeats on our way, and there will be crises that we have to deal with. If we don't have that ruggedness, we break too easily as humans. So I very much welcome this discussion, but would recommend that we really come all the way around. I personally believe that it starts and ends with relationships. If you are in strong, binding communities with other people, then it is probably the best protection we each have in order to be able to live a either good or a reasonably good life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141248	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141250	There is a concept that is increasingly gaining ground in the language of young people, and that is what they call generation theft. They feel that the adult generation takes money, they have to train for or live for, and they use it for something quite different. A small example of this was an email storm that was against our mailboxes last week from the IT students in PROSA. I don't know if the PM also received any e-mails. They write, among other things.: Yes, it is true that even with the new cuts the daily allowance rate will still be higher than the su, but the daily allowance is not meant as a kind of su. The Su is a financial support for the students. They can live on su, because in society we offer su-friendly prices for everything from housing to insurance. You can supplement su by having a study job. The low prices and the possibility of supplementing income with a student job disappear after graduating. Daily allowance is intended as an income for which you can live, but with the new cuts it will no longer be possible. A graduation rate of DKK 9,500. a month means a reduction in income of DKK 4,500. a month. Add to that the cancellation of the favourable prices for students. What is the PM's response to the PROSA students?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141353	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141354	Well, that's because there's no connection between the two things. For the problems of distrust in our society have therefore started long before there was even a discussion about graduation allowance. It was agreed in January. So the fact that a great many young people experience dissatisfaction simply cannot be related to this. There is a time lag between the two I stand at the goal of the unemployment allowance, because what is meant when you have finished your training is not that you should be on unemployment benefit. It's that you need a job. That's why you're educating. You train to become more skilled, to become smarter, to spend some youth years in education, but you do it because on the day you finish the training you have to work and support yourself. So the two things are simply not linked in time. I think we're gonna go a lot deeper, like I said before. We have traditionally been a society with very, very strong communities in the church, in the trade unions, in the housing associations, in voluntary Denmark, in the sports organizations, in the scouting organizations. Those communities have become fewer and fewer. I believe that there is a connection between this: the fewer binding communities we are involved in and the vulnerability we are experiencing in these years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141502	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl with his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141504	Now I do not really think that the young people, and I do not think that I suggested in my question, say that this is a matter of time. Those were two different questions. The last one is from Extinction Rebellion, which keeps a lot of activities in the city around and action these days. They ask: The Danish Climate Citizen thing says that animal farming must be reduced. The climate bourgeoisie consists of 100 ordinary Danes selected randomly, so they are representative of the population. Ordinary people are ready for major changes when they are informed of the extreme crises we are facing. They long for them. We are rebelling right now to demand power for the Civil Thing. Why don't you do what they recommend when it comes to reducing animal farming?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141547	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141549	First of all, we are well in the process of the necessary transformation of Denmark and, as such, we are also one of the countries which has come to an end. I'm so much a Democrat, I believe in this house. I believe in the rule of the people. I believe that this is where you have to assert your influence. I think it was a slightly positive description to call it activities. As I understand it, it is also something that may affect such ordinary activities. I think we should use our voice and commitment to democracy to make the necessary decisions. Fortunately, we are in the process of doing so, and right now we are negotiating to accelerate the green transition. So even though we are ahead of many others, we need to accelerate even more, have even more renewable energy, so we get out of Putin's gas and secure a fossil-free Denmark. This is actually a call to engage in this work, because we are in the process, but we are not at the end of the road at all, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510141650	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl, but also thanks to the Prime Minister. It's time for questioning. I have pressed the 'A', but it will be five minutes before we can get to the votes. There's gonna be a short break.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142207	The sitting is resumed. Nick Hækkerup (S) has informed me that he will resign as a member of the Folketing from 9 May 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142224	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142259	Member of the Folketing Signe Munk (SF) applied for leave from 1 June 2022, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as an application and that the deputy should be called as a temporary member. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142322	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the first deputy of the Social Democratic Party of North Zealand's Grand District, Maria Gudme, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing from 10 May 2022 onwards, since Nick Hækkerrup has resigned his mandate per year. 9 May 2022. I have also received the recommendation that the first deputy of the Socialist People's Party in Vestjyllands Storkreds, Karsten Filsø, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 1 June 2022 on the occasion of Signe Munk's leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142355	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 98 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, KD, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously with 98 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142419	Amendment No 5 has been tabled. L 193. Does anyone wish to speak? I understand that, sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142459	Thank you for that, President. It is quite true that we are tabling amendments to the draft law. After all, this bill is about abolishing Denmark's EU defence reserve. When we table an amendment, because this is the people's reservation, it is the people's guarantee that Denmark will not begin to participate in the military dimension of the European Union, which is of course about the possibility of contributing to military actions outside the EU's borders, primarily in Africa, in order to protect the EU's commercial interests. It is absolutely vital that the people can maintain that reservation, and that is precisely to guarantee that the Folketing will not begin to join without the people having had the opportunity to take a stand in a referendum. That is why I was happy when I heard the Foreign Minister say that that guarantee would be given and would be signed into the law. But I could then say that when the bill was there that the guarantee was not written into the law, but was only in the legislative notes. And, of course, it is a mistake, which is why it is wonderful for the government to have a friendly parliamentary basis which is willing to correct the errors that the government is making. That is why we have tabled this amendment which ensures that this guarantee is written directly into the legislative text, because then it is legally binding. And it is clear that it is not possible to commit the future members of parliament, but because it is in the text of the law itself, it will mean that there will have to be a genuine legislative procedure in the Folketing before that guarantee could be removed, rather than that it is merely a political declaration of intent which does not have the same validity. It is quite crucial to get that guarantee, because I would just like to remind you of the reports that were given yesterday. This is not because it is new reports, but it was again emphasized both by the President of the Commission, by the President of Parliament, by the President of the French Republic and by the Italian Prime Minister, and it is reports which are entirely in line with what the German Chancellor has said in the past, namely that we want to develop cooperation, so that it is based on majority voting instead of unanimity. Then it is true that the government has been out to say that you are not interested in that, and that is also very wise and very sensible. I am not saying that there will be an EU army or supranational cooperation tomorrow, or in six months' time or in a year's time, but I believe that we should be exceptionally politically naive if we do not listen to the signals sent by the President of the Commission, the President of Parliament, the President of France, the Chancellor of Germany and the Italian Prime Minister. After all, these are not unimportant people in EU cooperation, and they are the very people who have been the driving force behind EU integration. So if you do not recognise that that desire and ambition lie there, then I think you are politically incredibly naive. And that is why it is absolutely crucial that we ensure that the people are given the opportunity to be given a guarantee that they will be asked in a referendum not by a five-sixth majority, not through other options, but only through a referendum. And if that is the political ambition, which I understand is what the Foreign Minister is expressing and which a majority in the Danish Parliament will write into the comments on the bill, yes, then I simply do not understand why the legally binding guarantee is not given by writing it directly into the bill. That is why we have tabled the two amendments, Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I would therefore strongly recommend that the Danish Parliament backs them, particularly in order to be able to maintain and signal clearly to the public that this guarantee gives the majority of the Folketing, of course, to the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142926	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510142930	I would just like to ask the rapporteur, and thank him for the opening speech here, whether it also plays a role for the Enhedslisten, that over the years in Danish EU policy we have seen that changing governments have moved more and more power away from Denmark, in that the Danish veto in a number of areas has been abolished sometimes in referendums, sometimes not in referendums. Does it also play a role in the Enhedslisten that this is what has happened and that is why you want to have a legally viable guarantee from the government today, which also holds on to the long track?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143005	That is quite clear. We have also seen this in a Supreme Court ruling in relation to the Treaty of Lisbon, that is, that there is the possibility of transferring sovereignty without necessarily doing so in a referendum. It has also been quite clear from the guarantees given that the European Union should not interfere in labour market policy. There we now see a demand for an EU minimum wage. So it is clear that there has been a slip and that there is the engine of EU cooperation that there is a desire for further integration. Those who drive that engine are precisely the European Commission and the European Parliament, and especially the large countries, and here we are talking about Germany, France and Italy. So you should of course notice when they send such a clear signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143049	Sir. Peter Skaarup? No. Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143054	We are called politically naive because we do not read the reports that are coming. Then I do not know whether the rapporteur is a little bit politically tone-deaf, when you do not at the same time see that there are 13 countries that have said that they are opposed to this abolition of the right of veto. So I would just like to start by asking whether the rapporteur is aware of this, firstly, and secondly, whether the rapporteur is sure that what is actually proposed is also that we should abolish the right of veto and have the possibility of majority voting when it comes to sending Danish soldiers. So, does the rapporteur know that this is what is being proposed? Because that is exactly what is being rejected by experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143140	First of all, there is no doubt about the very clear signal being sent by the President of the Commission, the President of Parliament, the French President, the German Chancellor and the Italian Prime Minister, but it is clear that this presupposes the creation of a Convention which will set up some changes to the Treaties and, of course, we cannot know for sure by then what that will mean. But I just think it's striking too. Now I have seen one of the slogans that are being used, and that is that we must have unity rather than reservations, and I do not know whether what the 13 countries so recommend is that we should have our own reservations about the desire for further development that the leading countries and the largest countries of EU cooperation want. So if you want to enter into this with the removal of the defence reserve, because that is the surest guarantee of not participating in this cooperation, then you also say with the signal that you do not actually want to be part of the cohesion, but instead have a new reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143236	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143239	No, because there will be no need for a reservation when one insists that there will be unanimity because a number of countries refuse to move to multi-vote. My second question, to which I was not given an answer, was whether the rapporteur believes that this will be done in the field of defence when it comes to the deployment of soldiers, in other words whether the rapporteur believes that all other EU countries want other countries to be able to decide whether or not to send out their forces. But if you are in doubt, you could look at what has been proposed in the past, and that is one of the issues. on human rights violations and sanctions, some of which then propose that majority voting should be possible there, for which there is no majority. However, this is one of the things that Enhedslisten himself has strongly advocated, in other words, several decisions on sanctions against Russia. But is this about sending soldiers or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143325	In fact, I think I replied to that before, because just as Mrs Sophie Callesen does not yet know what that is actually going to mean, of course I do not know either. After all, what we can do is listen to the signals coming from the leading forces of EU cooperation, and with regard to what it actually does, we will have to wait for the process that will be in relation to a convention. However, it is very good to say that there are 13 countries that do not want it here, but there are so evidently 14 countries that want it, including the largest EU countries, and that is why I believe that we also need to take stock of whether this means that we will have a reservation in relation to what the leading countries and the major countries of EU cooperation want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143401	The next question is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143404	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. In the SF, we're preoccupied with what it is that we need this defence cooperation for if we get into it. And I hear the press is, too. They are asking a little about which military missions the yes-party groups could, in particular, imagine we should be part of. But I have thought about a question that I would like to ask Enhedslisten in the same context. If one imagined that we in Denmark would vote in favour of entering European defence cooperation and that European defence cooperation would in future create a stabilising mission in Ukraine, will the Enhedslisten vote in favour or against such a mission?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143457	Of course, the Enhedslisten will support a stabilising mission in Ukraine. I think that is quite obvious, and I do not quite understand why we have to go through that whole series of thoughts about what if. Of course, we must support the mission in Ukraine if it is to be a sort of multilateral force. Denmark can then participate without any problems at all. When we look at the missions that Denmark could participate in around the world, there are a large number of UN missions that we refrain from participating in. Why don't we back them up? Why is the government not listening when the Enhedslisten proposes that we offer to assist with mine clearance in Bosnia? Then you say no. It has nothing to do with the defence reserve. It has something to do with political will. So in relation to the political will: of course we must participate. And I will find it very difficult to imagine that Denmark will not be able to contribute to a stabilising effort in Ukraine when the happy day arises, that there will be a peace process that we can get started and a negotiated solution that we can defend.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143601	The rapporteur says: why do we not support UN efforts? Now it is in this way that when the European Union makes efforts, it is also rooted in the principles of the United Nations. But that's not what I asked. And I was a little confused by the rapporteur's response, because I understand that the Enhedslisten would like to support a stabilising mission in Ukraine. But do you want to support it, even if it is perhaps the European Union that makes it? If the EU is making a stabilising mission in Ukraine and Denmark is involved in European defence cooperation, are we also voting in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143637	Well, this is such a rather strange question, because then there will have to be some strong forces who want EU countries alone to be allowed to participate in this mission. I'm just having a really hard time imagining that. I find it very difficult to imagine that, if there are willing countries that would like to help ensure peace and stability, we should insist that some countries should not be allowed to participate in it. If there is a willingness to participate in such a mission, Denmark will, of course, be able to participate in it. Why wouldn't you do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143706	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143710	It is not, of course, because we are not allowed for the other EU countries, it is because we must not because of our Danish reservations. I mean, doesn't the reservation mean anything? Can we just take part in what we want? No, the reservation forbids us to participate in military missions in the European Union. Now I got a little angry, but I actually got up to say something really, really nice about Enhedslisten. After all, we have parties in here who are trying to convince the people that this is a choice between the European Union and NATO. It's not. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says: the EU and NATO are two sides of the same coin. What we do is different, we have different members. But we complement each other. I would like to pay tribute to Enhedslisten, for Enhedslisten speaks quite plainly. The unitary list does not want the EU or NATO. I think that's liberating. As it says in Enhedslisten's party program: "We fight militarism and work for Danish withdrawal from NATO. We are in favour of the Danish military being decommissioned... ■ It is a clear speech, and I would like to commend the Enhedslisten for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143805	I really don't think there was a question, and if that's the case, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen wants to have a debate on the future security situation in Europe and the role of both the European Union and NATO, as well as defence and armaments, I would like to take it. I just think that we owe it to the Danish people that when what we are discussing is the question of whether we should abolish the Danish defence reserve, perhaps that is what we should be discussing. The second debate I would like to take with you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143833	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143835	We also owe it to the Danish people to tell us that right now there is someone on the platform who wants Denmark to be withdrawn from NATO and who wants us not to participate in the EU's defence policy cooperation at a time when there is war in Ukraine. I suppose we also owe it to the Danish people to tell us who it is that stands on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament right now. It is a person who wants the Danish military decommissioned. I say you're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143900	Well, I'm gonna have to look around. I don't know who that is, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen refers to. I don't know when sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has experienced that Enhedslisten has made proposals that we should resign from NATO or that the Danish defence should be shut down now and here. I can read many things about what people have said in the past, and I also have that in my briefcase. I am most interested in dealing with how to conduct specific policies. The Enhedslisten has not proposed that Denmark withdraw from NATO. That would be pretty absurd in the current security policy situation. That is why we can afford to have a critical attitude towards NATO and the role that NATO has played in the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143937	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510143940	Thank you, President. I should just like to ask, in relation to what the rapporteur said about the guarantee or the promise made by the government on future treaty changes, whether the rapporteur can give some examples of the fact that the Social Democracy, and perhaps also other pro-European parties in the Folketing, have used the right of veto in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144005	Indeed, there are a number of examples of what has happened in the past, and that is also why it is absolutely crucial that, when it comes to people's reservations about the development of a military dimension in the European Union, we ensure that people's reservations are respected and that the government and the Folketing also give that guarantee by writing it directly into the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144028	In those cases, and an example could perhaps be the most recent Treaty revision of the Treaty of Lisbon, which is applicable today, I would like to hear whether the rapporteur will just comment on whether the Social Democrats voted at that time to do so by means of a referendum or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144043	Yes, it is quite right, and I also mentioned in my speech, that, in relation to the use of the Treaty of Lisbon, we also have the Supreme Court's judgment that it is quite evident that that possibility exists. That is why it is also so crucial that we ensure that this guarantee is written directly into the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144101	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144105	How wonderful it would be if we were to abolish the right of veto which lies in foreign and security policy in the European Union. This would mean seriously taking citizens seriously as Europeans and not just as Danes, Germans and Dutch, so that the European Union is not always discussed on a national premise, but, in fact, on a premise that is about the European continent and when it comes to foreign and security policy, that we are defending our interests in all its facets. When I take the view that it is clear that I cannot vote in favour of the Enhedslisten proposal. Unfortunately, however, with the attitude I have, I do not see that this is the way it is developing, i.e. the way Enhedslisten anticipates it. For there is, of course, a very large majority in this Parliament that stands by maintaining this right of veto, and that can only be changed if all the countries of the European Union agree. Will Mr. Peder Hvelplund does not admit that it is Denmark itself that decides whether to move from unanimity to majority decisions, and not Ursula von der Leyen or others?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144222	It is clear that if it is the case that it passes into supranationalism, then there must be either a five-sixth majority, or it must be adopted in a referendum. And that is why, if there is such widespread agreement, I think it would be extremely sensible for it to be written directly into the legislation so that there will be no doubt about it. Nor can I understand why there should be any opposition to it if the intention is so clear. And I can also listen to Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, that Mr. Jens Rohde, far along the way, agrees with the signals sent by the Commission and from Germany and France. However, I would just like to remind you that when we talk about what we are voting on now, it is not a European army or all sorts of ideas about what this is going to turn into. Then it is a question of the concrete actions that are currently in place, and it is not, of course, a question of developing human rights or anything else. I believe that there are seven active actions now taking place primarily in Africa, all of which have a relatively dubious character and which are primarily concerned with safeguarding the EU's commercial interests. And that is also just the message we have to give to the people, so that is actually what we are voting on whether we want to participate in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144330	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144336	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur speaks of political naivety in this vote. I think that the political naivety is that we do not recognise that there is a new security policy situation in Europe and that this is a new situation we are talking about here and that political naivety is that we do not recognise that Russia is an enemy of the rest of Europe. That is also what we have seen in the past that Enhedslisten has spoken about. That is why I have to ask: how does the Enhedslisten think we have to defend ourselves in Europe? Is it about to resign from NATO? Does it know that Denmark will not be part of NATO and the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144424	It is, after all, a very welcome interest that has arisen in the policy of Enhedslisten. That is just not what we are discussing in this Chamber today. But, of course, there is a new security policy situation, of course, Russia's illegal, illegal, totally attacking invasion of Ukraine has helped to change the security policy picture. I fully agree with that. That is why we are donating weapons to Ukraine to support the legitimate resistance of the Ukrainian Government against the Russian aggressor. That is why we are making severe sanctions against Russia. It could have been hoped that the will to hit Russia would have been present among several parties in the Folketing, so that we had not entered into agreements with Putin on gas supplies. But it just has nothing to do with the abolition of the defence reserve. It is about taking part in military actions outside the EU's borders, primarily in Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144516	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144518	But then, sir... Peder Hvelplund recognizes that when statements are made on the part of Ursula von der Leyen and Macron, then 13 countries say that no, we do not want to do that, and that in reality it is just an expression of how the European Union works, like all sorts of other democracies, and not like Russia, but that it is actually talking about things. And this has no place on earth, and that is why treaty changes are not necessary. - Sir... Peder Hvelplund accept that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144557	It almost reminds us of the referendum on the EU package back in 1986, when Poul Schlüter said that when we vote 'yes' on Thursday, the EU Union is dead. And if that is the case with the same certainty that the ideas about a common military dimension in the European Union are also stone dead, after the reports coming from Macron, from von der Leyen, from Metsola, from Draghi, from Scholz, then I think you are politically naive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144626	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144630	Thank you. I would just like to go back to what I think the rapporteur originally mentioned, and that is that we can see that there can be a slip, the classic slip, that it may be that there will no longer be a right of veto. However, does the rapporteur agree that if something is to be changed in the Treaty and one should move from unanimity to majority voting, then unanimity among the Member States and also ratification among all the Member States?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144702	Yes, it is quite clear, and I will by no means reject that, and that is also why I am saying that what we are dealing with now is a matter of defence cooperation in the European Union today and whether it is something that we want to participate fully and fully in. And that is what we are voting on, and that is the reservation on which we will vote on 1 June. My point is that, when the other things are raised, we have to acknowledge that we have an obligation as parliamentarians here in Denmark to relate to what this development is on the way. And just to stand by and say that it will never happen when, well enough, it is the most benchmarking forces in Europe that say it, I do not think it is to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144736	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144739	This can be seen from the rapporteur's point of view. But you could also turn it around and ask: do you ever think that Macron and the French defence will submit to bureaucrats in Brussels? I think that's very hard to imagine. That is also why we have this matter of unanimity, and we have the possibility of vetoing it. Thirteen other countries have also submitted this. But what has just been read this morning is indeed a citizen's proposal that has also been made. Because we have had that conference on the future of Europe, and these are also some other areas where it can be said that both the beauty and the challenge of the right of veto, for example. is in relation to the rule of law. But we have to say that we have unanimity and veto rights, and that is what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144828	You can imagine a lot of things, and I don't know what it's gonna end up with. So, I have heard that Scholz believes that it is an EU army that should be subject to the European Parliament. That may not be likely either. There are other forces in relation to what Macron has proposed. My point is that, if you just say that it will never happen, even if the most leading forces in the European Union want it, although this is probably going to mean that there will be a convention, then you do not think that you are taking your task seriously. Of course you have to deal with it. After all, it is the largest countries in the EU that represent a fairly large proportion of the population, and that is something you have to listen to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144901	The next brief remark is to Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144908	Thank you. I usually know the rapporteur as a wise man, at least on other political issues. But I am simply in doubt as to whether Mr. Peder Hvelplund understands what the reservation is. This is a little in line with the SF's rapporteur's question. Let's imagine it's gonna be a yes. There is agreement within the European Union that a peacekeeping force is to be sent to Ukraine. Can Denmark take part in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510144933	Now, of course, I am also familiar with the rapporteur from the Corona Management, and it is clear that if we had to deal with corona solely on the basis of a what if-approach, it is possible that the handling would have looked different. In other words, the rapporteur is absolutely right; if it is the case that an action in Ukraine must be based solely on what is covered by the EU defence reserve and that it insists that Denmark cannot participate in other ways, no, then Denmark cannot participate. I'm just having a really hard time seeing what the rationale should be in it. Why should one wish to ensure that Denmark could not participate? If Denmark has a expressed desire to participate, why should it not be ensured that a bilateral cooperation is made so that Denmark could also contribute, just as we have done in Ukraine from 2014?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145024	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145025	Yeah, why wouldn't you? It's because Mr. Peder Hvelplund insists that it be so. That's sir. Peder Hvelplund, who insists on this reservation, and that is why we are in this absolutely insane situation that Norway and Brazil and Turkey, which are not members of the European Union, participate in EU-led missions around the world. - Sir... Peder Hvelplund does not see that it is absolutely absurd that we, as a member of the European Union, cannot be involved in some missions that we can say from time to time, while there are countries outside the European Union that actually have the opportunity to participate in these missions? That is absolutely absurd. Is Mr. Peder Hvelplund doesn't agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145109	I think it's very strange. Sir. Martin Geertsen is inventing some dimensions in a future that is not yet here and says that we should be able to participate in them. But they are not there yet, and no one is saying that we will not be able to participate. On the other hand, there are some missions today taking place in Africa in relation to training the Libyan Coast Guard, which is systematically committing human rights violations in relation to the Central African Republic, where an EU battalion is being used by the Wagner Group today. That is what we are dealing with today. That is what we are voting on. And then, sir... Martin Geertsen has all sorts of ideas about how the world will evolve in the future. My point is: If Denmark wants to take part in the peacekeeping action in Ukraine, I find it very difficult to see that someone should have an interest in preventing Denmark from doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145151	The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145156	Thank you. I sit and get a little confused about what the rapporteur says, and especially about what the rapporteur is replying to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll on her question about how to make Treaty changes in the European Union at all. There is the answer: let us not talk about something we have to decide in the future, but about what we have to decide now, in other words whether we should take part in defence and security policy cooperation. But is the amendment tabled by Enhedslisten not about something that will be invented in the future? Because the fact that some people are advocating Treaty changes does not mean that Treaty changes are being implemented, and there has to be unanimity in order to make such major treaty changes. So is it not Enhedslisten himself who invents something in the future that has little to do with today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145239	No, what we are proposing is precisely that a guarantee should be given if Article 42 is amended. 2 on the common defence of the European Union, so that it goes from unanimity to majority voting, and also on whether all or part of military cooperation does so. So it is just to ensure that, with any developments that may take place, the people have a guarantee that the reservations that the people have been given will continue to be maintained. And I can quite understand that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist gets a little confused, because we are talking about two different tracks. The one track is about the situation that is here now, which is about what we should join in and what actions the European Union is carrying out today that we would like to take part in the fight against migration in Libya? Is it in the Central African Republic? Is it in Mozambique? Is it in Mali? Are these the actions which, in my view, are rather questionable? And then there's the other clue that's about what it is that this collaboration is developing into.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145345	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145347	After all, the rapporteur is doing the same thing again: he is mixing things up, that is, whether it is about what we are deciding today, or about something that Enhedslisten imagines will happen in the future. What is important to ask ourselves is whether, if you want to help develop the security and defence policy dimension in Europe, you do so by participating in cooperation, or if you do so by saying it by everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145413	There's complete consistency in this. With regard to the reservation, the greatest security that the population has is to be able to maintain the reservation, the point is that if the unhappy should happen, if there is a majority in favour of the reservation being abolished, then we give the guarantee that is written directly into the law, that if there is the development that I can hear there is widespread agreement that we should not be part of, then the population will also be asked in that situation. In this way it will not just be a majority of the people who can at the time abolish it here or connect Denmark to the military dimension.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145449	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145452	Thank you. A question was just asked as to whether the fact that we could perhaps move from veto to majority was not a little indifferent. Then I have to say: the government does not believe that this is not going to happen. Nevertheless, the government says that it would like to be included in the comments, not in the legislative text itself, but in the comments. It doesn't bat at all. Well, it's just trying to fool people. After all, people aren't that stupid. That is not legally applicable if you include it in the comments. But that must nevertheless mean that the government has some concern that this could happen, since it is said after all: okay, then we write it into the comments. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145537	Yeah, I kind of agree with that. I also think, when you listen to the debate, that it sounds as if there is complete agreement that this will require a referendum. That is why I do not understand why you do not want to give it security and write it directly into the legislative text, so it is legally binding. It is clear that we cannot commit future Parliament to some decisions here. It will always be possible to change that, but if it is directly in the legislative text, it will, after all, require a review of the law if you want to take that right from the people again. That is why there is only greater certainty in writing it directly into the legislative text rather than just leaving it in the remarks, which is a political declaration of intent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145615	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145618	Yes, but it can also be said that what happened yesterday in relation to the comments and attitudes of the decision-makers, the major decision-makers in the European Union and in the large countries, makes it even more uncertain. I have to say that I think the government and the support parties have actually moved on thin ice. You couldn't have done that. I mean, what you've been trying to pin this on has been Ukraine. This is neither from nor against Ukraine, and I simply think it is untasteful that it has been fixed on the unhappy situation in Ukraine. There is, of course, a real possibility that this could be a 'no', and then I do not believe and hope that a referendum will be proposed again immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145701	Well, I completely agree that this has absolutely nothing to do with the situation in Ukraine. In other words, there has been total agreement that we must support the legitimate resistance of the Ukrainian Government to the illegal occupation of the Russian aggressor. There is complete agreement that we must support both emergency aid, reconstruction and civilian action, and that we must, of course, also tighten up sanctions against Russia. We can make that reservations or not. This has nothing to do with the abolition of the EU defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145735	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked to speak, is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510145748	Thank you, President. The most remarkable thing about this second reading is, in fact, how few rapporteurs have the opportunity to say anything. On 1 June there is a risk that the Danes will take the most landmark decision on Danish defence policy, at least in the time we have had democracy in Denmark, and that the only people who intend to speak at second reading are those who warn against voting yes and say that we must stick to the reservation. Unfortunately, it completely matches what some of us experienced a little earlier when we had Question Time with the Prime Minister: Only the undersigned chose to ask about this theme. It's like it's something that needs to be packed out of the way. It is as if it is something you would rather not have to disturb the Danes too much before it is really serious; before a decision is taken. And that despite the fact that one third of the Danes still say they are in doubt. However, a member of the Folketing calls for a special interest, Mr. Jens Rohde, who in many respects lights up like the one who dares to say things in a free and sincere way. And now I am not just thinking of how he said just a few moments ago that he thought it was quite natural to do what the EU system would like to do; abolish the right of veto. No, of course I am thinking of the chronicle he, together with the then President of the European Movement, Erik Boel, wrote back in November 2012 in Berlingske Tidende, where he wrote: It was a chronicle that had political consequences. It came to pass that Mr. Jens Rohde couldn't be the leading candidate for the Left party then. That did not prevent him from becoming a member of the Radical Left and, I believe, several other parties afterwards. But it does say a lot that Mr. After all, Jens Rohde is a man who dares to speak out plainly. I wonder where he got it. Yes, he might have had it from his time in the European Parliament. For the adoption which we received from the so-called citizens' hearing a few days ago, which very clearly states that we want a united defence and which very clearly states that in foreign policy we want to get rid of the right of veto, has recently been voted on in the European Parliament, not only accepting the amendments that have been tabled, but also calling for a convention to be convened now. That the Assembly should be convened to amend the Treaties with a view to abolishing the right of veto. It is actually strange how little we have heard of the Danish members of this conference on the future of Europe. I've heard a rumor that both Mrs. Eva Kjær, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, sir. Jens Joel and Mr. Kim Valentin has participated in the work. And the more puzzled you must be when you do not see that none of them have so heroically fought against these desires to remove the right of veto which takes the opportunity to take the floor today. Do not put your light under a bushel. We'd love to hear about your work! But maybe the truth is that this work can lie in a pretty small place. And perhaps that is why when the European Parliament is now asking for a convention to be convened, it is because, under Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union, it only requires a simple majority to convene a convention. And I quote from paragraph 1. If, after consulting the European Parliament and the Commission, the European Council adopts by a simple majority a decision to examine the proposed amendments, the President of the European Council shall convene a Convention composed of representatives of national parliaments, the Heads of State or Government of the Member States, the European Parliament and the Commission. So a simple majority. Now we got the number from Mr. Kim Valentin, I think, when he took part in the debate earlier for a moment. Did 13 countries say no? Then it must be 14 countries that say 'yes', and we know that it is at least the large countries that vote 'yes'. Can we not take the view that there is a simple majority in favour of convening a convention? The Danes should know that. We should know that, immediately after 1 June, the whole process formulated by the Treaty to amend the Treaties and to bring new things into the Treaty will be set in motion in order to change the voting procedures. Then the government just says, "Well, we're just voting no." We are opposed to removing the right of veto. But what is just so annoying about that argument, and what makes it so difficult to trust is not just that the four employees from the Folketing seem to have had little impact. It is also that the same position has been taken in the past. When the Lisbon Treaty was adopted in 2017, 19 areas of the veto were removed, by the way without a referendum. And how was it actually the Treaty of Lisbon was born? Yes, it did happen to have created a constitution for Europe, which the French and the Dutch were brave enough to submit to a referendum and where the French and the Dutch said no. Then the Lisbon Treaty was made, as Valéry Giscard d'Estaing said, for ninety-nine percent was the same treaty. And it was then adopted without a referendum. That is where the right of veto was removed. With the Treaty of Nice in 2001: removed the right of veto. 1998 Amsterdam Treaty: removed veto rights. 1993 Maastricht Treaty: removed the right of veto. And in 1986 that was the whole idea of it: removed the right of veto. So a whole series of decades in which the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Conservative People's Party, sometimes the SF, it swings slightly and always the faithful Radical Left has fought to remove the right of veto. And now it is said that a political guarantee will be given. Perhaps as opposed to a legal guarantee. We've heard that before. I remember that former Prime Minister Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen from this platform stood and said that it was before the legal vote that he gave a political guarantee of foreign policy until the sun burned out I do not know if the Foreign Minister gives the same guarantee, but it would then have a glimpse of fun, since we saw that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen thus burned out something earlier than the sun, and that the political guarantee he then gave is worth nothing today. And that we are likely to say that the same will probably apply to the current Foreign Minister. He seems healthy and healthy. A young man, in full wisdom, who has served his military service in the European Parliament and whom I am sure will face a great future, perhaps even his EU Commissioner or something else handsome, when he has done his proselytes a service by removing the Danish reservations. However, we must give him the fight to the line. But he's probably gonna burn out sometime. And the problem with his burning out is that he burns his promises. The only way that the Danes can have a valid belief that they are actually being asked if we come back to the situation where the EU parties want to remove the right of veto without asking the Danes is by voting through the amendments tabled today by the Enhedslisten, the New Civil and Danish People's Party. So in a few minutes we'll have the moment of truth. It's a good thing there's an audience, this is Danish history. Then we will see whether you really mean it • whether you really mean it • when you say that the Danes should be asked about future treaty changes. I look forward to seeing it because the absence of speakers on this platform today speaks its clear language. And that is not encouraging for either the Foreign Minister's party or the other EU parties. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150637	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur and the first is to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150643	It's just a brief comment. I simply think it is under all the criticism of attacking colleagues who are involved in serious political work in the European Union and almost implying fraud. I think that should be taken care of from upstairs. That's all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150701	Thank you for your comment. I think it is appropriate that, if the Folketing sends out four colleagues to do a job and the work goes against everything that the Folketing seems to think, namely the abolition of the right of veto, then the four Members ask them to explain what they have actually done to prevent it. I guess it's very natural. All Members of the High Things have had the opportunity today to take the floor, but we will have a third reading in a moment, and then it may be that the four Members will be comfortable up here and say something about what they have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150728	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150731	Thank you for your kind words, sir. Morten Messerskommentar was my best enemy on EU issues. That is the way it is, and that is fine, because, as you know, consensus makes sense. But I just want us to keep our tongues straight in our mouths compared to what's here, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Because the idea of a convention is something the European Parliament has been asking for all the time we sat there, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, in fact, also became a reality. So there is nothing new in the fact that the European Parliament means it, and we cannot blame other members of the Folketing for that. But the fact that it is agreed in the European Parliament that there should be a Convention, and it is after all the Convention that can be decided by the simple majority, is not the same as the fact that a simple majority can decide to amend Article 24 of the Treaty on European Union, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can then look up the question which clearly states that foreign and security policy is adopted unanimously. I say it is more difficult, but the fact is that it is in the Treaty, and that is why unanimity is required if this provision of Article 24 is to be amended; that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150852	Well, I totally agree, at least in relation to the process content, as Mr. Jens Rohde told me. What is at stake is that when you change the Treaty, it starts with a convention. I note that there is a desire for this Convention, not only in the European Parliament, but also in the European Commission, at least on the basis of the statements that I feel convinced that the whole of the Danish civil service has been on the line to get on the ground in that declaration with the 13 countries. It has certainly not been possible to have a blocking minority among them in order to prevent it in the Council. When such a convention comes into play, all sorts of exciting ideas from yes, allow me to say Mr. Jens Rohde's former federalist colleagues in the European Parliament... Guy Verhofstadt and other festive types, of course, come into play. And I am convinced that when the work we have had here, where we have had four elected Members of Parliament, has come to the conclusion that the right of veto will be removed, it will probably also be included in the final compromise that the Convention is putting forward. Whether it is adopted or not adopted, we do not know, but we know for sure that if the amendment we have tabled is not adopted today, there is no guarantee for the Danes that they will be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510150959	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151000	But sir... Morten Messerschmidt is not well aware that this is going to be very, very speculative and that the confusion is a little bit sought between the simple majority required to convene the Convention when the European Parliament has a majority and then the amendment of Article 24, which is very explicit, very explicit and it requires unanimity to change that decision and if a majority in this House, Mr President, is in favour of it, then we shall be voting against it. Morten Messerschmidt says no to amending Article 24 of the Treaty, it cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151046	I don't understand, sir. Jens Rohde's skepticism. If I may just read the first passage in Article 24: the competence of the Union in the field of the common foreign and security policy covers all foreign policy areas as well as all matters relating to the security of the Union, including the gradual framing of a common defence policy which may lead to a common defence. It's almost the realization of it, sir. Jens Rohde wrote himself 10 years ago. And I quote: 'It is a hole in the head and a huge waste of resources that the 27 EU countries each have their own defences. So I'm kind of standing there and warning you, but I'm talking about a possibility that Mr. Jens Rohde here can get his way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151121	The next brief remark is on Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151125	Well, I just want to comment on the insinuations that are then not directed at me, as I am fortunate or unfortunately not being appointed to the conference on the future of Europe, i.e. that the jaspers are kind of just lazy, because they do not go to the platform during a different treatment to get a video for social media. I just want to ask, does Mr. Mr Messerschmidt himself was on the Committee on European Affairs, where there has also been an opportunity to discuss the outcome of the conference on the future of Europe? I understand that there aren't quite as many viewers for those meetings, but there's a camera on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151158	No, I will send the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I'm not accusing these four members of being lazy. I would love if they were lazy, I would hope that all my political opponents were insanely lazy. I'm accusing them of cheating. I accuse them of saying one thing in Denmark: they are opposed to qualified majority voting, but do not lift a finger in the EU system to fight it. That's what I'm accusing them of. That is precisely why I am invoking whether they cannot just put forward what is on the platform, or if it is the social media that Mrs Sophie Callesen prefers, it is fine for me where it is, the four Danish parliamentarians who come from the parties who have made this compromise have worked against the passage and the areas of the conclusions where it is said, firstly, that you want to have a common EU defence, and secondly, that it must be based on qualified majority voting. I guess that's not too much to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151256	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151257	I think so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt could be cleared up if he spoke to the rapporteurs concerned or appeared at the European Committee meetings, where, if that were the case, one would also have the opportunity to be replaced. But I'm actually just gonna ask you if mr. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes that he has a hold on his accusations that the rapporteurs have not done their job or have not worked against it? Did Mr. Morten Messerschmidt proof of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151322	No, of course I haven't. I would recommend that you have heard what I said just now. What I am saying is that if it is so central to the parties that are now seeking to abolish the reservation of defence to hold onto the right of veto, and the piece of paper that is the product of this work, where four Danish Members of Parliament have been sitting, concludes the opposite, and the four Danish Members of Parliament come from parties that are part of the compromise that says they want to hold onto the right of veto, it would surely be very natural to take the floor today, when it has played such a central role.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151356	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Are there any other rapporteurs who would like to speak? There isn't. Does the Foreign Minister wish to speak on the amendments before the vote or on the third reading? For the third reading. Good! That is why no more people wish to speak at second reading on the amendments, and that is why we are now going to vote on the amendments. I'll just wait a minute until everyone finds their seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151455	Amendments to L 193 are now being voted on and Amendment No 1 will first be voted on. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, NB and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 24 (EL, DF, NB, LA (by mistake), FG and UFG), against 76 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, NB and Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour 22 (EL, DF, NB, FG and UFG), against 79 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 2 is rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Morten Messerschmidt (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 21 (EL, DF, NB, FG and UFG), against 79 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 3 is rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 outside the report by Mr. Morten Messerschmidt (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 11 (DF, NB and UFG), against voting 78 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA and KD), abstention 12 (EL, FG, ALT). Amendment No. 4 are rejected. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510151659	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. We will take a short break and the next meeting will be held today at 1 p.m. 15.30.
