ParlaMint-DK_20220210100002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 127 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Danish citizenship. Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn): Bill No. L 128 (Proposal for a law amending the law on animal testing and the law on cloning and genetic modification of animals, etc.) Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 129 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Chemicals. Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 85 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of electoral federations for parliamentary elections), motion for a resolution No. B 86 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the separation of CO2 motions for resolutions No. B 88 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the sound recording of interviews in asylum cases). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 87 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the expulsion of foreigners helping illegal foreigners in Denmark). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). On 9 February 2022 the Committee on the Rules of Procedure presented a report on certain aspects of the use of motions for resolutions in the parliamentary work and the parliamentary debate on motions for resolutions (Report No. 11). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100126	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 39 by Rasmus Stoklund (S), Morten Dahlin (V), Marcus Knuth (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 65 (S, V, KF and LA), against 39 (DF, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 39 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 38 by Mr Andreas Steenberg (RV) and Mr Rosa Lund (EL), V 40 by Mr Carl Valentin (SF) and proposals for adoption No. V 41 of Sikandar Siddique (FG) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100228	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100245	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), against 10 (DF), abstentions 0. The proposal was adopted and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100308	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100325	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100347	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100403	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100423	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100438	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 57 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), against voting 46 (V, DF, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100503	No amendments have been tabled. I understand that sir. Henning Hyllested wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210100518	Thank you. I think I would have followed the vote with a few words. It is mostly because, when considering the motion for a resolution to pause the Lynetteholm project, we have asked a shower of questions, well helped by the Danish People's Party, which has also asked a large number of really relevant questions. I will not go through the answers very carefully, but we think that they clearly show that it is deeply problematic to launch a project at this stage. The answers reflect that there are still major uncertainties about the project. If you look at the answers that have come to Questions 5 and 32, then the storm flood protection in Copenhagen really increases the danger of that until a dockport is put in in many, many years. Until then, there is in fact an increased risk of flooding from storm floods. And then, in fact, the calculations do not take into account actual storm floods, as we saw with the Bodilstorm a few years ago. And one also ignores completely the storm river plan prepared by the City of Copenhagen in 2017 which was without Lynetteholm because then the idea of Lynetteholm apparently did not exist at all. This has also not been taken into account or taken into account. In relation to the Øresund, we now know that, in agreement with Sweden, a review of model calculations is under way. This is clear from the answers to questions 36 and 37. We know that the model calculations are on the right track, and there we may think that it is very reasonable to wait for the project instead of just getting started and setting it off when you do not actually have full clarity about what this means for the Øresund salt content, flow rate and such things. In relation to land disposal, which is the very big discussion in connection with Lynetteholm, we can look at the answers to questions 33 and 34 and for that matter also questions 60 and 52, that you build your assessments and calculations on the construction activity that has been in Copenhagen for the last 4-5 years. And of course it shows that with Lynetteholm there is a great need for land. But to build its calculations on a construction activity that has been extremely high in Copenhagen for the past 4-5 years, we think we are reckless; no one knows whether it will continue 30, 40, 50 years in the future. We know that there will be a great need for land that will compete with the Lynetteholm project from the holmen in Hvidovre, from the storm flood protection from the south, from some climate protection with dykes that Copenhagen Airport is in the process of. We can see from the answer to question 34, that there is not yet a strong insecurity once again. And we know from the answer to question 60 that the Ministry of the Environment is engaged in a national climate adjustment plan to be discussed with the Danish Parliament's parties and where a storm river model is to be concluded for Copenhagen. Okay, how about waiting until it is available and for the discussions there so that an assessment of land needs is awaited? We have asked in question 50 whether the Minister will give a guarantee that land will not be imported in order to meet the need for land to Lynetteholm. We can't get that guarantee. So maybe we're about to sail land here from other countries. The strategic environmental assessment, which is being prepared, should also be on the right track. What, then, about waiting for it to arrive? It will provide some clarity instead of just getting started and getting it started? In relation to the economy, the whole of this project is, of course, the condition that it rests in itself. But we have started with a budget overrun on what is called the perimeter, i.e. the artificial peninsula, which then has to be filled up. There we have started with a budget overrun. We can see from the answer to Question 8 that the Minister will not deny that the taxpayer gets an extra bill, contrary to what is, like, the premise, that this rests in itself. So we think that the answers we have received to a number of the questions we have asked, and also the answers to some of the questions that the Danish People's Party has asked, show that there are still great, great uncertainties about this project. That's why we don't think it's gonna matter that you just paused it and maybe waited a year or two, so you get rid of these uncertainties. And then you can start it if you still think it is a project that is firmly anchored in the Øresund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101042	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101045	It is the case that all major construction projects have some uncertainties. This also applies to the railway tracks that Enhedslisten wants to put in different places in the country. There are also uncertainties. Then, of course, you can increase the uncertainties and repeat them over and over again if you are against the project itself, and that is what Enhedslisten is doing here. One example is Mr. Henning Hyllested's talk about the possibility that during the temporary period of construction of the periphery around Lynetteholm, but not having had the patch fixed yet, there will be the possibility of larger water levels when there is a storm flood in Copenhagen. There were 124 cm higher water levels during the storm Malik. If we had had the fact that the periphery had been built, it would have been 126 cm, i.e. from 124 cm to 126 cm. That's what's guessed here. It's just an example of Enhedslisten using anything and everything that can be pulled into a machine to question a project that Enhedslisten is fundamentally against.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101152	Sir. Henning Hyllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101153	Of course we don't. We are, of course, building it on the information we receive. There are, of course, a great many so-called experts in almost every area: economics, storms and hydrology, I believe that it is called "saying and pointing out that there are these uncertainties, and that the project that we are currently working on, which is supposed to provide storm flood protection, is not a security against storm tide, and certainly not if it comes from the south. It is not a security against storm tide, at least not until a dockport, a lockgate, is installed on the project. It does not take place until the perimeter is built, when the artificial half island is built, i.e. in 30-40 years. But we can expect with the climate change we have seen that before that time we will experience quite a lot of storms. I myself referred to the storm Bodil, which was somewhat stronger than the storm Malik, and there will certainly be many other incidents of the kind that Copenhagen is not adequately protected against during that period.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101249	Sir. Ole Olesen Birk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101250	Well, there are uncertainties about all major construction projects, including the construction projects that Enhedslisten is in favour of... let alone other and even greater visions that Enhedslisten has: the green transition and the ambition that private property should be abolished. Surely there are much, much greater uncertainties associated with it than there are with the construction of Lynetteholm. But Enhedslisten is against Lynetteholm, and therefore Enhedslisten blows up the uncertainties to an extent that Enhedslisten does not do in projects that Enhedslisten is in favour of. But uncertainties are given by projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101324	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101326	No, we don't. We don't blow up the uncertainties. We just point out that they are there and that this project is a so-called mega project that will define Copenhagen's urban development for many years to come. And when the uncertainties are so great, and it is also true of the economy of the project, that you might expect taxpayers in Copenhagen or throughout the country, because the state is involved in this, to have the wallet up because the economy does not last, you have a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101401	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested. There are no more brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101410	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 11 (EL, FG and ALT), against 93 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. There are no more votes, so I ask those who do not wish to take part in the negotiations to leave the Chamber. I would ask that the talks that are still going on outside the Parliamentary Chamber should continue. This also applies to those over there in the series of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101541	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101600	Thank you. The aim of this bill is first and foremost to implement an agreement of June last year on a series of initiatives to prevent children in immigrant families growing up in radicalised environments, experiencing violence in upbringing or being subjected to negative social control. The agreement includes, inter alia: the following initiatives: firstly, that the requirement of good repute is tightened up for persons applying for permanent residence and sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty of at least 60 days in prison for certain offences of the criminal code, such as the provisions of the Criminal Code on re-educational journeys, forced marriages and religious weddings of minors; secondly, to tighten the penalty for repeated violence committed against a child by a person in the child's household or by a person otherwise closely associated with the household; thirdly, to impose sanctions on the benefit system for all persons who have been punished for violence against children in close relationships. In the Social Democratic Party we will not accept that children in immigrant families are more discontented than children with Danish parents, as several studies confirm that they do. This is also apparent from the comments on the draft law. The second part of the bill aims to address challenges related to the payment of repatriation and return aid to foreigners returning to countries to which Danish financial institutions do not carry out financial transactions. In order to deal with the problem, it is proposed to introduce an authorisation clause allowing the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration to lay down detailed rules on the flexible payment of repatriation and return aid. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101727	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Now I have some doubts about the rapporteur of the Left. Well, that's not sir. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, I see. And I don't see the next one either. We're at Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210101757	Thank you, President. In the SF we are deeply concerned about the negative social control exercised against children in some immigrant environments. We cannot accept violence against children or so-called reeducational journeys. All of this is part of the parallel society culture that we must overcome. However, we should not legislate out of the problems in a way that ultimately hurts children more and harms them than the original problems, just to set an example, even though it may be tempting to put hard on these parents. Of course, it is heartbreaking to learn that violence against children is so widespread in some environments. But we are more interested in helping children with the means best for the child, which work rather than making symbolic policies that only make the situation worse for the children. We note that a very large number of credible organisations, which want to protect the best interests and well-being of children, are of the same opinion. Taking financial support from families, which are already under pressure to the utmost, only makes their situation more desperate and can help to strengthen evil spirals. We have no evidence that quarantine systems in performance systems prevent anyone from committing crime or prevent repeat cases. Instead, social measures must be taken massively to ensure that the child is better protected from the violent parent. The bill will prevent a parent who has been convicted of sending a child on an involuntary stay abroad from having family reunification with the other children of the family. Leaving the child's siblings does not ensure the child's well-being and security. In the SF, we still do not believe that the refusal of family reunification is the right choice of sanction in order to avoid negative social control and involuntary travel abroad. Instead, we should try to look at how we can provide municipalities with the right tools to help the children they receive notifications about. This requires social legislation to define when it is an involuntary stay abroad and who can determine whether the stay is involuntarily. Overall, the SF does not believe that this bill does anything good for the children, on the contrary. That is why we are voting 'no'.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210102031	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the next in line I can see in the Chamber is Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210102051	Thank you, President. I'll be brief. This is a really good deal we made with the government and a number of blue parties. This is another step in the direction of hardening negative social control, and this is something one can only be happy to do as much as possible in the context of repatriation and in particular the whole focus on repatriation. And that part I hope the Minister will take very seriously in the future, because fortunately we see a lot of people from Syria, in particular, who want to return to Syria, but the repatriation scheme that exists they cannot make use of because of the sanctions against Syrian banks and various other kinds of bureaucracy. And it sounds a little hollow when we see cases in the press over and over again about people who the Danish state says have to go back to Syria because there is now peace, but who say that it is quite irresponsible and that they cannot, at the same time as there are a lot of Syrians who want to go home voluntarily, some of whom do not do so anyway because of problems with the repatriation scheme. So, as our focus on the foreign area among other things. is that, in particular, the many people who came here during the refugee crisis would like to go home, so the repatriation scheme is very, very important and it must, of course, work. So we look forward to it being made a priority by the Minister. So we are voting in favour of this proposal, and I should like to welcome the new citizens and say that so do the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210102209	Thank you. Then we have returned to Mrs Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210102228	Thank you for the floor, President. Today there is no doubt that in certain immigrant environments there is widespread social control which restricts children and women's freedom to live the life they want. This is totally unacceptable, and we are therefore pleased that the draft law puts us in a tough and consistent position against the practitioners of social control. Those who exercise social control are mostly people with minority backgrounds who have come to Denmark many years ago and who have never adopted the Danish norms and values. But what is even worse is that they also do not want their spouses and their children to do so. They restrict their freedom and deprive them of the opportunity to become an active part of the community, and we, as a liberal party, of course, cannot accept that. It is important that we, as a society, step in and stand firm that our common values, equality, freedom, freedom of expression, should apply to everyone in Denmark. It is not negotiable and, of course, if you do not want to take those values into account or limit others to embrace them, it must have serious consequences. The bill introduces clear rules that protect children from violence and that prevent children from immigrant families from being subjected to negative social control. This is positive, but it is far from sufficient. In this respect, I would also like to point out that the draft law nowhere mentions the many women for whom social control is particularly burdensome, and this is about the many women who want to be beaten, threatened or otherwise driven by their immediate family to renounce fundamental rights. Those women are trying to break free, and they are in a regular freedom struggle where it is with life as an effort. For these women, today's legislative proposals make no way out of the controlled environments, and that is regrettable, because we must punish the social control provider, but at the same time we must also give the victims the real opportunities to break out of the controlled environment. We must do so both for the sake of women and for the sake of children. That is why I also find it problematic that the government is once again picking up a controversial problem because it does not fit in with the Socialist Year wheel. Yes, it has been decided to push the problems ahead to the next elections by setting up another commission. This is not the first time that social control is a problem in immigrant environments; children, but especially women, have fought this battle for a long time, and some may feel that they have fought it very alone. After all, we are not on the brink of understanding the problem. With the 2016 Left National Action Plan, we have gained some good experiences to address these particular challenges. We know what works, and not least we know what we need to do more of. As a liberal party, we are defending the individual's personal freedom and, at the same time, we are convinced that it is better to solve the problems today than tomorrow. So we are ready to negotiate, Minister, because we in the Left cannot in any way tolerate the existence of people in Danish society who are forced to renounce their fundamental rights. With the bill, we will have to deal with the people who exercise social control, and that is why we in the Left, of course, will be voting in favour of the bill, but at the same time I would like to make a strong appeal to the government not to jam the problem further during the current period of government. Let us now call for some negotiations so that we can help the victims out of the controlled environments in which they live. It is also fine in the light of the negotiations we have had on the children first, and so there is no need to wait any longer. I should just like to say that I should like to welcome the Radicals and the Enhedslisten and say that they do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210102623	Thank you for that information and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we go further, and now it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210102638	Thank you and apologize for the delay. Then, when things go so fast, you have to put up with a little exchange of rapporteurs. That's the way it is. I should also like to say on an equal footing with the other parties that the position of the Danish People's Party on this proposal is that we support it. It is good to see that, after all, something is happening in this very, very important area. Penalty for repeated domestic violence against children is being tightened up, rules on the condition of permanent residence are being tightened up, rules on family reunification with children are being extended if the resident is convicted of violence or of sending a child to re-education in the country of origin, and sanctions are being introduced into the benefit system. The initiatives are primarily aimed at immigrant families. There's no hiding that. A study by VIVE unfortunately knew that in families where both parents are immigrants or descendants, more than one in three children have been subjected to harsh upbringing or violence such as slap, slap, or blows within a period of 2 months. It is a lower level when it comes to Danish families, but it should not happen at all. Parents have a great responsibility for the proper upbringing of their children, and in no way does this include a so-called re-education in Islamic values in their country of origin. The fact that violence is used in immigrant families is unfortunately not surprising. It is therefore a good thing that the penalties are being tightened up and that the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits is being reduced for those who cannot find out. The initiatives are necessary. I really hope that they will work as intended and can prevent some of the violence that is taking place. The second part of the draft law addresses the challenges that may arise from the payment of repatriation aid. There are countries where it is difficult to send money because it is subject to international sanctions. It is, of course, a problem that needs to be resolved, otherwise it can prevent more resident foreigners from seeking repatriation aid. We would like to see more people using the system. The more foreigners go home, the better. I understand that it is difficult to find a concrete way of sending the money to a recipient in a sanctioned country, and that is why I think it is all right for the Minister to be given the authority to find a flexible arrangement. And then I assume that the Minister will keep the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration regularly informed of how things are going. When and if the Minister finds a good arrangement, it would be wise to have the scheme regulated by law. I have nothing more to say to the bill, except that the Danish People's Party supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210102922	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments, so now it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210102936	Thank you for the debate on the legislative proposal and for the broad support I can hear on the proposal. As already mentioned, it consists of two parts. The first part deals with the implementation of an agreement from the summer 2021 between the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance on a number of initiatives to protect children from violence and to help prevent children from growing up in radicalised environments or being subjected to social control. It is clear that no one should be subjected to social control, and no one should grow up in homes where there is a risk of their safety and development, and by far the majority of parents, including immigrant parents, are of course as loving in their upbringing as everyone else. They raise without violence and social control. But we must realise that we have underestimated how old-fashioned a culture some have in the backpack when immigrants to Denmark. Some come from countries where, unfortunately, violence in education is still normal. It is not the case that there are no Danes who are violent towards their children; it is there and, of course, it is equally unacceptable. Violence can never be defended and social control can never be defended. We therefore believe that the hammer should fall harder on those who do not look after the children properly, where they should be most safe, namely in their own home, in their own family. We propose to amend the penal code so that the punishment for repeated violence and for abuse or gross violence committed against a child by a person in or closely associated with the child's household is tightened by one third. We also propose to introduce sanctions into the benefit system for anyone who is punished for violence or gross violence against children in close relationships. Specifically, this means that the current quarantine regime for gang criminals is proposed to be extended to this group of people. In addition, we propose to tighten up the formal requirement for applications for permanent residence permits. This would mean that foreigners who are sentenced to an unconditional penalty of at least 60 days in prison for violating the provisions of the Criminal Code on child abductions, re-educational journeys, forced marriages, religious marriages of minors and forced cover would be excluded from obtaining a permanent residence permit. The same requirement of good repute applies in certain cases of marriage and is therefore also proposed here. We also propose to extend the Karen rule in connection with family reunification with children. This would mean that, as a rule, family reunification would not be given to a child for 10 years if the parent or his or her spouse or partner were sentenced to prison for sending another child on a re-educational journey. I would also like to stress that the government has no expectation that this bill alone will solve all the challenges of violence against children and negative social control, but we believe and believe that these are important steps along the way. I will now focus on the second part of the bill. In fact, the draft law also contains an element to enable us to meet some of the challenges of paying aid for repatriation and return aid to foreigners who return to sanctioned countries to which it is difficult to transfer money. on Iran and Syria. The draft law contains a provision allowing detailed rules to be laid down for a more flexible and cash payment of aid to persons returning to Syria and Iraq. In this way we will ensure that the Syrians, in particular, who express their desire to return home with support, continue to be able to do so. Thank you for today's debate on the various initiatives in the legislative proposal. I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103301	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103304	Thank you to the Minister and thank you for a fine deal. If I am going to try to go a little further on what the Minister said at the end with regard to the repatriation scheme, and it has been a while since we made the agreement, I would like to ask: has there been any progress in the implementation of these payments? Now I know the law has not been implemented yet, but I assume the Minister has looked into it further. Or is it the case that when the law is passed, the minister has some solutions on the table so that we do not find ourselves in this absurd situation where there are a lot of Syrians living here in Denmark who would like to go back to Syria themselves but who do not, because the repatriation scheme does not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103341	In 2021, there were indeed record Syrians who chose to repatriate there have never been so many from Syria before and we managed to get the money to the repatriated in the vast majority of cases. That's the positive part. But there is some uncertainty, because it is with weights and trisses, and that is why we need these legislative changes, which I will guess at a temporary solution until we get a more permanent arrangement in place. It is clear that if there are some Syrians who do not get their money paid out, it will have to spread rumor, and then I think we will see fewer who use the system. But so far we can see that for every year that goes by, more and more people are using the scheme, including Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103424	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103425	Thank you. This is precisely the uncertainty that I understand you have if you, as Syrians, live in this country and want to return to Syria, because if you are not quite sure that the system works, it can be a deterrent. But then I just have a more general question for the Minister. As I know, the many Syrians who have returned have not reported that they have been horribly abused or anything else, anything else just it is a country that has been in conflict, but can one use it that there are so many who leave voluntarily, as a lever to get them home, where we say it is safe, but where one refuses to go home?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103500	The short answer is no. For the vast majority of Syrians, their residence permit is extended in Denmark, and they do so on the basis that the authorities have made the individual assessment that they have a need for protection. So the fact that there are some other people who voluntarily choose to go back cannot be used in an asylum case and say: that means you can also go back. It must also be said that when you are repatriated today, you get the small bag of money before you travel, money that you can spend on the expenses you have in connection with the journey, and then when you have been gone for a year, you get the big bag of money. What we are proposing here is that you can get a large bag of money even before you leave, so there will be authorities on the plane in some cases and that you then have no right of withdrawal once you have left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103540	Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103542	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for taking this problem seriously, especially when it comes to violence against children. The Minister then says in his speech that the government would like to solve this problem, and we would like to do so. But when I look at the various consultation responses, I can see that some of the organisations that we in the SF consider very serious, for example. The Danish Social Advisor Association, the Crime Prevention Council, Help Victims of Violence, Save the Child, Lev Without Vold, etc., is critical of these sanctions that the government is imposing. Doesn't that impress the Minister at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103628	Of course, it makes an impression on what consultation parties write in consultation responses. And I understand that if some parents commit something criminal and are thus punished it can be both a punishment for freedom, but it can also be a financial penalty. From the child's perspective, it is not necessarily good, but that does not mean that we should not punish the parents. After all, there must still be a sanction against the parents. We must then find the right balance, and I think the government has found that in the agreement that has now been reached here. But I'm fully aware that if we're going to solve this problem, this is only a tiny part of the solution. I believe that some of the other legislative proposals that we have already adopted, where it is made clear that social control is part of the provision on psychological violence in the criminal code, we are banning religious marriages of minors and hopefully we will soon not have it here with regard to the withdrawal of residence permits when you have been on a re-educational journey and so many of the appropriations that both SF and other parties in the Folketing have helped to secure, for more security consultants, better space in crisis centres, together to help solve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103736	Thank you. Mrs. Halime Oguz, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103737	Thank you. I understand that, but how can financial sanctions be beneficial to children? I simply do not understand that. But will this also mean that the economic sanctions here should also apply to ethnic Danish parents who are violence against their children?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103758	Yeah. There's no difference between what ancestry you have when you're punished with this. Nor do I believe that the real effect of this is that people get the sanction, but it is in the preventive effect that it is with many provisions of the law and the criminal law that the effect lies in the deterrent effect that you cannot then have family reunion with a new child if you have already beaten the child you have. It doesn't help the child you have that you can't bring a new child here, but it might have a preventive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103833	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103834	Thank you. In fact, I would just like to ask the Minister what I said from the Chair and the Minister himself says it in his reply to the SF's rapporteur, namely that this does not solve the whole problem of negative social control. And we have seen the action plan launched by the Left, which makes a lot of good proposals for some new initiatives that could be made, and it also concludes on the current ones. We have also seen, in the wake of the very negotiations on the children First, which are also over with the Minister of Social Affairs, about how you could have a cooperation about it, how you just make some efforts to protect the children, also according to this discussion on sanctions that can happen to children unintentionally. I just have to understand it right: now that we have a lot of good experience to draw on and we have this agreement that we could do things in continuation, will one still wait until, possibly after a choice, before acting on negative social control of women and children?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210103922	No, there will also be further legislative proposals in this Assembly which are about taking action against social control. We have the Commission on Girls and Women's Rights, which the rapporteur himself mentions. In addition, the latest financial laws also provide for additional economics for advice and prevention. But what I am hearing from the Left here is that you have a desire to follow up on the old 2016 action plan too, so shouldn't we just agree that before the sun goes down today, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen has been invited to a cup of coffee in my office? In that case, I think we should see, on the basis of that action plan, whether there are any further initiatives that we can already begin to prepare.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104012	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104013	I'm really glad the Minister says that. That's exactly the answer I wanted. I would very much like to come over to a cup of coffee, because I think it is very important that we also have a look at that action plan, because there are some good efforts to be made. And I have mentioned myself, and I have also heard the Minister mention it, this idea of some sort of exit strategy, and we in the Left are very keen to look at that. This is also one of the things that has been mentioned somewhere in this 2016 action plan. So I would very much like to discuss it; I think it is very, very important that this agreement is good, but that it cannot stand alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104037	Well, I just want to say quite briefly that this dialogue may also reflect that the government in the last financial laws has negotiated with the Enhedslisten and SF and the Radical Left and the Alternative, and most recently also with the Christian Democrats, and that some of the actions that have been taken, among other things. in the exit area, yes, so has been taken in that circle. But we have absolutely no desire to leave any parties out, which is why I would like to start by inviting you to a meeting, and then we can try to take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104107	Thus we end in peace and happiness. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104123	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104136	Thank you, President. It is well known that the Climate Act has set targets for Denmark to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030 compared to 1990 levels and that Denmark should be a climate-neutral society by 2050. In the coming years, therefore, the transport sector, like other sectors, must reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. In order for Denmark to ensure a green transition of the transport sector while maintaining high mobility, there is a need to convert the energy consumption of the transport sector into alternative fuels. In order to achieve our reduction targets, it is our political desire to make it as easy for Danes to drive in cars using alternative fuels as it is to drive in fossil cars. It is therefore our ambition to make electric vehicles a very easy alternative for several of the families who want a more sustainable form of mobility, but where accessibility to charging infrastructure today is an obstacle to the green transition. Access to charging is essential to whether drivers want to buy and use electric vehicles. According to the draft law's comments, it is uncertain today how much charging infrastructure needs to be deployed up to 2030 in order to support our political ambition for one million green cars, which is part of the "Green Conversion of Road Transport" agreement. This will depend on the development of vehicle range and charging speed, driving and charging patterns. The need for public availability for charging electrical vehicles is particularly linked to the longer journeys by car and to electric cars without access to charging at their own parking. Today it is well 5%. of all car travel in Denmark, which is more than 150 km each way, so only a small part of car travel will need charging along the way. It is therefore expected that the vast majority of electric vehicle charging will take place in the electric car owner's own parking space at the home address where a private market-based charging facility can typically be established in connection with the electric car purchase. About three quarters of Danish families with cars can thus relatively easily access home charging. Conversely, a quarter of Danish families with car do not have access to their own parking space. Here the car is parked either on a common parking area or at the curb. The market is also expected to deliver a significant part of the need for charging in the form of publicly available charging points. However, it is uncertain to what extent and at what speed the market will meet the need for roll-out of publicly available cargo structures. Uncertainty about charging electrical vehicles until 2030 can help prevent a number of Danes from making a greener choice when changing cars. So when the purchase of an electric car by a family depends on the spread of charging points, we need to ensure far more charging points on the political side, and that is what this bill is a major step towards. The main purpose of the draft law is to lay down requirements relating to the establishment and operation of publicly available charging points on public land. The draft law provides, among other things: legal basis for municipalities and regions to enter into agreements with charging operators on the establishment and operation of publicly available charging points on municipal and regional areas. Within certain limits, municipalities and regions will be able to pay to the charging operators in order to agree on the establishment and operation of charging points on the territory of the municipality or region. It is proposed that public contracts on charging infrastructure should be concluded on market terms, and in practice that is after tendering or advertising. Following the draft law, the public authorities will have to ensure that the charging operator has reasonable and non-discriminatory charges for charging for the user. It also follows from the draft law that charging operators must provide widespread payment solutions to users of electric cars, including by accepting regular debit cards for charging at public speed chargers on public land. For publicly available charging points with a power of 50 kW, the operator may choose to offer roaming instead of payment card readers. Roaming can be done either through a bilateral agreement or via third parties, the so-called hub-based roaming. The draft law provides for the Ministry of Transport to evaluate the law after 2-3 years, so that we can assess whether there is a need to adjust the rules we now hopefully adopt. All in all, it is a bill to ensure that more Danes who are facing changing cars will be able to see that the number of charging points around the country will make it safe for them so that they can solve their transport needs with a car that does not emit greenhouse gases. This is a very good initiative which the Social Democrats can, of course, support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104643	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That's why we can go ahead in the series of speeches to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104700	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by commending my colleague from the Social Democratic Party for an incredibly good review of this bill. There is not much I can contribute further to shed light on this matter. This is a natural consequence of the fact that we want to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030 and be a climate-neutral society by 2050. This also requires infrastructure in the transport sector, as my colleague has just explained. And, of course, the Left supports that. However, there are a number of answers to questions raised in connection with the consultation, and we will, of course, find this out jointly in the context of the legislative work. Finally, I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say 'no', the Conservatives will explain their own position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104753	We'll see about that then. Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no brief comments. Now we must move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210104808	First of all, I should like to say that I am certainly not greeting anyone. It will be exciting to see if the Conservatives have changed their minds. However, I should be surprised at the fact that we in the contracting party have had an incredible number of meetings on the implementation of the agreement which lies behind this draft law tabled by the Minister for Transport. In the Danish People's Party we have been concerned that there must be good harmony in the offers we make to the municipalities, in terms of ensuring and facilitating that those places where it is perhaps less attractive can also provide infrastructure for charging electric cars running on renewable energy types. That is why, on several occasions, this bill has been left out, and the last time after the second round of consultations, we were able, of course, back on 28 October last year to reach a political agreement on a more detailed set of conditions for what we can make of the legislative requirements in relation to the establishment and operation of these electric charging points. It has been important for the Danish People's Party that we make a model in which the municipalities are also obliged in relation to the economic part of it, but also where we do not come into disharmony with private providers, service stations and everything else, because it can be said, in a rough way, that these new types of fuel for cars etc. will influence our large number of filling stations around Denmark. We are not going to go into a model where we will compete with state funds and municipal funds in relation to private actors. We believe that as far as possible along the way, it should be the private market that facilitates and invests in these products. At the same time, it has been important that it is also what the bill says that we will focus on the fact that the means of payment available should also be able to be facilitated at these stations. It is important that when they arrive, people also have the opportunity to pay with the types of payment that we are known for here in Denmark. So, of course, we support the proposal. We're in the deal ourselves, so there's nothing new in it. And we also look forward to seeing what happens to the municipal part of it. I myself know from my own home municipality that there is a great interest in bidding with local areas in relation to these types of infrastructure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210105053	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. I like it when the rapporteurs are queuing to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210105112	I'm sorry I didn't pay attention. Much has been said quite rightly by the previous rapporteurs, and the Radical Left strongly supports this bill. We are on the verge of a massive roll-out of charging infrastructure across the country and we have missed having a common regulation, it can happen within, and it comes here. So when I was going to introduce it to my own parliamentary group, I said this is the chicken, and then afterwards the egg comes, it's timely that we make this regulation. We have talked about this in depth and we have found the principles that should apply to the upcoming roll-out of charging infrastructure. It is quite appropriate, it is timely and we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210105146	That means that the mystery of the chicken and the egg is solved now. Rasmus Helveg Petersen It is first the egg, and then it is the hen itself). There are no brief comments, and that means that we can now move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210105203	Thank you. I welcome our transport rapporteur, Henning Hyllested, who is busy closing a hybrid car sink in the Treasury. So what is Enhedslisten's position on the issue of infrastructure for alternative propellants is that Enhedslisten votes in favour of the bill because it is based on agreements that we have helped to conclude: regulation of the charging platform market, pool for green transport from June 2021 and pot for green transport from April 2020. In the negotiations, the Enhedslisten has had a rather different starting point from what the agreement on regulating the barter market ended up with, as set out in this bill. We would have liked the municipalities and regions to have even more opportunities to offer and to be responsible for the establishment of barns themselves, but it is evident that the majority in this House swear to the market and prefer not to see public participation in the activity in which it smells of money. I do not know how many times the word market conditions are mentioned in the bill, but there is nothing to be mistaken about. The agreement thus appears to be a clear restriction on municipalities and regions' ability to participate directly in the green transition in the transport sector, in this case for the conversion of the car park. It is true that we succeeded in ensuring that municipalities can, after all, be given the possibility of cofinancing by setting up charging stations if the market does not provide for this, first and foremost with regard to the outlying tourist areas where there is no immediate prospect of good business by setting up a charging station. However, this municipal cofinancing is subject to clear restrictions in the form of time limits and budget frameworks, and this must, of course, be done under so-called market conditions. We would have liked compulsory roaming to have become part of the agreement and the bill, and that was thus part of the government's original proposal, but it fell out in response to the demands of the bourgeois and after intense lobbying by charging operators and others. Roaming is therefore only an option for the charging stations with a power of less than 50 kW. We do not believe that the requirement for charging stations to be able to be operated with credit cards is enough to keep prices low, and this will not prevent various charging operators from making subscription schemes that allow other car owners in need of charging to pay an overcharge for electricity in just their charging station. We note that it is part of the agreement in the draft law that the Competition Council is in the process of examining competition in the market for the charging of electric cars and that this study could have an impact on the pricing of charging on public areas. We also note that the Danish Competition Authority and the Danish Consumer Authority are involved in the work of clarifying the conditions for pricing in the barn market. In the comments under the section "Delegation and access to complaints', the draft law provides for the possibility for the Minister of Transport that decisions under the law may not be appealed against. We don't like that in the Enhedslisten. So unless there is a good explanation for this exception, we will be tabling an amendment calling for this option to be withdrawn from the legislative proposal. That's the friendly greeting from Mr. Henning Hyllested to this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210105535	Thank you. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210105542	Thank you very much, sir. President. I am quite happy to be able to bring a little excitement into today's debate, because I understand that there is a lot of doubt about the Conservatives' position on this proposal, which is why I should like to wait a little longer to tell you what our position is on this matter. However, the infrastructure of the future is changing and will hopefully last and we can support it from here. That is why it is important to set public charging points on public land and we welcome the fact that it is proposed that we embrace both hydrogen, LNG and so on. etc. by this roll-out. With this roll-out, we are starting to extinguish what I would call the mileage scare, and will thus over the years have vehicles rolled out in relation to both private vehicles and heavy commercial vehicles, and even flex traffic gets easier to see itself in the green switch-over not because it is a requirement, but because it makes sense and because it is needed. This is just the first initial roll-out of the green infrastructure. We ourselves have taken an active part in providing support for the establishment of hydrogen, biogas, electricity and so on. along the Danish road network. I'd like to finish the speech with an episode from my own everyday life. It is so that every Saturday I sit down in my company and look at the customer requests that we have received over the past week's time. One of the issues that goes a lot further on our website is the question of whether we have CO2 That, by its very nature, does not guarantee today, but is now moving the opportunity closer, and that is a source of great joy to me. And in order to trigger the tension, I can say that we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210105726	Thank you. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210105734	Thank you. There is almost a revolution going on when it comes to the Danes' car habits. We can see from the latest figures that it is now the case that just over half of the private cars bought and then you can also include the used cars imported are pure electric cars, i.e. of the private cars, they are not commercial cars. In other words, we are getting more and more cars on the roads that are running on clean power and that need to load. We, as politicians in the Folketing, do not have to worry about that, because cars are mostly loaded in the carport where they hold. People have their own barns at home on their own private property. Elsewhere, it is Shell or the supermarket or the like that sets chargingstands up for lightning on their area because they want to make money on it or because they want to attract some customers. So in the majority of the barn market things are going on without our interference, and we do not have to worry about it. Then there are the public areas, and that is something else, of course, because when the public owns land that can be usefully used to establish charging points, public opinion must of course decide how it should be done. That's what this bill is about. It is about rest areas along the motorway network at the disposal of the Road Directorate. What are the conditions for setting up charging infrastructure for private individuals there? It is about parking spaces especially in the larger cities of Denmark, where people do not have their own parking space attached to their apartment, but where they instead park down the street in some municipal parking spaces. And if people in the city are to have the opportunity to have electric cars and charge their homes, then this is where to set up charging options. It is clear that the State must set the conditions for setting up private charging infrastructure on the land of the State and the Road Directorate. It is also clear that a regulatory framework needs to be established as to what municipalities should do when establishing charging facilities in municipal parking spaces. That's what this is about. We support the approach here, which is that this should be done by tendering and that it should be given to those who are willing to pay the most in order to be allowed to set up a barn in a public barn. Elsewhere, there may be a nervous feeling that there are not enough cars and that there is not enough economy in it, and then this legislation provides an opportunity for you to send it in tenders in such a way that it is they who should have the least payment from the public who set up the barnstands. It is market-based and it is as we know it from so many other areas. We therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110038	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And I do not see any more rapporteurs asking to speak. That's why we've come to the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110053	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I am very much looking forward to the cooperation. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. It's a bill that I've been working on for a long time, joking aside, but at least it's a bill that's really important. The transport sector accounts for 30% in 2030. of the Danish discharges. Of this, road transport stands for the vast majority. That is why it is also crucial that emissions from road transport and passenger cars are drastically reduced, and here the electric cars are the key. Government policy goes on two legs. On the one hand, we have implemented a charging system which encourages green conversion and, on the other hand, we have put in place a plan for roll-out of charging infrastructure so that the lack of charging facilities does not become a barrier to people buying an electric car. And the electric car sales are going well; actually surprisingly well, but we are not in the finish line and we should not stop. At the same time, there are several publicly available charging stations on an ongoing basis. By the end of 2020 there were 2,879 charging points, and one year later the number had increased by 68%. to 4.828 charge points. The government's charging infrastructure plan in Denmark is about three things: firstly, to ensure long journeys that require charging along the way; secondly, to ensure charging to car owners who do not have access to charging in their own parking lot; and thirdly, to ensure a long-term, proper regulation of the area. Today's legislative proposal has now been delivered on all three agendas, but I would like to stress that we are not in the target yet far from it, we have only just started. First of all, with regard to the long journeys, we set aside EUR 500 million under the infrastructure agreement. kr. for charging infrastructure along the national road network and 275 million kr. that can support the upcoming strategy for roll-out of propellant infrastructure for heavy traffic. The investment makes it possible to roll out over 50 barn parks along the state road network. The first 6 barn parks will be established this year. And if you go according to plan, before New Year's alone on Funen, just to mention Funen, there may be as many as 64 new zippers spread across 4 barn parks. This is a major and important step in the right direction. Secondly, we need to ensure better charging opportunities for those car owners who do not have access to charge the car in their own parking lot. We do, among other things. through pools that contribute positively to development, e.g. the agreement on the execution of 150 million. kr. to co-finance publicly available charging stations in municipal and private areas by 2022. As someone may also remember, in the context of the climate cooperation agreements on green public transport in the summer of 2020, the government undertook to look at the framework to create a legal basis for municipal subsidies for charging infrastructure. In October last year, the government then got the crucial elements of this bill in place through a political vote agreement. The agreement was concluded between the Government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative. I would like to thank the parties for the agreement, because it allows municipalities to set up charging stations in cities or rural areas where the market itself cannot carry out the task. This will make it possible to ensure even more charging opportunities for the many who drive the short walks in and out of the cities and who cannot afford to set up a charging station at home in the garage. Finally, there is the third and final challenge, and it is the regulatory adjustments that need to be made so that this can be done at the end of the day. We therefore want to make a number of adjustments to the market framework, which will support the development of charging infrastructure in Denmark. We also want to make it easier for municipalities and regions to play a role in development by clarifying precisely how they can support the establishment of publicly available charging infrastructure at local and regional level. At the same time, it is our ambition to open up the market so that we can create the transparent prices needed for drivers to find their heads and tails in the many offers and offers. In other words, through these three focus areas, we can create a finely masked network of publicly available charging infrastructure, while at the same time providing insight into prices, so that as electric car owners in the future you can carry out your charging quickly throughout the country and at a reasonable price, and no longer be afraid of power stress or range anxiety. This bill will contribute to this, and overall it will also strengthen the Danish implementation of the directive. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the good and constructive debate on the proposal and on the subject at all. I look forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Danish Parliament and the cooperation on the cooperation to also take the next steps. And, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in this connection. Or maybe I have a few questions for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110642	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110646	Thank you very much for that and thank you for a fine speech, the Minister's first speech in this area, and also for corona. Thank you. The Minister mentions electricity as such almost blissful, and that is also true in ordinary passenger transport, but how does the Minister view heavy transport in relation to all of this with barn parks and lng etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110711	There is no doubt that we have a problem. We have that for our entire transport sector, and that is why we must have all good solutions in play. Here, too, I believe that innovation and our business community play a really central role in developing new technology, in developing new habits in terms of how we use transport, how we have our logistics at all. So there is probably the short lane where we are looking at the solutions that are already here today, but there is also a long path where there are new technologies that are part of the solution in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110755	Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110757	There are also technologies that have been here for a long time, at least in Europe. Now we opened the first Ing plants, the Liquified Natural Gas plant, in Padborg here 14 days ago, and where there was a queue of trucks in front. I am aware that the Minister may not be fully in the area yet, but does the Minister see such immediate opportunities for further roll-out on the Danish road network?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110824	There is, of course, a common understanding that this is what we are looking into and that it is also necessary, and that is also what I was trying to say with the short lane and there is the long lane. The short track is about the technologies that already exist and that we need to put into further use, and then there is the long track where we have to go very, very large steps, but which also includes the development of new technologies and solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110848	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110902	The debate is open. I do not see a Social Democrat rapporteur there is a Social Democrat rapporteur somewhere? No. Then we move on to the left. Here you go, sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210110937	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the government for presenting the L 110, which is of course aimed at improving the legislation on the Register of Lead Owners. The overall purpose of this bill is to draw up a new main law so that the Act on the Register of Conduct can be updated and thus become more coherent and easier to navigate for those who need access to it. In the Left, we want to contribute to bringing this legislation up to date and getting clear legislation in this area, which we can also read from the consultation answers overall meet approval in the industry. That is why we support the draft law. However, we have a few questions which we hope we will be able to discuss in committee. It is noted in the consultations that small democratically run associations will find it difficult to comply with the two-hour period of the law on new lines. We would like to discuss in committee whether we can find a solution to this problem, i.e. whether it is possible to make this deadline more flexible so that these small voluntary associations do not suffer. In addition, of course, we will also focus on the fact that the bill is being implemented with data security as a high priority. It is smart to have records of information that make administration easier for digging actors, but of course it always involves a risk when we store large amounts of citizens' data. We therefore agree with the Data Protection Agency in their response to the consultation, where they state that an assessment should be made of what information is necessary to keep in view of the purpose of the register. We look forward to the forthcoming committee reading, in which we hope to clarify and discuss the comments that have been made, so that we can draw up a very good and sensible law in this area which is urgently needed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111121	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111130	After all, the reason for this bill is an agreement between the government and the National Association of Municipalities, which is about updating the rules on the Lead Owner Register. The purpose of this register is quite reasonable: to record where the wires are located, i.e. fiber cables and power cables and other things, so it is easier to avoid digging them over when digging takes place. Unfortunately, it happens sometimes out there, but it can have quite major consequences when someone suddenly digs a power line over to an entire city or something. So it is very much about security of supply, that is to say, that you can dig safely and safely without destroying any of what is already in the ground. I actually see most of all this bill as a series of adjustments in relation to what is already in the register, and we think that is quite reasonable. There are, among other things: If it were to happen that they were dug over, it could be said, for road drainage lines, which are probably not the most critical ones if they were to be dug over, namely that they will be able to register this information over a number of years until 2030. So in the Danish People's Party, we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111235	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111246	Thank you very much. We can also, radically, warmly support this upgrade of the cable owner register law. We think it is so good and sensible for the purpose of the law, and we think that the process ahead is fine, so like the previous speakers: yes, the Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111301	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111312	Thank you. The protection of the supply network and hence security of supply are important for Denmark's green conversion, security of supply and prosperity. Furthermore, the proposal states that it is the expectation that the municipalities will voluntarily hand over more and more of the related wiring information up to 2030 for the benefit of the digging operators. And when we are dealing with such a bill where even the consultation answers have been listened to, we are looking into something where Denmark's green conversion, security of supply, prosperity and the joy of digging operators are thus strengthened with the bill • and it supports Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111400	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Ole Birk Olesen. It's a little awkward with rapporteurs today. Here you go, Liberal Alliance rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111418	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance backs the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111426	I do not see any more rapporteurs, and I would therefore like to welcome the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111433	Normally, I always start my speeches up here by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments, and in those cases I actually think so too. But in this case I think so in particular, because these were very good and positive comments. It is clear that those that I will allow myself to regard as minor concerns that have been mentioned must, of course, be looked at in the course of the committee procedure. The law is the legal framework for the digital solution, the Lead Owner Register. The purpose is to ensure the supply of wiring information from cable owners to those digging in the Danish underground. The protection of the supply network is important for Denmark's green conversion, for our security of supply and for prosperity. The draft law is presented primarily to comply with an agreement based on the extended overall balance principle concluded between the Ministry of Finance and the KL in 2020, where it was stated that an exemption should be made to the scope of the road drainage line. This means that until 1 January 2030 the owners of road drainage lines can choose whether to provide the wiring information on these lines if the wiring is buried before 1 July 2023. The municipalities and the Vejdirektoratet are the primary owners of these road drainage lines. The lead information on existing road drainage lines can be deficient and of poor quality, increasing the cost of digitising them. The draft law gives municipalities greater flexibility in relation to the cost of digitising the wiring information on existing road drainage lines. Firstly, road drainage does not have the same social criticism as, for example, road drainage. gas and telecommunications lines. The information on these lines is therefore digitised over time, but this is done taking into account the economy of the municipalities and the criticality of the wires. Secondly, the draft law also contains new provisions so that cable owners who are voluntarily registered in the register may be exempted from providing information in a way that makes less demands on the digitisation of their wiring information. Thirdly, the scope of the law is extended to the whole of Denmark both on land and on sea. Finally, the draft law contains overall quality assurance and minor adjustments to ensure that the law is easily understood by the actors concerned and that the law, which is originally from 2004, reflects the latest developments in this area. Overall, this proposal ensures the sustainable development of the Digital Lead Owner Register, which takes into account both municipalities, small home owners and small production companies and their ability to pay for digitalisation. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and, with these comments, I would like to commend the proposal for the favourable treatment of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210111750	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Now we should have been on the next item on the agenda, but the Minister has not arrived. Normally it would trigger a rather sharp reprimand on my part, but it will not do that today, because it has gone disproportionately fast. So we're just gonna take a deep breath, and then I think we can get started on the next treatment shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210112958	We'll resume the meeting. In normal circumstances, I would have given a ruffle to the minister who was not present, but I think there is an apologizing moment in the fact that there has been the rapid treatment that has been done for various reasons. The debate is open. First, it's sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210113035	Thank you for that, President. It is good that there is some flexibility so that I can be replaced in the chair. This bill, L 115, is the result of a tripartite agreement signed by the government. It contains such a little different: on the one hand, a better match between the unemployed and the companies; on the other hand, it is something that we in the Danish People's Party have talked a great deal about; on the other hand, stricter availability rules to ensure that the unemployed seek and take a job; on the other hand, stronger efforts to get unemployed seniors back into jobs; and on the other hand, helping companies to recruit European labour. The last point is, as far as I can see, not included in this bill. It is also a question of young people who are on educational assistance and who are under 30 years of age and who have no vocational competence to receive training assistance or are on a transitional basis being given the opportunity to take an ordinary job. That is something for which I have also spoken a great deal, because not all young people are just ready to take an education. In this context, we must ensure that young people can also gain a foothold in the labour market, and if they enter a job, it is possible that they will still be able to take an education. So that's a good thing. It's something I've actually talked about several times, so it's positive that it's in here now. It is just a little too bad that the Minister, and not even the former Minister, would be involved in this without it having to go over a tripartite agreement, but leave it at that. We can support it. With regard to sanctions against those who are ready for training or job preparation and recipients of cash aid, I also think it is right to ensure that they meet the requirements. It is the case that they can already be sanctioned if they do not meet the requirements, and that will be so strengthened in the future. The rules will also be tightened up to the benefit recipients so that, if they have not applied for a job one month, they can also receive a sanction. There is a great deal of reasonableness in that, but of course there may be some reasons why they do not do so, which is why it is also important to point out something. After all, we had a consultation yesterday that if sanctions are imposed, then there must be a hearing of the parties. We must not simply sanction without having heard the reason for this. There can be many reasons for this, and people can be blameless that they have not sought or taken a job. So that way it should also be assured. One of the things that also lies in it, which we are a little more sceptical about, is the ban on an employer asking the applicant to provide information on his or her age when submitting, submitting, uploading or entering the job application. When you send in a job application that you don't have to write your age, there's also a resume, and you always put that in. This means that the employer can see at any time what age you are, because it says when you have entered the labour market. So we're kind of skeptical about that. That is why I would actually ask the Minister to separate that part from the draft law so that it becomes a legislative proposal for itself. Then the Danish People's Party will vote yellow to it with age, because we are very uncertain about how it will work, and we think it would be more real to make an extra effort to get seniors into jobs instead of saying that the employer must not know the applicant's age. In the worst case scenario, if employers do not know the age, it may end up with candidates coming to job interviews and then they are told that they are not suitable anyway. There, I think, we should have a different approach to this with regard to the interview with the employer, and not just say that the employer should not ask to be informed of age. But if we get that part separated into a bill for ourselves, the Danish People's Party can vote in favour of the proposal, and then we will vote yellow to the part that contains it with age, if possible. I would ask the Minister to consider whether this can be done and, if it cannot be distinguished, we will have to vote yellow to the whole proposal, although we actually agree with most of what is proposed in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210113518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210113530	I don't know if you can say funny background, but if you rewind the film a little and go to last year around September, then before the lifting of the restrictions there was no doubt that what was a very important focal point was the question that there were now probably a lot of companies that would turn the key; we would experience a lot of bankruptcies in relation to the restrictions that were around the corona. But what we saw almost the day after the restrictions had been lifted was that there was a debate and demand, so that it is said: we now need labour. And there is no doubt that we are in complete agreement with the forecasts; we know that in the long term we will be lacking hands and, in particular, trained labour. We have also tried to take that into account. But this exact situation came very quickly and very violently. And you can actually say that when we face some challenges here, it is on a positive background, understood in the way that things are going really well in Denmark; in fact, things are going so well that we have apparently achieved the highest growth in 15 years. Unemployment is historically low. In December, unemployment was down to 21⁄2%. But this is also due to the crisis policy pursued by the government, together with a broad and responsible majority in the Folketing. With some massive investments and aid packages, we have held our hands under the Danish companies and the Danish employees. This is also why the government concluded a tripartite agreement on labour shortages with the social partners and KL back in October 2021. With the tripartite agreement, we are working on four different areas: better match between the unemployed and companies; reinforced availability rules to ensure that the unemployed seek and take jobs; strengthened efforts to get unemployed seniors back into jobs; and finally helping companies to recruit European labour. The purpose of the draft law here is to translate those parts of the tripartite agreement which require changes to the law. Firstly, as mentioned before, it is proposed that we start an experiment in which the job centres are given the opportunity to initiate a job-oriented effort rather than a training-oriented effort for people under 30 years of age. The aim is to bring more young people into the labour market in the short term, but at the same time it must also be based on a concrete assessment and also on the young person's own desire for job-oriented action. Secondly, it is proposed that the rules on availability be tightened up. This means that, for a limited period of time, if the unemployed person is not available for the labour market or is not looking for jobs that he or she is required to apply for. Thirdly, it is proposed to introduce a ban on screening job applicants on the basis of age. Last week, it came out in an evaluation that half of the unemployed seniors are experiencing an opt-out because of their age. We think that is quite wrong. That is why it is also a question of some balances: the lack of labour must not only be solved by foreign labour; the low level of unemployment also offers some opportunities to get some of those at the end of the line of work into the job party we have. I am glad that employers also commit themselves to this in the tripartite agreement. In the Social Democratic Party, of course, we take this shortage of labour seriously, because it can be a brake on the growth and progress that the Danish economy is currently making. So that's why it's not just this tripartite agreement. We also have a reform agreement here at the end of January, which should also very much help to free up some hands for the benefit of Danish business. Against this background, we in the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210113950	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions, and it does not appear that there is anyone from the Left. Then it is Halime Oguz, the rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114016	Thank you for that, President. For the sake of good order, I have to say that I am not the rapporteur in this area. Karsten Hønge, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be here. The draft law provides for the implementation of the tripartite agreement on labour shortages from October 2021. The agreement addresses four areas: better match between the unemployed and companies, stricter availability rules to ensure that the unemployed seek and take jobs, strengthened efforts to get unemployed seniors back into jobs, and finally helping companies recruit European labour. Tripartite agreements are a cornerstone of the Danish model, which is why SF also supports the bill. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight in particular the part relating to seniors' employment relationship. For although employers are shouting about labour shortages, it is unfortunately clear that it is far too difficult on the Danish labour market to get back into jobs if you only become unemployed when you are 50 years old. Over one in five private employers, applicants are separated by age. It showed an analysis from the Consultant House Ballisager as recently as the autumn of 2021. That is simply not right, and it is quite absurd when we talk about labour shortages and, moreover, we have to work longer and longer before the retirement age. There is age discrimination here. Therefore, we in the SF are very pleased that the bill introduces a ban on employers screening job applicants on the basis of their age when submitting, submitting, uploading or entering a job application. You don't have to be discouraged because of your age. On the contrary, we must appreciate the many people who want nothing more than to find a job but do not have a chance. As I said, the SF supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114214	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Let's move on. The Radical Left is not present, so it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114225	Thank you. The proposal is a result of the trialogue, and in my view it consists of four major parts, not all of which have anything to do with each other, and that is why I would like to join Mr Van der Klaauw's speech. Bent Bøgsted also proposes that the bill be split up, and we can then ask for this in writing or get the Minister's comment at the end of the rapporteur's line. The first and most important part, in my opinion, and the one with the most perspective, is the part with experiments on job-oriented efforts for young people. Because it is a little strange that we have an employment system which requires that we enter education, whether you are aware of what your life perspective is, and there are a lot of young people who are not ready for it at the time of their leaving school and who, on the other hand, would have a very good experience building on getting out to work. So I think it is a very good attempt to look at whether you could not get more out of it. The second part of this is that special sanctions must be made for selected groups, and that is one of the points that I would like to take a rather sceptical view of because it is simply not worked through. And when I say it, it is because it is completely unmanageable. I do not know if anyone has thought that a social event can take place in the middle of a month. You can, for example. you can get married, or you can have a child, or something can happen within a month that makes you suddenly have to change the rate. It is not manageable, it cannot be measured and it cannot be implemented. Therefore, there is a great deal in the part of the bill that has not been finalised. For legal certainty requires you to know what you are subject to, and it can be very difficult to get hold of. So that part's a round. Then there is the question of holding an on-call meeting, and I would like to say that we do not have very well documented results of two years' special situation in relation to corona. For us it is visible that for some groups it will be a really good strength to have better conversations if you can hold them electronically or by telephone, but for other groups it is of course a great burden if they find it difficult to operate an IT system. Therefore, it is important that you are aware that if people want physical meetings, it must be absolutely certain that you can have them. But it's great to continue in the lead where we're trying to see if you can make these things more flexible. And the last element is the issue of age discrimination in application, and I am not sure that we are hit right here, but it is an excellent attempt to do so in this way. This requires, however, that we also look at the redefining of a job network for employers, because it is easy for employers to write that they want one between 25 and 45 years of age, and then only those applicants who meet that condition come out, and just such a search mechanism must of course be removed from the job network if we want to think something more serious about this. But this is probably not enough to address the age discrimination that is taking place in the context of job search, and that is why I believe that we should perhaps arrive at more comprehensive efforts in addition to those we have already decided on extra premiums for internship and for jobs with wage subsidies and such things, which are also experimental. So let's take them, and then we'll have to try to expand the others so they'll work. I would just like to say that it depends on the division and that it depends on the answers to a number of questions we have about the feasibility of it, how we vote at the end. So this will be reflected in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114636	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservatives, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114643	Thank you very much. As has already been said from the platform here today, it is a question of a tripartite agreement. We believe that the shortage of labour in Denmark is a huge one, and that is why I am delighted that the social partners joined forces in a tripartite agreement on the shortage of labour. I am also pleased that attempts were made with job-oriented efforts for young people and sanctions for job-ready unemployed people who are not looking for work for a month, and in addition a ban was imposed on employers asking applicants to provide information on their age. There are always thorns and thistles in proposals, and there are also Matador Miks in proposals, and so is this. After all, we think that the intention of the proposal is a good one, and we also support it. However, we would like to point out clearly that we do not think it is good that there is only voluntary work in the job centres and also in the municipalities, so that they can choose for themselves whether or not they want to be involved in an experiment. And then we think that the point that employers should not ask applicants to inform their age is a little crazy. I agree that there is a difference between the private labour market and the public labour market, but of course we would also like to see the Minister take it out if he has the opportunity. Otherwise we will try to get rid of the thorns in committee. However, we support the proposal as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114758	There is a question from Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114801	I would just like to ask the question of the fact that the municipalities are not allowed to have free choice as to whether or not they want to use the scheme. If you did so that it was the Committee, that is, the Employment Committee in the individual municipalities, so it was a political level that decided whether to use the scheme or not, was it better than if it is the job centre that can decide administratively?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114823	Yes, I would agree immediately with the rapporteur on the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114831	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114832	Well, why don't we just do it? Niels Flemming Hansen That's it).
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114835	We thank the rapporteur and move forward. New citizens aren't here, and then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210114843	Thank you. We are dealing with a legislative proposal which contains several elements, and I would first like to mention two positive elements. One is that people who are on educational aid can get a job-oriented effort from their job centre rather than an educational-oriented effort from their job centre. We think this is a very good idea. It is not necessarily the case that education is always the right thing for people who need to be part of this society and get to work rather early than late. That is why it is a good thing that you open up the trial and why you do not do it permanently, I do not know that they can get a job-oriented effort. Then there is another element which is about tighter availability rules for certain groups. That too is not permanent, but temporary. We would like to make it permanent, but a short time is better than no time, so we will vote for it too. Then there is a third element that we are sceptical about, and that is that employers should not, in the same way as today, start from or use information about the age of a job seeker in order to find out who is going to be interviewed. Firstly, we think it is fundamentally wrong not to do so, and secondly, we do not really think it will work at all. That is wrong, because there are all kinds of considerations that an employer can take on when a job is to be filled. Some employers may, for certain job functions, prefer applicants coming from Jutland to applicants coming from Copenhagen. And sometimes they can also prefer a man to a woman or a woman to a man. And sometimes they can also prefer a young person, and sometimes they can prefer someone who is a little older. It is entirely dependent on what it is for a position and what it is for a match that should be at the company. If you have too many old elves at work, it may be that you would rather have some young people in too, and if you have too many punks at work, it may be that you would like some with experience. There may be all sorts of considerations to take into account, which means that age can play a role. That's why we think it's weird. You already know that the legislation is there and that you must not discriminate against age, but this is an additional tool to prevent employers from starting from age. We cannot support that. So unless the proposal is divided, we will abstain from voting on this proposal. If it is shared, we will vote for everything that we think is positive and then we will vote against what we think is negative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210115127	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. Free Greens aren't here, so that's why it's sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210115146	Thank you. It's very true, sir. Ole Birk Olesen said here from the platform. In the real world, it will always be the case that in the end the employers themselves will have to make a choice about who they hire, on the basis of the preferences they have and then we can do so much. It doesn't change the fact that it provokes me quite considerably when Danish industry is crying out for labour and asking us in this Parliament to make agreements where we lower the limit of the amount and do everything possible to increase the supply of work, and then there are employers who won't hire us who are over 50 years old. It is simply so grotesque that I hardly have a word for it. It is, of course, legislation on age discrimination, but in reality it is probably the most signal value that is there and, in principle, I find it very difficult with all that signal legislation. Nevertheless, we want to say that we support this and we support the bill, because it is also the implementation of a tripartite agreement, and I have great respect for tripartite agreements. That is why I am not going to stick it much more and drive around in it, but simply say that we are going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210115329	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Hans Andersen, come forward and have the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210115336	Thank you. I am sorry that I was not here when the legal procedure began. I shall endeavour not to repeat myself. We support this bill. It is, of course, on the basis of a tripartite agreement concluded in the autumn, and, as I said, it makes greater demands on young people and also helps young people who can benefit from a career-oriented programme instead of a programme which is purely training-oriented. This is a positive thing, and the tripartite agreement must also try, in the short term, to remedy the enormous shortage of labour which companies have been calling for for a long time now. In isolation, however, the tripartite agreement concluded does not provide a much greater supply of labour. I have asked the Minister for Employment what this will lead to from extra employment, and I believe that this figure was about zero according to the way you calculate. So the signal is there, that is good, and we also think it is good that sanctions are tightened for people who are on cash benefits and daily allowances if you do not want to contribute. So we support that too. After all, we need more people, more hands, more heads to fill all the jobs that are unoccupied, both in the public and in the private sectors. After all, it is both in the care of the elderly, in our hospitals, in our companies, where contracts for orders are not made. We would also like to say that we are actually ready to continue working on agreements that will make us have a greater supply of labour, but we support this bill, and we also hope that it will be dealt with quickly so that the small elements of this bill can be put into effect as soon as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210115609	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are done with the rapporteur's line and move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210115622	Thank you very much for that, President. And thank you to the parties for the announcements and support for this bill. The lack of labour is, of course, as Mr. Hans Andersen just mentioned a subject which has the full attention of the government. Since the summer of last year we have heard from companies around Denmark that there is a shortage of labour; some even have to say no to orders because they cannot make it stick together. And, of course, as a community, we are not in a position to afford it either. In October 2021, the government, together with the social partners and the National Association of Local Authorities, concluded a tripartite agreement on labour shortages. The draft law we are discussing today translates part of the initiatives of the agreement. I and the government are well aware that this agreement does not solve all the shortcomings, but it gives the answer to some of them, and it is certainly a step in the right direction. The first part of the bill is about better match of young people. We have too many young people in Denmark who are neither in jobs nor in education. We simply need to resolve this. Now we're trying in a new way. With the bill, we are launching an experiment in which the municipalities of the country are given the opportunity to give young people a job-oriented effort instead of a training-oriented effort. It is a question of starting from the individual young people. And there will be some who benefit most from starting an education, but there will also be some who benefit most from getting to work immediately. Here we propose to give the municipalities the freedom to organise the work together with the young person. This does not mean that we should have fewer young people taking an education, on the contrary. It is a question of starting from the individual young people, and for some, a job will be what may later turn out to be the way to an education. The second part of the bill is about a new sanction for unemployed people who do not look for jobs. We must be available for the labour market, and there can be no two opinions on this. Being available also means being active as a jobseeker. With the proposal for a new temporary sanction, the parties to the agreement agree that, in future, the unemployed will be called for an on-call interview and subsequently faced with a sanction if they have not applied for a job for a whole calendar month. The third and final part of the bill is about seniors and age discrimination. Last week, the Ministry of Employment published an evaluation of the pool for a special effort for seniors. According to the evaluation, half of the unemployed seniors have experienced being chosen from to a job because of their age half! I do not think that is right, and I think it is hypocritical that we hear companies screaming at labour when we have skilled, experienced unemployed people walking around who find that the door is closed when they want to work. That is why I am very pleased that, with the tripartite agreement, we agreed to prohibit employers from requiring age information when applying for a job. It does not solve all the problems, I am fully aware of that, but it does mean that employers should actually open up the application and the CV and relate to the content when hiring new employees. Then at least as a free senior, you're through the first needle's eye. And I hope that with this part of the bill we can increase the possibilities for seniors to be assessed on the basis of their qualifications and experience and not on the basis of their age. Age discrimination does not belong in the labour market, not at all in the current situation. With the legislative proposal, we are taking a small step in the right direction and, at the same time, we are sending a strong signal to companies. It was a little bit about the three initiatives that the draft law should implement today. The remaining initiatives in the tripartite agreement will be continuously implemented here at the beginning of 2022. Thank you again for today's treatment. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120011	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120013	I just want to ask the Minister's position on the split of the bill. Is the Minister open to the fact that we divide the bill into its components?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120025	As a starting point, I feel that this is a tripartite agreement, which is also based on balance sheets, and, when you read the three initiatives included in the legislative proposal, you can almost see that they have different balance points. There is no doubt that workers have had to reach some kind of compromise or at least make some concessions in order to tighten the rules on sanctions. On the other hand, there is no doubt that employers have also had to compromise on some points of view in order to accept an attempt to prohibit the request for age information at the time of application. That is why I believe that these balances should be seen in their entirety. Having said that, we are, of course, open to discussing it with the committee if there is a desire to split the bill, and I think we can discuss that further after the legislative procedure today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120120	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120122	Then I have another question. The final point in the legislative proposal is that there will be help for companies to recruit European labour. What does that mean, where is it in the bill, and what is it about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120137	This is not an initiative that requires any change in the law. After all, in the tripartite agreement, we set aside an amount for consulates, embassies, etc. could assist companies in recruiting labour around the European Union, and that is one of the things that will take place here during the first half of 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120157	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120200	The Minister's answer to Mrs Jette Gottlieb made me a little curious. Can the Minister explain a little why it is that the trade union movement in Denmark has something against tightening sanctions so that people who do not really seek work are affected by sanctions? What is it in the trade union movement that makes it felt that people should be given the opportunity, to a greater extent than what this draft law proposes, not to look for jobs without being penalised?
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120232	In other words, I do not think I can explain what is the employers' or workers' point of view on specific issues. But I guess there's always a general consideration. It's also a consideration that many political parties have in finding the right balance sheets between available and sanctioned. This, of course, is also one of the issues that has been discussed in the trialogue negotiations on this agreement and in which we have then agreed to tighten the rules on sanctions, at least for a period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120308	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120309	It just sounds to the Minister as if there are sanctions if you are not available for the labour market when you receive unemployment benefits or cash benefits, in fact it is something that goes against the interests of the trade union movement. You can also sometimes get the impression that it is as if they in the trade union movement do not care so much about the best interests of society, but just care that their members should feel as good as possible, including that there are no severe sanctions if they say no to a job. But I think it was a great concession on the part of the Minister to say that these are the sort of interests that the Minister is working for now, since he is also a minister of the trade union movement in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120346	Well, I'm kind of a minister for employers, too. In fact, I am also Minister for Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, whether he wants it or not. And my political views always mean trying to find the right balance between right and duty, between available and sanction. In the Social Democratic Party and in the government, we support the fact that we have strict sanctions when, at the same time, we have quite precise rules of availability, all of which speaks in terms of the fact that we also have a generous and with the new reform agreement a little more generous unemployment insurance system. But all of this is always about balances, and I think that this is also the expression of some sensible balances.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120429	Then we thank the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220210120443	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 11 February 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
