ParlaMint-DK_20220504100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 195 (Proposal for a law on the Central DNA Profile Register and the Central Fingerprint Register). Tax Minister (Jep Bruus): Bill no. L 196 (Reduction of interest compensation and extension of the scope of remuneration, etc.) in cases relating to the refund of dividend tax etc., the harmonization of the date of calculation of interest on the collection of taxes and duties in certain situations, as well as the amendment of the rules on adjustment resulting from the definitively established percentage deduction of the partial right to deduct VAT, etc.). Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill No. L 197 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2022, the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2023, the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2025, and the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for the State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2025.) Jens Roh (KD): Motion for a resolution No. B 198 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on women's right to abortion being made an inviolable internationally recognized right. ) Titles on the notified cases will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The Legal Affairs Committee has delivered: Report and recommendation on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for the year 2021. B 199). The report and the recommendation will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. Members of the Folketing Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left, and Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left, have informed me that they want to take questions about pupils' opportunities to contribute to school etc. Back up. The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504100118	The items listed as No. 4 and 5 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this meeting with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504100132	The debate is open and I give the floor first to Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504100150	First of all, many thanks to Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution and thereby also focusing on animal welfare in Danish cattle production. This is an important and sympathetic errand. I fully agree that cows need to move and I would like to see more cows put on grass during the summer. I think it is a very great pleasure for the cows to be released to grass every year. It has also become an event that attracts many visitors, and it has become a very good spring tradition for many families to come out to blah. ecoday and watch the cows be let out. That is why I am very pleased that our broad political agreement on the greening of agriculture, an agreement that also includes the authors of the resolution here, the Enhedslisten, contains an ambition that organic farming should double by 2030. And that will mean even more cows on grass until precisely 2030. I would also like to emphasise that we already have basic rules in the Animal Welfare Act and in the relevant regulation, which ensures minimum requirements for cattle keeping. This means that there are rules on animal welfare for all cows, whether organic or not. Both ecology and animal welfare are agendas that I look forward to working on, and that is why I fully agree with the intention of the proposal. The proposalers' idea of introducing a requirement of at least 150 days on grass is just not, as I see it, the right way to go. This will cause some rather incalculable problems. First of all, it will have major operational and economic consequences for cattle farmers if all cattle are required to go to pasture during the summer. This applies in particular to dairy farms and to farms which raise calves for fattening and young animals. Indeed, they will have to make major investments and changes in their operating practices if they are to have their animals on grass during the summer. For a dairy farm still has to milk its cows, whether they are on grass or not. So, for example, it will have to be handled by adjusting operations or investing in, for example. mobile milking robotics, and something similar will also apply to slaughter cattle. So there are new measures to be taken which have some costs to bear. A demand will therefore lead to higher costs, and higher costs may well mean that parts of the production are simply moved abroad, and so we have come equally far in relation to both animal welfare and the green transition if we look at the overall picture. We've just lost revenue in Denmark. In addition to the high economic costs, there will also be a number of cases where agriculture does not have enough pasture at all, and this also applies, even if you think creatively and for example. Makes tunnels or anything else that can extend the pasture area of the cows. In these cases production will be forced to cease if such a requirement is introduced as is proposed here. That is why I do not believe that demands are the way forward. Instead, we must continue to work on the path we set out with the Agriculture Agreement, an agreement which, after all, brought the Folketing very broadly, in fact historically broad with more than 90%. of the members of the Folketing, including the authors of this proposal, namely Enhedslisten. There are several good steps in the Agriculture Agreement that we can work on. I have already mentioned the goal of doubling ecology by 2030. That is a good, strong and concrete objective. There are also several good voluntary measures that can help farmers, among others. through grant schemes. There are, for example: set aside funds that support cattle being put on grass. After all, we set aside these funds because more grass is good not only for animal welfare but also for, among other things. biodiversity; yet another good step. In addition, with the subsidy scheme for ecological investment aid, we can support technologies in the cattle sector. It can also be used to promote grazing. This is true, for example. materials for driveways and mobile milking robotics. The government also promotes market-driven animal welfare. We do, among other things. through the state animal welfare mark, it is with the hearts on which we know and which we, among other things, are. can look at our milk cartons. Here we are working with a number of stakeholders to further develop and extend the label to include several categories of animal food, and we are also working to spread knowledge and confidence in the label in the population. I am convinced that the animal welfare mark can contribute to an increase in demand and thus to an increase in the supply of food produced under the animal welfare mark, and this applies particularly to, among others. milk and meat from cattle. So keep an eye on the hearts of the milk carton or wherever they may be. Consumers therefore also have a major influence on whether Danish cattle are grazing, and this also applies to ecology. The more demand for e.g. organic milk is increasing, the more cows are grassing in the summer, and that we need to have more ecology, we are in complete agreement on that. It was also part of the broad agreement we made in October on future agriculture. At the same time, of course, we also need to focus on the conditions in the stables. Good animal welfare is important, including in the stables. As mentioned above, the Animal Welfare Act and the relevant Statutory Order ensure that there are requirements, inter alia, for: decorating stables to contribute to good conditions for the animals. And we must constantly ensure that the rules in this area are up-to-date, appropriate and adequate. Overall, I therefore agree that it is important to focus on animal welfare in Danish cattle production. No doubt about it. There are very good intentions here, we agree on that. And I am also looking forward to working on both ecology and animal welfare in different contexts. However, for the reasons mentioned earlier, the government is going to reject the resolution simply because we are afraid that it will be inappropriate, that it will be troublesome, that it will be difficult and that it will be more expensive and that production will move abroad so that we do not get the improvement in animal welfare that we want, but just lose the economy. Instead, the government will focus on promoting voluntary measures that can get more cattle on grass, and at the same time we must ensure that the animals have good conditions in the stables. For this very reason, we must focus on following the development of new knowledge in the field of animal welfare, so that we can maintain a high level of animal welfare in Denmark. Thanks for the word in this round. I look forward to it if there are any questions or comments. Thank you to the proposers for focusing on this important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504100907	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504100911	Thank you. It is almost the Minister's fault that we have tabled this motion for a resolution, because a year ago the Minister was able to hear enthusiastically on Facebook: it is quite high to see the cows wandering around the field. It is just enormously life-affirming, and it gives a better understanding of how good the ecology is for animal welfare. That is correct, but why should good animal welfare be something reserved for organic cows? Why not come to the conclusion that good animal welfare must apply to all drivers? Now the Minister mentions that we must give priority to good animal welfare in the stables, and I am in complete agreement with that. When you are in a situation where one in five Danish cow suffers from inflammation of the hooves, we are in a place where there are stable conditions out there that do not live up to good animal welfare. So I would like to hear from the Minister: how are we going to solve this? If we are not to do this by putting the cows on the grass, what is the Minister going to do to solve the animal welfare problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101017	Thank you very much, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen to report my enthusiastic announcement on Facebook. There is no doubt that I am a huge fan of animal welfare; I am very excited when animals are released from pasture. It's a pleasure to see you. That is also why we have made an agreement, among other things. along with Enhedslisten, to double the ecology by 2030. It's part of our deal. We really want to do this. Moreover, it is not the case that it is forbidden for non-organic livestock farmers to put their cows on grass, but it is just not so widespread. So we have nothing against intention. We would like to see as many cows as possible put on grass. There are just the reasons that I mentioned in my speech, namely that it poses some business problems for those farmers who now have a different form of production, and it is better to go along the roads we have already agreed. With regard to animal welfare in the barn, there are a number of measures relating to management and equipment that can ensure that welfare improves, but there is no doubt that it is preferable for cows to go to pasture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101120	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101121	Yes, but we just have to raise this debate because the development or settlement of agriculture is going so fast. After all, we are not going back very many years, even in this millennium, when it was more normal for cattle to go to pasture. Now we are looking into something where it is getting fewer and fewer of the livestock that come outdoors, and this is especially true of cattle. So we need to slow down because otherwise it will just end up being the economy that controls everything. The Minister is right, of course, that we are working for more ecology, but then we will come to the conclusion that it is a quarter of the Danish cattle herds that have proper conditions. Can the Minister not see that we have a major problem with the remaining 75%? cattle that are not going to be organic?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101158	Now I mentioned several measures that we are putting in place. There's also this animal welfare label with the hearts on which we know from the milk cartons. There is, of course, a strong call to consumers that if you care about animal welfare and that cows are going to grass, then it is a good idea to follow the animal welfare mark, but also the eco-label. So if there is both an animal welfare mark and an eco-label on the carton, you are sure that the cows have been on grass. It's a choice you can make when you're down to business. And then we take policy measures that constantly improve this. I would like to contribute strongly and ambitiously to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101236	The next brief remark is to Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101238	Yes, yes, but since it was 15 years ago that cows went to pasture, where they now stand in a stable, Mr. Rasmus Prehn did not see that the Danes really believe that the milk they drink comes from cows that have been on grass, for that was usually the case. Fifteen years ago, it was the exception that dairy cattle did not go to pasture, today that is the rule. Thinks sir. Rasmus Prehn, that the Danes are well aware of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101311	I would remind the questioner that they say the Minister rather than the name. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101316	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stamp, also for the more comradely tone. It reassures me that we have a good cooperative relationship. I think it is different what the Danes have of knowledge about how agriculture works. I think there is generally a need to bring us city dwellers closer to the country in order to gain a better understanding. I think we need to work with that all the way around from day care centres to schools, etc., so that we can have a better understanding. It is also here that the labelling system can, of course, help to promote awareness about this. I hope that many families will take the conversation across the kitchen table: what are we actually doing here? What's on the carton? What does that have to do with consequences? It's something I'm trying to bring to my family myself. I hope others will do the same. Having said that, it is not all about private initiative. We also need to have a political framework. I'm glad I'm with you there. Mrs Zenia Stamp has made a very ambitious agreement which, among other things, includes: Is there any reason why we should not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution? Then we will have to take other initiatives too. After all, we will also have to discuss animal welfare later, and I would like to see us doing something to promote that we get even more and better animal welfare than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101428	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101429	Yes, I said, sir. Rasmus Prehn. Sometimes you stand up there and forget what your colleagues are called, and then you just say the rapporteur or the Minister, but now I said the name because I have such a close relationship with the Minister, Mr. Rasmus Prehn now I mentioned the name again. I would just like to ask: does the Minister think that it is a positive or negative development that we have witnessed over the last 15 years, when it has become the exception, and not the rule, that cattle are going to pasture?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101455	I have a lot of focus on animal welfare, which is why I think it is a pity that there are fewer cows on grass than there were before. I believe, however, that we must bear in mind that the farmers who have managed this development have done so on the basis of a view of making it as efficient as possible, also energy-efficient, and also so that more can be produced at a lower cost. So I think you've had the best intentions. That is why I think we should be careful not to point the finger, but to have a sound and sensible dialogue on how we are doing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101529	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101531	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. The minister said he was upset that there will be no more cows on the grass. Is it from a feeling or a rational thinking? What's it based on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101549	It is from a point of view of animal welfare. I also mentioned that I am sure that the cattle and milk producers and others who have a different setup have it on the basis of the best intentions. I also mentioned that I have no need to point the finger at anyone. I believe that calculations have been made on the basis of both economic rationality, but perhaps also on the basis of a climate economic rationality, this is what this is all about. There you may be able to produce more milk for lower costs... also energy-wise if you do so without the cows going to grass. So you've had the best intentions. But from the joy and enthusiasm and luckiness of watching these cattle go to grass, you can fret about it emotionally. But I think it is important that we do not stand here pointing our finger at someone and saying that something is wrong. I think that people have had the right intentions when they have changed it the way they have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101648	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101650	The fact is that animal welfare in the Danish stables is very high. It's never been better. This can be seen from the production results of the crews, and it can also be seen from the need for veterinary aid and other things. The animal welfare in the Danish cattle stalls is extremely high, and therefore the Danish milk producers have some fantastic good results. There is nowhere around the world you can produce 1 litre of milk with a less climate footprint than in Denmark because you are simply as effective as you are. I think we have to have that in this equation too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101730	I fully agree with Per Larsen and the Conservative People's Party that there are several things in this context. But because we are good in Denmark, it does not mean that we cannot want even better animal welfare. I think I argued for that before. But it is true that, compared to many other places, we are strong and sharp in Denmark. Now I had the opportunity, together with a business delegation and also Agriculture & Food, to be in the United States, in California, and look at how they, among others. the production of milk. I just have to say that Denmark stands out as uniquely good in terms of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101807	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister, and so the rapporteur's series can begin. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504101824	Thank you for the floor, President. As Social Democratic rapporteur, it is always a pleasure to come after the Minister, because then it is no surprise to anyone what the Social Democrats think about this proposal. However, like the Minister, I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for highlighting animal welfare in the Danish cattle production with this resolution. It is a motion for a resolution which requires the government to make necessary changes to laws and regulations which will ensure that all livestock in Danish agriculture are grassed at least 150 days in the summer. I would like to start by saying that it is important for cows to have the necessary space so that they can move and thrive. I have seen several examples of this during my tour of Danish agriculture and here most recently together with the rapporteur of the Left on our tour of farms where we just visited cattle producers in Jutland. I have also seen cattle coming to grass in the summer, the organic cows, and there is no doubt that you can be nothing but happy in the lid when you see a cow jumping and dancing and watching children and family enjoy it. This is an event that attracts a lot of people every year. And that is why I am personally pleased that in our agricultural agreement, a broad agricultural agreement with the vast majority of parties in this Parliament, from the Enhedslisten, to the middle and to the new citizens, we have set strong ambitions in the area of ecology. What we must bear in mind, on the other hand, is that although the Enhedslisten's proposals have good intentions, they will also have major operational and economic consequences for cattle farms. Such a requirement would mean that special dairy cattle farms and the rearing of cattle for slaughter and young animals would have to make very large investments and changes in their operating practices. This will lead to higher costs, and I also believe that there will be a risk that it will worsen competitiveness, and so we can also risk that production will move abroad, and there is Denmark, as the Minister said, from an animal welfare point of view in general, with and indeed also in several areas far ahead. In addition, the challenge is that more farmers do not have the required grassland to meet such a requirement at all, which may also mean the compulsory cessation of the holding. It does not help animal welfare or the green transition, as we in Denmark are also ahead of that edge and have set very strong and great ambitions in relation to a broad agricultural agreement. We have the ambition to double ecology by 2030. I'm really glad. This will mean that even more cows will be put on grass until 2030, and it is, as you know, a legal requirement that organic cows should be on grass for at least six hours in the summer. There are also good voluntary measures, and we must not forget them either. The animal welfare mark has been mentioned and investment aid schemes have been mentioned in relation to ecology, which is also helping to promote it here. In general, Danish agriculture is at the forefront. We must be even better, in other words, developing a green farm to become even greener and cattle farming to improve animal welfare. I would like to thank Enhedslisten for highlighting this and saying that, with the arguments we have put forward, we cannot support the resolution. However, I would like to acknowledge the Enhedslisten that we will continue to have a continuous focus on animal welfare in general in agriculture. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102232	After all, it is very clear that the economy of social democracy is more important than animal welfare. However, it is a little strange when the rapporteur says that cows must have the necessary space when they have evidence that cows that go to grass have better animal welfare than cows that are only in the stable. Then there are some cows that do not have the necessary space. Now the rapporteur referred back to the Agriculture Agreement, and it is true that we have a doubling of the ecological area there, just as we do in the understanding paper, and we have also had elements in some financial laws that pursue that objective without knowing whether we are going to achieve it completely, and now we are setting out work on an ecological strategy, which I think is very good. But it seems to me that this is the only element of the agricultural agreement that works on animal welfare. Can the rapporteur see other things in the agreement on agriculture that promote animal welfare, among other things? For cows?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102333	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. First of all, I do not think we should be saying that, and I do not hear the rapporteur say that either, but it is just to emphasise the need to talk down Danish agriculture and animal welfare. As I've been informed, 47 percent are coming. I would like to take part in discussing increased animal welfare with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. But in that debate, I think it is very important to have balance points in relation to this, so when Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says that for social democracy it is about economics and so on, I would say that yes, it is also about economics. Because we need a large, robust and healthy agriculture in Denmark, and it doesn't help if we make some rules and some methods in here from this house, which just means that production has to close, that production has to move abroad. So it doesn't make the animals feel any better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102429	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102431	Yes, I am a little puzzled because we sometimes have some decisions to restrict the use of antibiotics, and that has, among other things, been the case. something to do with animal welfare. So I find it a little difficult to understand why we should not be able to make political decisions in here, which actually have a consequence out in reality. That is what the work of the Danish Parliament is all about, and if you look at the problems of animal welfare, then I think we should take it more seriously. Is it okay that there are so many cows that are infected with their hooves because they are exposed to a barn system where they do not come outdoors? Does the rapporteur think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102506	I am absolutely convinced that when we look at Danish agriculture under one, there are several examples that we can do things even better, and I must also say to the rapporteur that there is a difference between stables. In fact, I also have examples that there is a high level of animal welfare compared to the fact that cows that are inside have massage, have plenty of room for them to have good air in the stables. So I do not think you can just say that Danish agriculture over a comb is 100% okay. There I think we can find examples of improvements to animal welfare both in relation to pigs and in relation to cows, and soon we will also have to discuss chickens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102550	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102601	Thank you. The Minister and the previous Social Democrat rapporteur have thoroughly examined the matter, so I shall not repeat that, but simply say that we are on the same line on many lines. Then I would just like to make it clear that we generally have a good, high level of animal welfare in Denmark. The cows have a high milk yield, and there is also what is called a good growth among young cattle, and that can only be done if it is that the animals are well. One might say that if you are a cow, I think it is best to be in Denmark rather than a lot of other places around the world. The well-being of the cows is primarily a matter of good and caring management, regardless of whether the cows are on grass or not. We trust our many skilled farmers and welcome the developments that have also taken place in this area and are in this area. I recognize some of the answers that the Socialist rapporteur, Anders Kronborg, has just given to some of the questions about looking around in the stables. For Danish barn systems have now also undergone strong modernisation in recent years, and you can make sure of this by also trying to visit some of these stables. During recent years, Danish farmers have made massive investments, and almost all dairy cows are today in barns, for example, where more and more space is being given. A modern cattle barn is today also with e.g. open sides, with roof and with good space, and where good and fresh air is ensured, the temperature is the same inside as outside, which means that on many stretches you experience very outdoor conditions in a so-called screened environment. So there has definitely been a focus on making improvements in this area. There is very wide variation between herds and also a grazing guaranteed in relation to mortality etc. There you can just look at the statistics. The advantages and disadvantages of grazing also vary from herd to herd, as the welfare will depend on the specific conditions both in the field and in the barn of the individual herds. There are also a number of good incentives in this area. We think that these are good things which have also been well examined by the Minister, for example. The introduction of the animal welfare mark has made it considerably easier for consumers to choose meat and dairy products from animals with even better animal welfare, and it is of course gratifying to note that there are many and more consumers who are also becoming increasingly focused on it. There has been very strong support and support for the welfare mark by cattle producers, and after just two years of labeling more than one in four dairy cow has actually been registered. It is essential that market-driven development with even better animal welfare be allowed to go through fully and that consumers can thus also contribute to the continued improvement of animal welfare in their choices. Incentives, development and good cooperation are the way forward. We must not stifle a profession which is one of the very best in the world, including animal welfare. Against this background, the Left here rejects the proposal from the Enhedslisten, and I should like to welcome the new citizens and say that they also reject the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102939	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and for the greetings he has received from the New Citizens' Party. I would ask the rapporteur to wait because there are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504102951	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is suggesting that the market should sort this out, that is to say, the problems that may be around animal welfare, and says that if only there are enough consumers who choose some labelled milk, then everything is good. But I would really like to hear what the rapporteur said about the building of new stables and so on.: If we now find ourselves in a situation where one in five cow suffers from inflammation of the hooves, and we know that the inflammation of the skin would be there to a lesser extent if the cows had clean hooves, which can be ensured by sending the cows to grass, and when we know that the skin disorder, dermatitis, is so painful for the cow, does the rapporteur think that we have come far enough with those new stables where there is some fresh air, but some space, that is, when it is the case that there are so many cows suffering from having poor hooves in the fine barns with free ventilation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103051	It's nice to look back in the statistics. I think you should try to rise up and see what it's like here and now. We have, for example. recently been visiting some of the latest modern stables, which exactly gives more space. The cows can walk around and lie down on these large bearings, where there is also straw etc., and you have given them more space in the individual stalls so that they can move freely around. So I am glad that in the Enhedslisten's question there may be such a tiny bit between the lines, too, recognition of the fact that these are indeed massive improvements. Have we come to the full end? No, there are also some decisions that need to be taken and that are about the industry having time for change and improvement, and they are in full swing with that. So I think that's good. So I think you need to update some of these statistics.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103137	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103138	Well, I am fully aware that there are farmers and also cattle farmers who work with animal welfare respect for it. But if, by looking at the cattle database, cows that come to grass are healthier than the cows that go to a barn, then we have a situation where there is something better for them than for them to look reasonable. Will the rapporteur not recognise that there are some positives about cattle being grazed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103209	Well, there is certainly. You can easily have situations where there are some cows that come on grass, but which for other reasons feel bad. And you can find plenty of examples that cows that are in the new modern stables are doing well. So that depends precisely on what I also included in my rapporteur's speech, namely management and management by farmers, and they are generally very good at that. Can there still be a few examples that can, we can say, be improved on? Yes, there is, and this has just been addressed. This is also what we have dealt with in various agreements and on which I think we have a good cooperation here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103244	The next brief remark is to Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103248	Thank you. I was actually on my way up because I had to give Mr. Erling Bonnesen, but then I heard Mr. Erling Bonnesen concludes that the cows are well, because they have a high milk yield, and that it is only possible for the cows to have a high milk yield because they are well. I have to ask a little bit about that, because some of what we are discussing here is, among other things, that cows have inflammation of the skin by their hooves. Well, you can easily have that, while at the same time you have a high milk yield. In addition, I just want to know if Mr. Erling Bonnesen is aware that the very high milk yield actually also has some direct animal welfare consequences, i.e. that the very fact that cows have been bred to produce much more milk than they naturally do also has some animal welfare consequences, for example in relation to udder inflammation, which comes when cows are milked very often. Is the rapporteur aware of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103344	Inflammation may have a cow, whether it provides a high performance or a low performance. I think it is fairly straightforward for most people to get a high yield from a cow and a high increase only if it is that the animals are well, otherwise the opposite would be the case. Are there also some challenges in terms of controlling the breeding, and what are the next breeding targets? Yes, there will always be, and we have good people to look at that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103412	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103414	In fact, I think that is a completely wild conclusion drawn by the rapporteur. Does that mean that Mr. Erling Bonnesen believes that a cow cannot have a bad life while producing a lot of milk?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103428	The SF's rapporteur may have all sorts of speculative ideas in relation to it, and the SF's rapporteur himself must vouch for that. I've answered that one time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103442	The next brief remark is to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103446	Thank you so much. And thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I would like to start by thanking you for the good cooperation that we have every day. I know that the rapporteur from the Left is both pragmatic and solution-oriented and also looks at Danish agriculture being able to manage, but also being competitive in relation to, for example. animal welfare. Now that we are discussing cows on grass, it is also, as I understand it, about freedom of movement on these cows. There I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: what is the position of the Left in relation to the stables, where the cows are almost strapped and do not have the necessary freedom of movement? Is the Left open to further measures to actually ban these enclosures so that cows, even if they are not on grass, will have more freedom of movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103537	As I recall just now, we have agreements on the phasing out of tied cows and old housing houses, and there we are, of course, about the agreements that we have concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103547	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103549	That is correct, but there is also now an opportunity to extend it to, among other things. to apply to dairy cattle in general terms. So I just want to ask you so quietly not because I demand such a clear answer, but just want to be able to point me in such a way: how does Mr. Erling Bonnesen, that the Left is there when, for example, we find ourselves. Is this a general debate on the housing of all cattle?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103615	There I would say that we have the agreements that are now in place and we stand by them. And if there are some other areas where there is reason to look at it, then we are ready to look at it, but we must then have analyzed that in more detail before a conclusion is drawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103630	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504103640	Thank you. I think I would like to begin by thanking Enhedslisten for this proposal that all cattle in Danish agriculture should be entitled to at least 150 days on grass during the summer. We in the Socialist People's Party think this is a very fair demand, and I think it is a minimum of what can be offered to these cows. I simply do not think that we can offer cows, that they never see the light of day and have to stand up for their whole lives, even though they in nature need to go out to grass, it is in relation to their health, their hooves, etc. That is why it is a good proposal. Cows are big animals. They need plenty of space, and they need to be able to be out, also in order to avoid conflicts in the stables, as we also see in the Danish production. So these diseases that cows get are quite serious. It is a major welfare problem when cows have skin inflammation in their hooves, and that is 20%. of the Danish cows exposed to it. This is actually a well-known problem elsewhere in animal production. This welfare problem arises when the hooves have contact with manure. We also see in chicken production how ammonia is harmful to their feet. That is why it is so important that animals come out. And I guess it doesn't really surprise me so much that it's a need that animals have. In addition, I also think it is worth saying a little about the dairy cows that we are discussing now already have quite a horrible life just to say it as it is. One thing is that 20%. suffering from the disease in the hooves, another thing is that we also have a production where calves are systematically taken from mothers 12-24 hours after birth. In conventional production it is 12 hours after and in organic it is 24 hours after. This leads to huge welfare problems, because of course the calf and mother are closely linked. In addition, we have arranged the production in such a way that we regard the cows as being primarily milking machines. There's not one bar we put down to make these animals have a good life. That is why so many of them can be locked up without ever letting them out. After all, this is a procedure that has been under discussion for many, many years, and a problem that has been debated for a long time, but it has gone the wrong way. Looking at it 15 years ago, it was 75%. of the cows that came to grass, while today it is only 21-25 per cent. This is an extremely sad development, and it is not something we had just discovered. I remember that it has been debated in the past, and the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, who has just entered the room, has also advocated better conditions for these animals when the problem was not as great as it is today. I think this is a very, very sad development. Then I think that some of the conclusions drawn here from the speaking chair of the Folketing are quite crazy. So to say, because the animal has a high milk yield, that it produces a lot of milk, one can necessarily conclude that the animal is well, makes absolutely no sense. Some of the animal welfare problems we have come as a consequence of an unnaturally high milk yield. The very fact that we have bred animals as if they were milking machines, so that they can produce as much milk as possible, means that they must be milked very and very often, and this results in udder inflammation and suffering for these animals. So there is a lot to change if we are to create better conditions for these cows, and I really think it is a perfectly reasonable and noble requirement to make them have the right to 150 days of grass in the summer. That is why the SF also supports this proposal. It's only right. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104046	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mr Seligman. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104049	Thank you so much. There should be no doubt whatsoever that this is a sympathetic speech made by the rapporteur, and I also note that the rapporteur is extremely committed to this issue. By the way, there are many of us who are, but I also think it is important that we are just a little bit realistic about this. Because, as I understand it, if all dairy cows are to be grazed, as I understand it, the rapporteur argues in favour, then they also have to go back because they have to be milked twice a day. This can be a very great challenge for several large farms, partly the land is not always close to them, partly there are no tunnels where these cattle are going through, and partly there are no roads and so on. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he is of the opinion that if this demand is introduced, it will result in major changes in order for this to be possible and, as the farms now look, it will not actually be possible from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104150	Of course, this cannot be done overnight, and of course it is the case when we have set up a production where the majority of cows do not have access to an outdoor area, that it will also be major changes that need to be made. And the Minister described it as major financial and operational consequences. I agree with that. But in the SF we are not afraid of it either if we are going to have less meat production and less milk production. This is, in fact, a prerequisite for achieving our climate targets. The whole challenge facing us is that we must have less animal production, which in turn is of higher quality, which is therefore more climate-related and where animal welfare is better. And this will be a good part of the transition. Then we can have less milk production, but where animals, in turn, have a life that is a little easier to defend. In addition, the Enhedslisten has not really set a deadline in relation to when this is going to happen, so I really think that there is quite a lot of freedom of action for the government to organise it in a way that will not be completely impossible to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104256	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104257	That was a clear speech, and thank you very much to the rapporteur for that. The rapporteur confirms that this will mean some very major changes for the industry. I have been able to find figures back from 2015, where you have figured this out, and I can see that you have estimated that it will cost approx. 5 billion kr. for the industry, where, for 15 years each year, there will be an additional operating cost of between 200 million. and 700 million. kr. So I should just like to ask the rapporteur: if this is to be possible, will farmers themselves have to finance it, or is the SF ready to open the floodgates, if that is to say, as increased support for agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104335	Now I do not know the actual figures, but there is plenty of money in Danish agriculture, and we already have very large subsidies which can be converted and sent in the direction of those producers who choose to give their cows room and opportunity to get outside. I would also like to say that, of course, we are also ready to contribute to this transformation, because there are a great many farmers in the future who need to switch from animal production to plant production, and they need to be helped and not just left on the platform. So, of course, we are ready to help find funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104410	The next brief remark is to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104411	Thank you. The SF's rapporteur has on several occasions signalled very clearly that the SF's objective is largely to phase out animal production. Can the SF's rapporteur also confirm here from the platform today that the objective is essentially to phase out animal production?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104432	It depends on how to define largely, but it is SF's long-term goal that we should phase out conventional animal husbandry because we believe that it is ethically irresponsible to treat animals in the way you do today, and we would much rather have a production where you take account of animals and where it is on a much smaller scale. That is what is needed in a climate perspective, and that is what our ethical claim is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104454	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104458	Thank you to the rapporteur for supporting the proposal and standing on the side of the cows when it comes to animal welfare. A new animal welfare law has now been adopted in the Folketing, which concludes that animals are sensory and living beings, and this also applies to the production animals that are in agriculture. And that means taking a different starting point to the cows than has been done in the past. We are, of course, faced with the fact that there will surely be negotiations on some regulations which will then have to implement that law. And I would really like to know whether the rapporteur has heard of a timetable for these negotiations. After all, it is a long time ago that we adopted the animal welfare law, which hopefully brings some improvements for the animals in production farming in Denmark. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there is any input to what we should have secured through the announcement, since we cannot now obtain a majority in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104602	I have not seen a timetable for implementing the Animal Welfare Act. In fact, I think it is a scandal that we have not got started yet. I'm serious. So, the former Minister for Food promised us that we would get started soon, but then we got a new minister in this area, and it's just being pulled and pulled. And that means, of course, that we have a new animal welfare law now, which we have not implemented at all in a de facto amendment of the regulations, and that is a huge problem for the animals out there. I think this could be a concrete change that could be made in the negotiations on new regulations. But we must also have a fight with fur production in Denmark. I also believe that we need to get the hens out of the cages, in other words to shut down the production of caged eggs. I think it is crucial that pigs are given the right to some more space to be on, that is, 0.65 m2 is the standard right for a pig in conventional animal production. I mean, the calves need more time with their mothers. There are a lot of things the SF would like to bring to these negotiations, but the government has delayed the process. I hope something happens soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104703	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104704	Well, I hope so too. And that is a scandal for the Minister who is just coming into the Chamber. And it is a good thing that he has heard and heard about the series of announcements that need to be made for different production animals in order to improve animal welfare. I am pleased that the SF has this commitment to animal welfare, and I also note that this is something we share broadly throughout the parliamentary basis. So here we must have a case where there is something that can be prioritised. So I look forward to the negotiations, which the Minister hopefully will soon convene.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104737	I would just like to point out that the Minister has been present throughout the debate here. It's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104742	Well, I'm also looking forward to the negotiations, and I hope they'll be here soon. I remember asking when we were going to have negotiations on the phasing out of cage eggs a year and a half ago, and there I got the answer that this would happen by the summer of 2021. So it hasn't happened yet. So I look forward to having negotiations on animal welfare soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104804	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104807	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I welcome the honesty shown by the rapporteur here, who is advocating the rapporteur's objective of phasing out production animals. But if we pursue the idea that we are phasing out our milk production and our meat production on cattle, which we are discussing here today, then everything else will just happen, that production will have to be moved to other countries. And knowing that Denmark has the absolute minimum climate footprint in relation to the production of 1 litre of milk, would it not be harmful to the climate if this production were to take place in other countries with less efficiency and greater climate footprints?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104854	I have to start by saying that what I said before was that we had a long-term objective of phasing out conventional animal production, which is not the same as the fact that SF will close all animal production, as the rapporteur claims. The rapporteur is right, of course, that if we are to reduce Danish meat production, it is not enough that only Denmark is doing so. It is the whole world that needs a change in our food systems, so we are getting away from animal production and moving to vegetable production. It is at the heart of the green transition that this is going to be a global agenda, which is why I am pleased to see that several countries are taking the lead in these years, among others. The Netherlands, which is currently taking quite impressive initiatives in terms of reducing their livestock production. We must also move that way. It is absolutely crucial for the changeover, both that we change our production, but also that we change our consumption habits.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104951	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504104952	I would like to ask whether the rapporteur believes that less cheese will be consumed worldwide because Danish milk production is being cut down. But what just made me react was that the rapporteur would like to get the chickens out of the cages. Does it not worry the rapporteur that chickens which do not go into cages have a much higher mortality rate than those which go into cages, that they simply die of diseases when they go into large flocks because they are miserable because chickens cannot have an acceptable level of social behaviour if they go into very large flocks?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105035	So, with the first question, it is again assumed that SF believes that we should completely cut down Danish milk production, and that is not the case. So I do not think that remark makes any sense. In the past, compared to the phasing out of cage eggs, I have heard Mr. Per Larsen emphasizes exactly the mortality when we have discussed this, but it is a very narrow way of seeing animal welfare. Because it is true that when animals are taken out of cages, a higher mortality rate can occur because there is a greater tendency for animals to become infected when they are with other animals, but there are many other welfare parameters that are central here and there are major welfare problems with animals in cages.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105117	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105127	Thank you. In 2006 the Animal Health Council made a recommendation regarding cattle, namely that all cattle should be grazed. At that time it was 75%. of all Danish cattle that came on grass, but 25%. Didn't. It was then the 25 per cent that the Animal Health Council thought should also be allowed to go to grass. Sixteen years have passed and, unfortunately, developments have moved in exactly the opposite direction. Today it's 75%. of all cattle that don't go to grass. It has gone very fast and it is a development that we have never taken a political position on. I also think it is a development that most Danes are not aware of, perhaps just with the exception of those who live next to these very, very large stables with many cows who never see the light of day, they may know what the reality is. But I think that the vast majority of Danes believe, as something completely natural, that when they take a carton of Danish milk out of the fridge in the supermarket, as of course comes from a cow that has been on grass. That was how it was, after all, the rule in Denmark that cows were put on grass. It is something new that has happened over the last 15 years that we now have cattle production or milk production, where it is the exception that cows go to pasture. That is why there is nonsense when you say that you cannot change that trend. This is a development that has gone the wrong way very quickly and, of course, this development can be reversed. There are hardly any of us today who will support this proposal, but I might as well announce that we will, but I do not think any of us imagine that this is something we will do tomorrow. Of course, this must be done with a realistic timetable. But I would like to commend the Enhedslisten for raising it today. Sometimes I am a little critical of all these motions for resolutions, because I often take the view that it is necessary to keep up with the debates that are there. But did this fill something in the agricultural negotiations? On the contrary! The more efficient milk production, the better, and the cows are the most effective when they stand in a stable throughout their lives. Unfortunately, this is the case with very effective animal production, because the less natural conditions you give to animals, the more effective they become, but the further away you move them from what they come from. I also agree with some of those who have been up here before and refer to the animal welfare law, because it put a new perspective on animal welfare. Where we used to see animal welfare as the absence of suffering, we have now introduced a different perspective about animals being sensory beings. There is also something about natural needs. A cow has a natural need to go and graze, but cows do not have a natural need to enter their entire lives and not see the light of day, even if it increases milk production. That is why we are going to vote in favour today because it was a subject which, unfortunately, we were not allowed to take one of the agricultural negotiations. In fact, we tried to bring in the animal perspective, because we are concerned that the climate perspective, which we know God as well, leads to an improvement in animal husbandry that removes animals longer and longer from their natural source, and we are not in favour of that. The Enhedslisten must also be praised for raising this issue, because we have been waiting for two years for the implementation of the Animal Welfare Act in regulations for each animal species. We have not yet begun to do so. So for the matter of knowing your visiting time, which is usually what I am shooting down motions for resolutions, that is to say you have to know your visiting time and register it in the debates that are relevant, I would say that that argument does not exist now, because we have not been invited to relevant negotiations on this, and that is very topical and very relevant. I therefore believe that we have the Danes on our side here, because I think that if they find out that the reality is that the milk they buy comes from cows who have never seen the light of day, never been on grass, I think they will be as offended as I am today. That is why, for the third time, I have to say that we are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105608	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is for Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105613	Thank you very much, and it is very brief to the rapporteur, Mrs Zenia Stampe, and that is because it has now been said a few times, and the rapporteur from the Radical Left also says that the rapporteur believes that most Danes, when buying a litre of milk, believe that the cow has been on the grass, and in preparation for this proposal I have of course also delved into the matter, etc., but I have not been able to find that claim. So I would just like to say to my own information and perhaps also to others ask Mrs Zenia Stampe whether she has evidence to claim that all Danes, when buying a litre of milk, believe that the cow has been on grass. On the contrary, I think that the Danes know very well that they have a sense of what Danish agriculture is like and that it is very different, and that they are therefore also guided by the marks when they, for example, look after them. are active consumers at the cooling disc, looking for the eco-label, looking for the animal welfare mark, etc. However, it may well be that there is something I have missed, so I would just like to ask whether it is a remark that Mrs Zenia Stampe has snuffed herself out to, or whether it is something that is actually evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105714	But the rapporteur is well aware of that answer. 'Cause I said, I think. But I think it would be extremely interesting to carry out a study, and I think it would be a good idea to consider providing information to consumers, so if we were to be allowed to put a small mark on the milk coming from cows who have not been on grass, where it said that this cow has not been on grass, then I think we would see a rather drastic drop in the sale of this milk. But that's something I think. It's not something I know. But I think it might be interesting to have it unveiled, and I have to say that I was surprised, and those I have talked to on the subject have also been surprised. I experience, and I think it is a common opinion, that we have a very high animal welfare in Denmark, and this means among other things that cows naturally come to grass and they do not stand in a stable all their lives without ever seeing the light of day.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105810	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105811	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I myself am very interested in and enthusiastic about information about Danish agriculture and I also welcome the kindness of Danish agriculture. And whether it is pig producers or milk producers or any other profession, I actually find that they are opening the barn doors to school classes and to other interested people, so that you can see how it really is on the farm. My own favorite little clip and I almost don't know if it's gonna be okay to retell it in here in the Parliament Hall... is from this TV series...Nana... which was back in the 1980s... where the school class is also on farm visits... and Anders says: "No, you've seen that the cow has four...beeps. And then someone answers that my dad does. So I really believe that Mrs Zenia Stampe is right about the fact that this information exercise is really, really important, and I would like to discuss whether we can do more from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105902	Frankly, I don't know exactly what to answer that question. I think that the rapporteur and I are equally old, so I have also seen Nana. But there is something that I find difficult about this debate on animal welfare. We, who have gained insight into animal welfare, would really like to inform others about it, but we cannot be allowed to get into the stables and take pictures, because it is the pictures that speak their clear language. When supermarkets sometimes put camera or video clips on the eggs, so that you can see how the different eggs have been produced and how the different hens have felt, it has a very clear effect. But it is a very, very big obstacle to this discussion about animal welfare that we do not have any insights and images from animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504105956	Thank you to the rapporteur. Speaking time is well over. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110011	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur for raising this issue. However, as it is worded, I have to say that the debate upsets me a little, because it bears the hallmark of wanting to talk down animal welfare in cattle production. And if you know about animal welfare and how it has developed over the years, you just have to say that the Danish riders have never felt better than they do today. It is quite indisputable that farmers are doing everything they can to make their animals feel as good as possible. If you get into the stables and I should like to take Mrs Zenia Stampe out and see some of the stables you can easily see cows standing in, but some of them actually have sea views, because the stables are so open, and if they are close to the water, they also have that possibility. You see the light of day, so there is a need for some kind of information there, and I would like to take the radical rapporteur to see how it is going on out there. The cows go to some large stables where all possible due consideration has been given to doing it as well as possible, so that the cows have as good a life as possible, so that they produce as much milk as possible, but they also grow as old as possible, so that they have a very good life, so that they too can grow old, because it costs a great deal of money if you have to replace the cows. They are fed better than ever, stables are better arranged than ever, and animal welfare has never been better. In addition, this very efficient production reduces CO2 Perhaps you are also trying to make such a romantic picture that someone has a bunch of cows that go out and feel really, really lovely and wonderful. But one could imagine that some of these large herds would have to let the cows out, and it is the herds with 1,000 cows, that is to say 1,000 cows, that are standing out in some folds on a rainy day and fortunately we have some of them during the year. And there it is certainly not desirable for a large group of cows to go out. And we also know, if we have seen it, that they are stepping up the fields violently and doing some great damage, and that is certainly not to the satisfaction of the health of the cows. After all, their hoof health will be seriously damaged if it is the case that they step up everything, and that is what happens if it is large herds that are let out. In fact, we also see cases where the cows have free access to going out, but they simply stay inside the stables because there are such good facilities inside the stables that they do not want to get out, and we can take the picture in relation to ourselves if we are let out in bright sunshine from one day to the next and have to go out there all day. That's quite unpleasant. I am also thinking, in relation to the challenges of milking robotic systems, what it is like to make it stick together if it is the case that you have to have a large herd of cows driven out in the fields if there is to be room for it. After all, we have the crews, we cannot ignore that with 1,000 and more cows, and there is a huge amount of land to be set aside, and that will also mean that the cows will have to walk several kilometres to get out there where there is some fresh grass. There are several things in this, including the argument. The rapporteurs argue among other things: in order that laminitis, which is a disease among cattle, can be eliminated if cows go to pasture. It's totally wrong. It is the case that laminitis occurs if the pH of the rumen of the ruminants becomes too uneven and jumps and down, and that is exactly what happens if the cows are closed to grass. Because then you let them out and offer them some food that has a rapid transferability and thus gives a pH variation in the rumen, which then helps to promote laminitis. The cows holding them are given a uniform feed 24 hours a day, which ensures that they have a completely stable pH in the rumen so that they do not get sick. So this proposal is in every way unfavorable to animal welfare, and that is why I think it is a bad proposal and we are of course also voting against it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110503	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110507	Thank you for your speech and thank you for reading our arguments. It says something about more diseases. It is estimated that one in five Danish cow suffers from digital dermatitis, which is a inflammation of the skin, which among other things. is obtained by contact with manure. Dermatitis is very painful and can cause a large part of the rear part of the hoove to be destroyed. The disease can be prevented by, inter alia: to keep hooves clean and dry, and it can then happen by coming out on grass instead of being in a stable all the time. So, quite frankly: when so many cows have one in five Danish cows that have the problem, I do not think we have reached the goal of working on animal welfare. That's why we're making this proposal. In other words, it is not for cows to come out and have a sea view, as the rapporteur says. It's kind of to get closer to the natural behavior of a cow. And the fact that a cow itself has so much space that it can lie down at a reasonable distance to other cows is thus part of a cow's natural behavior. There are plenty of pluses in the fact that cows are going to grass. Can't the rapporteur see that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110616	Now the rapporteur refers to digital dermatitis and digital dermatitis is a problem that exists in the herds. The fact is that if a cow gets lame and has trouble moving, it means a huge loss of production. And if you look up the calculations, it typically costs about 2,500 kroner. per cow, if it is the case that the cow is infected with digital dermatitis and you do not arrange for it to be treated. So that's something you hit very strongly. If you go out in the stables, you will soon be able to see whether that disease occurs to a considerable extent simply because the cows are lame. It does not work in the livestock systems, and that is why you intervene and have it treated at the same time as you discover it. Then the cow will be free of its suffering and it will be able to continue its milk production at the optimum level.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110713	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110717	The rapporteur now referred to the fact that this proposal could not be implemented because there are so many cows on each farm. But it is there that we politically do not have us in the Enhedslisten, but others have failed by the fact that you do not have these restrictions on how many animal units you can have on each farm. Because it is quite true that if you have a thousand cows, it is very difficult to have your pastures in such a way that it can be rational, to get the cows out and home, i.e. to move them twice a day. I fully acknowledge that. But it is because there are no restrictions on how many animals you must have. Does the rapporteur not see that this is the context? You could just have the maximum. 250 cows per day crew; then you could probably find a way to keep the fields close.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110755	So, one of the reasons why we in Denmark can produce milk that worldwide has the absolute minimum climate footprint per. produced litres is, of course, that you have a very efficient production, where the cows have a good life and where they efficiently produce enough on the feed you offer them. I think we have to demand that; and then we have to say that if it is the case that we phase out milk production in Denmark, then that milk must be produced elsewhere, where the climate impression everything else will be equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110830	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504110846	Thank you. And also thank you for the proposal. It is, of course, a heated debate that such a proposal can give. And I think that the vast majority of people in the Danish People's Party want to have as good animal welfare as possible. And we have been involved in all conciliations that have resulted in better animal welfare. But we also want us to have a production of food in Denmark and also that we have a competitive production of food in Denmark, and we do not want there to be too much leakage compared to the framework conditions that we impose on the industry. And if you now put these framework conditions down on the industry and said that all cows are going to grass, then I think the cows would be happy about it and that animal welfare would certainly be better. But what would probably happen was that part of the milk production we have in Denmark today would be phased out, and then we no longer had it in Denmark. Then it would happen elsewhere. That is why we can discuss how many cows would actually be better off with this proposal. Because I really don't think the Danes would start buying less milk down in Brugsen; they just wanted to buy some milk that wasn't produced in Denmark. So that is why it is a proposal that is so nodded and said: 'Well, that is what we would like to see'. But politics is such that there is always a consequence when you make a decision. And that is why I think it is better to talk about what it is that we can do about the challenges that may be in our production. And it may be in pig production, it may be in cattle production, etc. etc. How do we constantly create the best possible animal welfare when we also have food production in Denmark? And we are very happy to take part in that debate. And then I really think you should be careful just to make such a picture that it's so nice to see when cows are put on grass etc. etc. And it's also very nice. But it is also production animals, and it is also about the fact that it is a product that we sell, that we can capitalise and that we use as consumers and much else. So we cannot support the proposal here, but we certainly agree with the proposers that it is important to constantly focus on animal welfare and it does not matter whether it is pets or production animals or what animals we are talking about. When they are in human custody, we also have a great responsibility for having as good animal welfare as possible. So we cannot vote in favour of the proposal here. But if I read the proposal in such a way that it is also about animal welfare, that is not what it says, but when I read it down, I think it does so, that is what I understand you want to have a debate on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111124	Thank you. There are no comments. And then we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111144	Thank you for the debate so far, what is at stake is that Enhedslisten has put forward this proposal that the Danish Parliament instructs the government to make the necessary changes to laws and regulations to ensure that all livestock in Danish agriculture must be grassed at least 150 days in the summer. Sometimes we have to return to what we proposed, because the debate can sometimes come around widely. So that is the proposal and it is without a timetable. It is, of course, a very free proposal that the government can seize and say: that was a good proposal and we will make a good timetable for how it can be implemented. But that is not where we have yet reached. I note that the SF and Radicals support the proposal and I would like to thank you for that. Then I also note that there are other parties who are concerned about animal welfare and give priority to it, even if they do not support the specific proposal, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for that. It is true that over time the Danish People's Party has also helped to address the importance of animal welfare in relation to our agricultural production. And that is what we have to go on to these negotiations, to which the Minister has to call, about how something good comes from the adoption of a new animal welfare law which will result in announcements being made for each production animal, so that something is clarified so that we can live up to the law that our livestock are also sentient and living beings. That is why there are, of course, some factors that need to be taken into account, and in the case of cattle, it might be appropriate for cows to go to pasture 150 days a year during the summer. It would be very natural to live up to the animal welfare law. I think there are very good reasons for tabling this motion for a resolution. We have 1.5 million cattle in Denmark, so that is something that should be taken seriously. You can see the trend that is: 15 years ago came about. 75% of all cows on grass, and today we have reached or returned to, we should say that it is only 21-25 per cent that is going to grass. And out of that cattle, half is so organic, where in the ecological rules there is this specific requirement that the cows should be on grass 150 days a year. What is the further development if we do not take action on this? Well, it can easily be a structural development where individual cattle farms are becoming larger and larger, and so there are not just pluses in that. As far as I could google myself, the largest milk producer in Denmark is a farmer who has 3,400 cows. And it goes without saying that it is something that is very difficult to organise, that is to say, to get that cattle on the grass. But we sometimes have to stop and ask: is the structural development that is going on in agriculture, because it is the economy that is the main ruler rather than the concern for animal welfare, something that we should take action against? There is no doubt that when the limits on how many animal units must be on each farm were abolished, some people in agriculture thought it was great, while there were environmentalists who thought it was a retrograde step to liberalise so much. And with regard to cattle farms, I have to say that this was a huge disadvantage. There has been such a little debate about whether cattle are well in the modern stables there are. It is clear that there is work to be done to ensure that cattle are well, but one has to note that there is no objective at all. And when you have organic farming which shows that you can actually have milk production, even when the cattle are going to grass, then I think there is something to learn from. If you look at the debate, it has also been said that there are some climate aspects, and that is correct. And there we are where we in Denmark have too many livestock, and we also have it globally. In other words, when we have an agricultural production of 80%. of the area is used for feed in Denmark, and globally it is 70%, so we are a place where animal production fills immensely, and where you could feed a growing population much more easily if you reduced your animal food intake. So there is also a development trail in this where you can look into the fact that when we are going to have a sustainable agriculture, it is an agriculture with fewer livestock. It was mentioned in the debate that we tighten the requirements here in Denmark, then there may be some production moving abroad. If you look at what the Environmental Economic Council has assessed about it, it is not a one-to-one relocation of production from Denmark if we tighten up our demands. Among other things, it has. have been discussed in connection with creating a CO2 so we will have a debate again on agriculture, framework conditions, etc., where it would be very good if we could link these considerations, so that at the same time we discuss both animal welfare and climate and make the right decisions. I look forward to having a committee procedure in which we can also resolve various disagreements that have been raised in the debate. And then it is a proposal that the Enhedslisten will go back to the Parliamentary Chamber so that we can have a vote on who is for and who is against the proposal. Thank you for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111738	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111740	Thank you. After all, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has on several occasions clearly signalled that we want animal production in Denmark to be phased out. Can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also confirm in this Chamber today that at least as soon as possible the aim is to phase out conventional livestock production in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111803	I do not think we can come to the conclusion that we want all animal production to be phased out. I think we can find quotes where rapporteurs like myself and Per Clausen have said that halving Danish pig production would be a good step. I think that halving animal production in Denmark to pursue some climate objectives would be very good. How soon can this happen? Yes, we do not have a strict timetable for this, but we have to say that with the agricultural trade that is there, it is something that must be dealt with. And our position in the Enhedslisten is that we must convert the whole of agriculture into organic farming and that, at the same time, we must give priority to having much more nature and forest. So this is a reduced agricultural area, which we also have as a vision in our policy. It is therefore a development of Danish agriculture and not a dismantling that we are in favour of. So we have a clear picture that it can be done and that it would be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111909	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111911	Specifically in the livestock sector: Can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur confirm that Enhedslisten's goal is to phase out conventional cattle production in Denmark as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504111924	No, that would be a switch from conventional farming to organic farming in many places. There are a lot of ecologists who have been on that journey. That is quite normal, so it is not a conflict between the conventional and the ecological that I am talking about. I am talking into trying to persuade some more conventional farmers to park the poison syringe and turn it into ecology. To some extent, it is actually easier for a conventional cattle producer to convert to ecology than it is for example. is for a conventional pig producer. So I appeal to the cattle farmers to convert to ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112002	Thank you. There are no comments. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112030	The debate is open. It is first the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112041	Thank you. In Denmark, we have one of the world's most ambitious climate laws. We need to reduce our CO2 emissions by 2030 compared to 1990, and we need to be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. It is clear that it poses quite major challenges to our entire society, not least to our energy sector. Fortunately, we are well on our way. We have been on the move in our country for decades with a green transition that has ensured much more renewable energy, but this is, of course, a conversion that we have escalated now, with the level of ambition being raised, with the funds allocated increasing and, fortunately, there is also broad agreement in the Folketing that we should do more. We have already taken decisions during this period of government, such as: ensure a quadrupling of our offshore wind turbine capacity. But we also know that we need to do much more. That is why the government also presented Denmark a few weeks ago, with the focus that not only do we need to accelerate the green transition to the climate, we also need to do so because of the security of supply situation and the security policy situation that has arisen in the wake of Putin's invasion of Ukraine. As part of that plan, we have said that we believe that there is a need and that it will be realistic to make, a quadruple of the total capacity of solar and wind energy on land. Some people will probably ask: why now on land, because we are so good at offshore wind turbines, and we have great ambitions about this at sea, and there are not the same potential nuisances for neighbours as there can be on land? The answer to that question is that it is not a either-or, but is a both- and. One of the advantages of renewable energy on land is that it is cheap, it is fast and thus will also be able to help us on the short track. It takes a long time to build a offshore wind farm. In particular, it takes a long time to make energy islands a la those we have planned on Bornholm and out in the North Sea, but on land there are therefore opportunities for more flexible and quicker to develop with a cheap green energy source. We are, of course, very aware that this could lead to certain disadvantages for people living in the places where these renewable energy plants are set up whether it is solar or wind energy, but we have done things in the past to address it by among other things. to create a system that ensures financial compensation for the people it is about. To the very specific proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten, I would say that solar cells will certainly be a very important part of our policy in the future. We estimate that one of the ways one could create the quadruple that we would like to have is by doubling wind energy on land and tenfold solar energy on land. And, on the other hand, we believe that it makes a great deal of sense to draw up a genuine strategy. That is why I would like to thank Enhedslisten for presenting this proposal and also say that the government supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112424	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112429	I would like to say thank you for that reception and that the government therefore supports the Enhedslisten proposal. Now that we have to destroy the good atmosphere, I would like to ask why the government has not followed up the report adopted by the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee on 30 June 2021, because that is about 10 months ago. Among other things, it says:: The majority consider it appropriate both to be able to go further into the technical aspects of PV installation and to enter into concrete policy discussions on how to create a solar PV strategy and planning as part of overall energy planning. The majority believe that there is a need to break down silo thinking among the authorities in order to ensure an energy planning of which solar installations are part. Has this dialogue been held between the various ministers who have sought to break down these silos?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112526	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112529	Yes, I think we do. After all, we have had several consultations here in the Folketing, where several ministers have been represented and where we have had the opportunity to discuss this not only with the rapporteur, but also with the whole committee. I would say that it is also as a result of the internal process of government that we are now standing where we can propose a quadrupling of VE on land, including perhaps up to a ten-fold increase in solar energy on land. So I note, of course, that the rapporteur was positive for 10 seconds, but it might have been expected that the rapporteur had been positive for 20 or perhaps even 30 seconds, since this must be water on the rapporteur's mill. To put it mildly, it is a very strong acceleration of both the pace and the level of ambition with regard to the expansion of solar cells in Denmark, which we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112625	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112628	I get a lot of inquiries from council members who want more solar cells to come up on municipal buildings. I am here with a request from a municipality working to become CO2 They have calculated what it will cost if they have to invest in such solar cells, and if you put this introduction tariff to zero, then it is something that cannot even earn itself home in 25 years. And it is a bit crazy that we have a framework for municipalities that is worse than for business, which means that there is simply no economy at all in it, even if you look at it over several years. Can't the Minister see that there's a corner of this that we have to deal with in the strategy we're going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112706	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112709	Yes, we must certainly look at the different framework conditions that apply in Denmark, including, of course, what challenges they face in the municipalities and regions, versus the challenges they face as a private person. There are some tradeoffs there, and there are also some political choices we have to make, and that is one of them. One of the reasons why we think it is quite reasonable for us to draw up a common overall strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112734	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we move on to the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504112754	Thank you. Our world picture was turned upside down when Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February. And not only are we in a climate crisis, but we are now also in a security crisis and we are in an energy crisis. Energy prices were already on the sky, and that situation has only got worse. Russia has already closed the supply of gas to Poland and Bulgaria and, as part of the EU sanctions package, we have banned the import of Russian coal. Suddenly, energy policy has become a security policy. Our answer is very clear: the green transition must be even more rapid so that we can be independent of Russian gas and fossil energy. Denmark and Europe must instead be driven by green energy, solar cells and wind turbines, both on land and on water, to ensure our security of supply and for the sake of climate. The resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten proposes to draw up a strategy and plan for the expansion of solar cells in Denmark. We agree that this is needed because we need more renewable energy, not only solar cells but also wind turbines, both on land and on water. This must be done quickly, but, of course, it must also be done in a good dialogue. In the government's project • Denmark can more II • we propose to establish an additional 1-4 GW of sea wind by the end of 2030, and this comes on top of the many agreements on sea winds that we have already made. In addition, we propose that there should be a fourfold increase in the production of renewable energy from the sun and from the wind. It is a great deal of work to speed up the expansion of green energy, which is why we also need to remove some of the barriers that delay and delay some renewable energy projects. We agree with Enhedslisten in that. There is also a tool catalogue on the way in cooperation with the municipalities, which aims to promote expansion with both solar cells and wind turbines. In addition, we have focused on supporting the expansion of solar cells. We have, for example. increased the compensation for PV neighbours and removed legal barriers in order to exploit roofing areas for solar cells. That is also part of history. Finally, I would just like to thank Enhedslisten for putting forward this proposal, which, as I said, we share very much along the way and therefore support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113016	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113020	Thank you for that reception. It sounds very good that there is such work going on, looking at what the barriers are that need to be changed, and that there is also a dialogue with the municipalities. For many years now I have heard the wishes of the municipalities just to be allowed to put up more solar cells, and that is not driven by the fact that they like to earn something from it. In some places, there are also schools that would like there to be a panel to show students what energy consumption there is and how much of it is covered by solar cells. I believe that this can have a good educational significance. I have also run into some who ask: why should there be restrictions on how large installations can be built on such a municipal building? I have also listened to the fact that the PV associations are out to say that you have to raise the limit on the size of the facilities you have to have in each place. If, like, it is something that can cover the institution's own consumption, can the rapporteur not also see that it must be fair to be self-sufficient in renewable energy at the individual institution in the municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113123	Thank you very much for the question. It is already possible today for municipalities to set up a solar system. I know that this is not as advantageous as many municipalities would have liked. But sometimes the debate points out that it is an impossibility for them, and after all it is not, especially if it is something that is also driven by the desire to make a difference by setting up a plant. Now, of course, we need to have some discussions on renewable energy and how to ensure more of it. There is no doubt that, in relation to what we have put forward, we see that solar energy is going to play a major role, and that is why, of course, it is also something that we need to discuss further, in other words how we can best speed up the development of more solar energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113213	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113215	I hope that with that dialogue with the municipalities you really get to the bone and get some conditions done that are okay. I have been sent an e-mail where there was such a fine spreadsheet, and then you could see that if they invested such four solar installations, it would result in losses for the first 25 years. The municipality then has a CO2 I really hope that we get to the goal of getting something done that the municipalities can use.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113254	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113256	Thank you. I have not seen that particular example, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is running, but I would also just like to say from here that we are looking forward to discussing further how we can have a stronger expansion with renewable energy, including a lot more solar energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113313	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left, is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113321	Thank you for the floor. In fact, in the Left, we agree with the proposers that we should have more political focus on renewable energy from solar cells. Solar cell technology is an environmentally friendly technology in high growth. Today, PV technology is economically competitive and must be expected to have a decisive impact on the future of electricity supply. It is therefore important that we politically support the business potentials of PV technology. Then we in the Left believe that the strategy and planning in the field of photovoltaic technology should help to ensure that the funds made available by the public, whether for research, demonstration or dissemination, are used effectively and also coordinatedly. It is important that we think holistic about energy, because there are a large number of technologies and an infrastructure that must play together. It can, for example, be done. In this context, we welcome the motion for a resolution. But we hope that we can conclude the resolution with a report in which we can sort things out more. Just before we got an illustration and a question about why it doesn't pay for a municipality, and precisely energy taxes also play a role in how we organize it here. And we all know that a green tax reform is being negotiated in another room. In any case, it also plays a crucial role for us. Then we would like to discuss potentials, but also limitations in relation to the expansion of solar cells on buildings. There is also a need to take into account the assessment that, in the large cities, there is in fact a network that might be able to cope with the flow; there is an investment that needs to be considered; and then, above all, there is an aesthetic expression that also plays a role in how citizens look at it. So, overall, it is our wish that we can finish this work on this motion for a resolution by making a report in committee, where we might also include some of the other elements. It is the case that energy policy in Denmark is, unfortunately, currently being negotiated in many different spaces, and this makes it difficult for us to create coherence. There we would like to discuss how we can support the coherence of this motion for a resolution as well. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113605	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113608	Thank you for your reception and support, and I think that writing a report would be a good thing. Even if we have to say that we have tried this before, perhaps we can do something that adds some timetables to what will happen next. And I am really glad that the Left points out that aesthetics and strategy on a subject are something to be watched over and that it is not just the liberal market that has to solve all the problems. So I am looking forward to making a good report, which is what to say, ordering a good strategy, where we politically get the management, what we want to develop in the solar field.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113651	Now it's the case that sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen knows very well that the good business and the fact that the market is running things plays a role for the Left, and I also noted that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen said there should be a business in it for the municipalities. Therefore, it is the case that field plants, i.e. the large plants placed on the ground, are now economically beneficial to the Danes, because that is the way we provide the Danes with the cheapest possible energy. But that does not change the fact that, in a scenario where we look into the fact that we have to change the whole system, we also have to consider what it is for network investments that follow etc. So we are thinking that we are accepting the resolution and that we would like, I had just said, to embrace it in a report, and then, of course, we would like to influence the Minister and press the Minister all we can to make it happen quickly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113745	Thank you, Mr President, and there is another point I should like to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113748	In the Enhedslisten we put a lot of emphasis on the economy, which is why we have to come up with some framework conditions where we get used all of these flat roofs. Because we have enough flat roofs in Denmark for us to be able to tenfold our solar power production, and that is the most obvious thing, and we can do it in many places without grid reinforcement and without conflicting with the aesthetics. So I really think that there is an unexploited potential that we need to make use of, and there is also the speed to say in the situation we are in, working to achieve self-sufficiency in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113826	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113830	In the Left, we recognise that there is potential on the roofs. We also recognise that there are sometimes some challenges to placing energy installations on roofs. There's something about load capacity, etc. Having said that, however, we are happy to enter into an open discussion on this too. But the crucial thing for us is also that we work to ensure the Danes as cheap energy as possible. This is an essential prerequisite for the welfare society that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113855	Thank you. There are no more comments. And this is Mrs. Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504113903	Thank you for that and thank you to Enhedslisten for following up on the entire strategy on solar cells. We were in the SF in the report text that was made in the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee and actually still think that they • what can be said about the cut that is in relation to the photovoltaic planning there is reasonable. After all, it is a question of identifying some areas that are relevant to the field installations for solar installations, as is the case with regard to what kind of roofing facilities we need to be supported and how to ensure the best tools for this, and we need to have a look at the tariffs and the electricity grid. That is why I am also glad that my gut tells me that we are actually about to negotiate the whole regulation of solar cells with Denmark, and that is where we think it is quite obvious that a strategy for solar planning should be drawn up, and we would like to support the Enhedslisten's proposal here, but also knowing that we should negotiate it in a moment. And then I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support the proposals of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504114015	Thank you. There are no more brief comments here. So we move on to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504114044	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. The world must phase out fossil fuels as soon as possible if we are to hope to keep the temperature increases below 1.5 degrees or even 2 degrees. We have been talking about climate for a long time and set ambitious targets, but with Putin's invasion of Ukraine, Europe has awakened abruptly to its vulnerable dependence on Russian gas, both in terms of security policy and economics. At the same time, the green transition continues to be Denmark's strongest card in international economic competition, and that is what we have so much focus on here with both energy and supply issues and also the last now, as the minister said, with the plan Denmark can more II. However, if more renewable energy is not established, it will mean that by 2030 Denmark may have to import black power produced from coal, oil or gas, and it will not only be in direct conflict with our targets in the Climate Act, but also be a barrier to what else we can do here in Denmark with our huge renewable energy potential. For the expansion of renewable energy in Denmark • special wind • has been significantly slowed down in recent years. It undermines the climate change of society as a whole. At the same time, renewable energy is essential to guarantee independence from Russia and also to ensure more stable energy prices that are affordable both for businesses and consumers. Land-based wind and solar power are the cheapest forms of energy. Several solar power parks have been set up in recent years without State aid, and the expectation is that solar power can become the fastest growing energy source in Denmark in this decade, shows some studies. And according to the Danish Energy Agency, the expansion of solar power timeobles towards 2030 will amount to more than 20 per cent. of Denmark's electricity production. That's a big target. Some researchers say that we need to invest much more on roofing facilities and urban field facilities, while other calculations show that far from all solar cells produce a climate gain. So how do we ensure that the huge expansion is really good for the climate? How do we ensure that we get solar energy to those areas where it is most appropriate? There are also many citizens who now want to take care of their own energy consumption not only in view of the high energy prices, but also because they want to contribute to phasing out Russian gas. However, there are several administrative trip wires which make it difficult to invest in solar cells in private households, at least in order to make it a good business. I'm one of them. A knowledge of an issue relating to sections 37 and 38 of the Landing Act, which states that technical installations such as solar installations are covered by the building's mortgage note. On the basis of the above, it appears that this relationship prevents the possibility of separate pledges to roof-based PV installations. We now also have another challenge, and that is in relation to the network itself. The large amount of renewable energy from wind and sun requires grid expansion. It also requires that we resolve the challenge of a price model that is predictable. So in the Conservative People's Party, we have long been focusing on and calling for strategic energy planning for the green transition. We also tabled a motion for a resolution, B 39, on this: building the VE to achieve its objectives, to deal with rising energy prices and to ensure that it is not more expensive to be a Dane. Among other things: One could specifically map mature technologies and look at what market-driven solutions lie right in front of them and look across contexts. And then we can have priority action and resources in relation to objectives. You could also take a green check of the administration and see if there are administrative stumbling threads to ensure that the administration and the planning regime support what we want. You usually do that at any larger level. The green transition goes on four legs. It is business, technology, citizens and politicians. And that is why we cannot leave it as it is now completely random to municipalities or to those who now want to try to set up solar installations, or to private people, without setting proper framework conditions and also ensuring that it is not the citizens who will be left with the bill. So in many ways we support this intention, which Enhedslisten puts forward, that more strategic energy planning and thereby focus on the sun. However, we believe that solar energy should form part of an overall strategic plan, and that is what we really hope for soon to come to the negotiating table. And that's why we can't back B 160, as it is here. However, we would very much like to see solar cells included in overall strategic planning. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504114552	Thank you. There are no comments. Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504114609	Thank you. And thank you also for the motion for a resolution. We fully agree that we need a strategy and a plan for the expansion of solar cells. I could also hear that in relation to the author's question and the debate that was before with one of the former rapporteurs about this using our rooftops in the larger cities. We also have a lot of large shopping areas and places located outside the major cities where it could definitely make sense to use some of the land to set up solar cells. These are some places where people do not come into carambola with neighbors and get the challenges that we otherwise face when we set up large areas for solar cells. So a strategy and a plan for that we support 100%. And, as the Minister also said in his opening speech and reply to the proposal, we are sitting in that room and are in the process of finding out. And of course, the Danish People's Party would really like to be a part of that, because there is no doubt that solar cells together with wind turbines and other forms of green energy are what we need to work with. So we're counting on that case to be settled. We support the proposal and also hope that, when the government has said that they support the proposal, we will have a good plan, together and with a broad majority in the Folketing, for the benefit of investors, but also for the benefit of the citizens and for the benefit of the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504114740	Thank you. There are no comments. There are no more rapporteurs, so we come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504114758	Thank you for receiving this resolution to instruct the government by the end of the year to draw up a strategy and ambitious plan for developing solar cells in Denmark up to 2030. That is something that was formulated at the beginning of February, and it is something that was formulated before the war broke out in Ukraine. So the proposal has become even more topical in that the security policy dimension has been included and the desire for more self-sufficiency in renewable energy has been brought up on the agenda. This has thus increased the need for a strategy for PV expansion. When I have been following energy policy in this way over the last few years, I can see that there has been a huge focus on the new issues we can come up with, such as energy islands, and on what can be developed, but then there is some of the very near things that I do not think have been given the space it should have. We stand by solar cells, for example. can be set up on existing roofs without any major problems, without having to create a new local plan without having to make a major net reinforcement, but when we see that it doesn't happen, although there are energy scientists and professors who tell us that if we find out how to use the flat roofs, we don't really need the large field plants in terms of production, and when we look into the fact that we could tenfold the amount of electricity from solar cells, if we were to alienate it under the framework conditions, I think that this is a sign that a new strategy is needed. In the middle of the writing of this motion for a resolution, we found out that there is in fact a report from June last year, adopted by a large majority, to break down silo thinking in the field of PV expansion and to invite parties to further political discussions and the debate on a strategy for solar cells and planning the expansion of solar cells as part of energy planning. However, I do not think that we have had the targeted discussion on that report, but now we are trying again. And I hope then that we will achieve a report that will really give priority to the expansion of solar cells. I get a lot of requests that something is unreasonable. They're coming, among other things. from municipalities that would very much like to set up solar cells on their own buildings. I also sometimes get some examples of calculations, of which one has to say: it is a good thing that they go ahead with planning when there is the slender economy in it. I often meet housing associations that would like to set up more solar cells on their existing buildings, and I have a dialogue with some people who work for citizens' energy communities, on which we have also made some decisions, but where we probably need to see it fully achieved, so that some new initiatives can emerge, not of a huge nature but of a smaller nature, so that we can hopefully come up with support for the expansion of renewable energy. What is often the problem with these large solar field plants is that it is the individual landowner who has made an application and has planned it on the basis of where he can get the cheapest grid connection and where perhaps a transformation can be saved. So it has not done according to the wishes of the local community, where there should be no solar cells, because one would like to be able to take a walk and that sort of thing. I think I regularly encounter this kind of thing, and sometimes it splits the city council. Among other things, they could. experience on Samsø last year, where a landlord had a plan and would not share the project with the island's population. The city council was divided, and it ended up with a majority rejecting that project. In a similar way, we can find other projects around the country, which give many screenshots on the city council, and where sometimes you end up saying yes to something that you do not think is quite right, and sometimes you also say yes because you think you have a commitment to the expansion of renewable energy. If you are in a situation where you have said no to some wind turbines on land, is it not reasonable that you in the same municipality should be positive about setting up some solar cells? There is that recognition in some places, and I think that we should play along with the fact that we have municipalities that want to be involved in the conversion, that we have housing associations that want to play with, and we see new initiatives that are involved, but I think that there are framework conditions that are not good enough. I also believe that there are some options that have not been fully unfolded. I sometimes wonder about these boring parking spaces. Why not make more parking spaces with a solar cover? Then you can keep there in dry weather, and some electricity can be collected from some solar cells that make a fine sunscreen of a parking lot. Why don't we see more of that type of plant? We have big, boring and ugly parking lots all over the country. There is a potential that has not been exploited. The positive thing about solar cells is that, globally, we have more energy coming from the sun than we consume. It is a much greater energy flow that comes down to the globe, which we must learn to make the best use of. So to make a strategy for that I think is appropriate. I would like to thank the Minister for his support, thanks to the Social Democrats, the Left, the SF, the Radicals and the Danish People's Party. Conservatives would like it to be included in a larger plan, but I still regard it as a partially positive reception of Enhedslisten's proposal. So I look forward very much to having a report made, and I also look forward to some negotiations here before the summer, where we will have an agreement on how to develop renewable energy in Denmark, both with solar and wind energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504115409	Thank you. No one else wanted to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply, and if no one objects, it considers it adopted. It's agreed. The sitting will be suspended until 8 a.m. 1 p.m. where questions have been answered to the Ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504125959	The sitting is resumed. The next item is the reply to questions forwarded to the ministers and, as I see that we have many people here today, I would just like to give a small message of service. It happens that on Fridays many members of the Folketing write questions to their minister. The minister then has a few days to rehearse the answers, and that is what we need to do now. In practical terms, it works in such a way that ministers come to the ministerial chairs in turn, and here we have a small table from which the Members of Parliament ask their questions. At first they read the question they have sent, but then they are allowed three times to ask additional questions on the same subject. The Minister must then try to answer them. This is one of the more exciting days we have in the Folketing, so I also hope that you will enjoy listening to it. All in all, I think, we have 10 or 12 questions today. It'll take about an hour and a half. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130108	It is also a day that ministers look forward to. At least I know. The question is: does the Minister think that it is wise policy to compensate selected groups for inflation with unfunded cheques when this could further increase inflation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130123	Thank you for that, and yes, I have certainly been looking forward to being here today. That is what the Government has been very clear in its message: we will not be able to free the Danes from the economic spanking, which unfortunately has followed in the wake of Putin's invasion of Ukraine by 24 February. It affects all Danish society, it affects all Danes, and we do not have the opportunity to take that burden off the shoulders of people. At the same time, we say that some groups are being particularly hard hit. For example, it could be pensioners who receive the elderly cheque, i.e. pensioners who have the least, which is why the government has proposed that we give an extraordinary and tax-free elderly cheque of DKK 5 000. At the same time, we also say that this is not something we can do for all groups of Danish society, and we do not think it is necessary to do so either. What is the balance here is to do it in a way that does not unnecessarily blow to an inflation that is a challenge. And there we think we have found a sensible balance with the initiative of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130251	After all, the economic wise men disagree with that. If you pump money into the economy by handing out some checks, you have to find some savings somewhere else. I mean, you have to finance it, because otherwise it can increase inflation, and the government doesn't. On the whole, I am concerned that the government is pursuing a policy that will exacerbate inflation. That's right, and the minister suggests that you can't just solve inflation with a fingertips politically, but there are some things you can do. After all, public spending can be curbed and thus helped to dampen inflation. You can finance the measures you want if there are checks or tax cuts, or what do I know about the help you want to give the Danes. And you can make some reforms that increase labour supply so that the pressure on wages and inflation on the Danish labour market is less severe. At least three things could be done, but the government is doing exactly the opposite in all three areas: increasing public spending, pumping cheques into the economy without financing it, and there is no telling how we are really going to get to grips with and getting the labour supply lifted smoothly in Denmark and making more labour available. So I am genuinely concerned that the government's policy will help to increase inflation in Denmark precisely because it is not possible to do the things that you know very well will have an inflationary effect. So I am very concerned, and I would actually just like to call on the government to change its track and also to hear the Minister, if not the Minister for Finance is also concerned about the rise in inflation, given that the government is increasing public spending, does not finance its cheques and does not have any proposals for reforms that really increase the supply of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130424	This government is pursuing a deeply responsible economic policy. We have had a huge challenge during the covid-19, where, despite it, we find ourselves in a situation where we have the highest employment ever in Denmark, have very low unemployment and where a number of companies run very, very well, deliver very fine accounts. Now we have a situation where inflation is a clear challenge, and we need to deal with that wisely. That is why we do not see that this government simply has a plan to launch major tax cuts to the right and to the left, which some parties have, as the solution to everything. We say very clearly and, I think, openly and honestly to the Danes, that inflation is not solved by simply pumping out money. Inflation is something we are going to have to struggle with for a while, and that is why it is something that is going to affect the economy of all Danes. On the other hand, there are some who are particularly hard hit, and these are not the kind of people like you and me, but it could, for example. be pensioners who receive the elderly cheque, i.e. pensioners who have the least. And there we think it is sensible to go in and give them a one-off tax-free amount of DKK 5,000, and we do not think that will push the balance in relation to the total economy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130553	But it is not in itself that you want to give the pensioners a check of DKK 5 000, which is the problem. It is, of course, that it is unfinanced that you do not save on public spending elsewhere and that, it can be said, the inflation effect thus goes to zero. After all, you just increase public spending and pump money into the economy. And then the Minister for Finance says that it is about being balanced and that one should be a little irresponsible, because if one is not very irresponsible, it does not have such an effect. But what about all the demands from the government's support parties that students should also have a check? And before long you will also begin to say: what about the recipients of cash benefits, they should not also have a check, and what about those who have more than two children? In other words, the Minister is well aware of the way in which outbidding policy works. Does this mean that the government will stand firm and say: No, you can forget it; only pensioners will have to have this check, otherwise it will increase inflation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130636	This government will continue to pursue a very, very responsible economic policy, in which we also look at reforms and where we also create a greater supply of labour. We have already put things forward and received support for this, which goes beyond what that government, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh's party was a member of, did, because we must constantly look at how we strengthen Danish economy. I have said very openly, even when there are parties that want to give huge tax concessions. I understand that in the Liberal Alliance tax cuts will be made for 100 billion. kr. And, yes, sometimes you have to say no, and I do so, for example, as far as the far-reaching ideas put forward by the Liberal Alliance are concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130729	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130732	However, I do not make any suggestions to increase information. After all, it is the government's support parties who do what they say there must be more to be covered by the unfunded cheques, students and the like. And that is not the case with the Minister. The minister's just saying that if you start spreading it out, it's gonna be irresponsible. Then it is exciting whether the Minister ends up making an agreement which the Minister himself must think is irresponsible. It has to be said that if tax relief is financed by less public consumption, it is not something that increases inflation. So that would be a better way of helping citizens. So I would just like to hear: if inflation is running out of control, would the Minister of Finance be willing to say that we need to reduce public spending in order to curb inflation? Or can't it even be said that citizens will have to pay the price?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130811	I believe that what is the important challenge for all of us in the coming period is, fortunately, that we have a strong Danish economy, to carry out three main tasks. One is to take good care of our welfare society, the other is to take good care of our security • That's also why we raise our defence costs • and the third is to deal with the climate challenge we face. If we are to do this, we need to make reforms in the future, we need to give priority to the money, and we also need to be honest with the Danes and say that we will not be able to afford 100 billion. kr. in tax relief if, at the same time, we are to have a health service that works and if our children are to have a proper education and all the other things that are important. It is certainly important for me, as a Social Democrat, that we take care of Danish society. And I'm not going to make an agreement on compensation that I think is irresponsible. The government has put forward what we think is the right thing to do. We meet with the parties of the Folketing about this, and I hope that we can land something that is both purposeful and wise and, at the same time, helps some people who need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130918	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 2 on the agenda, which has also been tabled by Mr Seligman. Alex Vanopslagh. Indeed, each member of parliament has the right to put two questions to the same minister. Mr. Alex Vanopslagh used it, and so we go to the next question, which is with the same setup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130932	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the Indeed, each member of parliament has the right to put two questions to the same minister. Mr. Alex Vanopslagh used it. So we go to the next question, which is with the same setup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130933	The question is: What is the Minister's position with regard to chief wiseman Carl-Johan Dalgaard's criticism of the government's lack of funding for heat checks in relation to circumvention of the budget law and the risk of overinflating the fire in the Danish economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504130949	We'll keep going where we left off. And it is true that there has been a debate that the budget law allows expenditure directly related to the exceptional circumstances beyond the budget law deficit limit. It has to be said that so far this is a little theoretical discussion. With the heat check that has been agreed and the new measures that the government has played out with, we are still staying away within the ordinary deficit limit. And when it comes to defining what expenditure is directly related to exceptional circumstances, we follow the EU rules in this area. That's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131030	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131032	But the wise man's concern is that in general there is a tendency not to finance one's expenditure and thus also to help inflate too much into the fire and increase inflation in society. I just have to say that this is, in general, a characteristic of the government. During the corona crisis, we started a lot of debt and pumped money into society and had some unfunded measures. That's what it is. There may be good arguments for that. But they did. They also handed out a one-time check. Now there's the 18 billion. kr. I would like to add to the defence, where it is also said that we have to reduce the deficit, so we have to make bigger debts. Now there's this inflation check, let's call it that, for the elderly, and it might include even more groups. It's also unfunded. I was just thinking of a quote from the Prime Minister in the summer of 2020, where the Prime Minister very wisely said: "It has to be over that as a politician you can just stand up and be very costly without funding'. It's a quote from the PM. No more proposing new expenditure without having the funding in place. And the Prime Minister warned against such a speed blindness in fiscal policy. Nevertheless, the government continues to make proposals for new expenditure without funding. I have to understand. Is it the case that the Prime Minister was wrong, that is to say that we should simply stand up and demand new expenditure without funding, or does the Prime Minister still think the same thing, but is the Prime Minister perhaps in a minority in his government, and then it is some other ministers who are forcing the Prime Minister to drive new expenditure through without funding? Which one is it? Was the Prime Minister wrong, or does the Prime Minister just not have a majority in his government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131203	Fortunately, the Prime Minister was not wrong, and I do not think it is such a general impression that the Prime Minister is going to be taken care of by his government. And I can confirm that this does not apply to the things we are discussing here either. There is a government that looks at things exactly the same. It is that when we make financial laws and other agreements, we finance things there, and they have been. We have a strong Danish economy, but we are also in a situation after what we have seen with Putin's invasion of Ukraine, where there are exceptional circumstances and where you need to strengthen, among other things. Danish defence and security significantly. There you could of course choose the approach that I have to understand, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh wants us to cut down on our hospitals and our care for the elderly and our children, or you can say that in this case, because we have such a strong economy, we also have the air to finance it in other ways. So that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131311	It is the case that the Minister has two minutes to reply for the first time, and the questioner has two minutes to ask, and then it is half-minutes to drive. The President sometimes stands up to signal it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131326	But we are just taking the quote from the Prime Minister again: the end must be that as a politician you can just stand up and be very cost-effective without funding. That was the quote. Since then, a bill of 18 billion has been printed out. kr. to the Danish defence without finding funding. It is suggested that it should be financed in the eyes of the goose with a greater deficit on annual budgets, but at the same time the Minister of Finance says that the Prime Minister is right, that you have to have something that is not connected here. Can the Minister of Finance not be concerned that we will end up simply doing exactly what the Prime Minister warns against, namely constantly getting new expenditure without any funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131410	That is not the way we conduct policy in the government, because we have the clear starting point that when we make agreements, they must of course also be financed. Then, in this exceptional situation that is around Ukraine, we need to significantly increase the Danish defence budget, and there we have chosen to say that the way we fund it specifically is through loan financing. It would then have been possible to say that we are going to raise taxes a great deal, but I would not believe that, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh seems to be a good idea, but if he does, I think we'll have a yellow beam here in a moment, i.e. if it's the policy of the Liberal Alliance. Of course, we could also choose to cut deep into our welfare societies, but as a social democrat I do not think that is a good idea. It can then be said that, while we have a strong and responsible Danish economy, it gives us some degrees of freedom to do so in a financially responsible way when we raise our defence budget over a number of years, and that is what we are doing. Well, I haven't heard Mr. Simpson either. Alex Vanopslagh is opposed to strengthening our defences, but I think I miss hearing how Mr. Alex Vanopslagh himself will pay for it, when at the same time he will cut deep into our welfare societies to give tax relief to those who earn the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131535	Everyone is free to enter our website. Last weekend we had a national meeting of the Liberal Alliance, and I presented our 2035 plan, where we crown by crown what the Prime Minister has previously called for, namely that when new expenditure is made, we should give funding. We finance the promise of the Danish defence, we finance some tax cuts, and yes, we say that, in addition to money for the increasing number of older people, there must be zero growth in the public sector, and there must be a productivity improvement of 10%, less bureaucracy, more exposure to competition, better management and organisation. Even a Social Democrat should want that as well. So I'm not trying to hide my policy, I'm just trying to find out if the government means what it says, that you shouldn't be spending without funding, or was it just something that sounded good there in the summer of 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131615	Yes, we are pursuing a sound and responsible economic policy, but I am glad that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh today says that he will both cut the Danish welfare society to fund 100 billion. kr., which can go to e.g. top tax relief, and cut in the Danish welfare society, on our elderly, on our children, on our health care to be able to pay to strengthen the defense. It has to be said that there are two different approaches to Danish policy: there is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, who will cut down on welfare, and if he gets a majority in favour of it after a parliamentary election, it will be the policy that will be in this country; then there will certainly be the current government that will constantly look at how we can make things smarter, better, more efficient, but which will also ensure that we take good care of a welfare society, and when there are more children and older people, we will also ensure that money goes with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131714	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh for today's questions, and thank the Minister for Finance for the answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 3 and this is for the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, and the questioner is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. It says (UFG) afterwards, and that means outside the groups, and that is when you are not a member of any party but have the same rights as others. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131735	Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131737	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of cases of humiliating and degrading treatment of citizens who are employed to care for and care for them, and will the Minister ensure that employees in the care and care sector who are convicted of failure, violence, enrichment crimes or humiliating and degrading treatment of them do not get employment in the care and care sector later, and, if so, how and when will the Minister ensure this? Reference is made to the article "Made raw eggs in diapers and cheated with chili sweets" in the Ekstra Bladet on 29 April 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504131813	Thank you to Mrs Adsbøl for her question. It is deeply shocking and I think we all have it that people who are employed to provide support and care for some of our most vulnerable citizens on accommodation offers may think of even thinking of treating them degradingly and humiliatingly. This is totally unacceptable and such behaviour has nothing to do with social services. We have several safeguards in our legislation and in our system at all to prevent employees from being recruited who have shown behaviour that is not compatible with caring for other people, including the very vulnerable people. Firstly, local management has a central responsibility for hiring new employees. The management has the opportunity to make sure that they do not employ unfit staff, for example. by obtaining recommendations and opinions from the former workplace of the person concerned. Furthermore, we have together tightened the regulation in this area in connection with the permanentisation of the Agreement on the Rate Pool for 2019, and since 1 July 2020 it has been a legal requirement that each social offer obtains a criminal record prior to the recruitment of both new staff and temporary staff. The Social Inspectorate must also follow up on whether the offer obtains the criminal records as they should. In addition to this, in their continuous operational supervision of the quality of social services, the Social Inspectorate must, inter alia: decide whether the individual offer supports the physical and mental health and well-being of citizens. The supervision here can both obtain information from staff and residents on the offer, and finally, the municipalities also have the personal supervision and the duty vis-à-vis their citizens. This is an absolutely terrible matter to which the honourable Member refers, and I think that is all I can say in this Chamber, and I believe that everyone in this House will have it, rather than rejecting the fact that employees employed to care for vulnerable people may be inclined to betray confidence, as has happened here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132009	I am aware of the agreement to which the Minister refers precisely because I myself have been fighting for this area for a very long time, precisely because it is not compulsory to obtain public criminal records. That is where we have made it compulsory to obtain criminal records in accommodation offers, but it must of course be extended. But when you hear about this case, you can actually see that educators have not been convicted of psychological violence, but have been convicted of maladministration and have not been deprived of the right to work as educators. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister really thinks it is okay that these educators can now continue to work as educators and expose citizens to these actions, as they have done. I cannot know whether this matter has been appealed, but I have to say to the Minister that this is a clear indication that the legislation is not good enough. So I would like to know whether the Minister will make it easier to take away the right to work, for example. as a teacher in the case of serious cases, as in this case. But these can simply continue to work within the profession. We also have the challenge in the area of care and care in relation to the stumbled vessels, which unfortunately are, and which continue to work, and even though there has been a loss of duty, they actually continue to work elsewhere. I have had the Minister at Question Time before, and there was this about a young girl who had been subjected to violence, and there are several times, as can be seen in the newspapers, where our citizens are not being properly treated by the caregivers who are employed to care for them. So what will the Minister do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132154	Thank you. In fact, I think the questioner knows in advance that we cannot stand in the Chamber and deal with a specific matter. I do not have the verdict myself, I only have the press statement, and I almost hear from the questioner that the questioner does not have the specific judgment, nor has he been present during the sentence, and that is why we cannot go in and deal with a specific case with some specific residents. There's a judge who's heard the prosecution. It is true that the prosecution went for both psychological violence and negligence and also for the denial of the right to work with the target group, and then you have to lift a burden of proof, and here the sentence has come out, so that no judgment has been passed on psychic violence or disqualification, and there we just have to say that none of us have any further insights into it. I certainly do not have the verdict, which is why I cannot stand here and comment on it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132244	Well, Minister, this isn't about individual cases. I have raised cases with the Minister on several occasions. One is that it puts the skilled employees in a really bad light when there are staff who can't figure out how to show empathy and care. Another thing is that the Minister is not acting in this area. There is a need for action. Otherwise, we can see that the stinging vessels can continue in this class. So how will the Minister ensure that an educator cannot treat a citizen as humiliating and degrading as in this case and that he or she is still free to work with vulnerable citizens in the future? One way or another, it is possible to ensure that the most recent workplace is contacted, for example. as a reference, or that it is registered somewhere, if someone treats a citizen so degrading that a case has been brought before the courts?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132334	But the reality is that this is a matter of individual cases, because when we stand in this Chamber, and it is surely more than a year since we last stood here, it is when there has been a single case. In the meantime, the questioner knows very well that there has been quite a lot of work going on about this very thing with storned vessels to see if there was a very easy solution: a register system, something else, where the conclusion in relation to being able to create some very comprehensive centralized systems in order to hit the fortunately few individual cases that are here was that there were no bids that were right on the surface. The closest we came to was a Dutch scheme which has been opened and closed again because it simply did not work. That's why we can't avoid this being the responsibility of the local leader. And yes, if you are faced with someone who would like to be employed by someone who says that you must not obtain reference from my former employer, then it is true that you cannot then force yourself to refer to those references, but then perhaps I would turn around a second time by hiring someone who says: 'You must not contact my former employer.' So the opportunity for local leaders, and who they hire to take care of vulnerable citizens, is a responsibility they must be able to shoulder.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132435	After all, that working party made it very clear to us that it was a very good idea to obtain public criminal records in the whole area. That is another aspect of the matter. But the Minister keeps talking about individual cases. I have now presented a great many cases to the Minister in relation to this. In the field of social and health care, we have the fact that social and health assistants are authorised and, if you mistreat a patient or anything else, you can have your authorisation withdrawn. What is the Minister going to do, for example? educators who neglect or expose a citizen to that treatment? You want to think in the license trail? Or is the Minister's answer here today that nothing is going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132519	Thank you. The answer is that something has to happen every day. When hiring employees in this area, local management must be aware of its responsibility. After all, the Social Inspectorate is also monitoring compliance with the statutory requirement to obtain criminal records. And I would say that we were here at the end of 2021 with one single case; now we are here with a single case again, and every single case is a single matter too much. But it is a mistake we often make here at Christiansborg: that when there is a mistake or a single matter locally, we make legislation, regulation, bureaucracy that we push down all over the area, and we must not do that. We have to do things when they can make sense and be targeted, as when we agreed on the criminal record, but we have to insist that when you make an offer, and so also when you have the duty to supervise a citizen, you have to lift that responsibility. After all, we cannot manage the social area in here from Christiansborg in detail.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132614	Thank you to Mrs Adsbøl for today's question, and thank you to the Minister for the answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 4 and that is for the Minister of Transport, and the questioner is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132630	Thank you so much. The question is: what is the Minister's view that ambulance drivers and other emergency workers can today be punished in the same way as private drivers, including the driving licence being denied and thus losing the right to drive as a result of road accidents due to emergency, as most recently happened in Randers for the ambulance driver Bruno Dante Martiri?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132654	Thank you for the question. I understand that the question arises from a specific case in which the ambulance driver was charged with breaching the rules of the Road Traffic Code and the alert notice. I cannot go into the specific case, but I understand that the ambulance driver has subsequently been acquitted in the case. In reply to the question, I would first of all like to acknowledge and thank you for the work of our police and preparedness on a daily basis. This means, among other things, that, in times of crisis, emergency driving is necessary. Drivers of emergency vehicles shall not be penalised in the same way as private drivers as long as the conditions for emergency driving are met. In other words, it does not in itself give rise to criminal liability if a driver of an emergency vehicle is involved in a road accident. The rules are designed in such a way that the driver of an emergency vehicle has to make sure that the emergency driving is legitimate, i.e. that emergency vehicles must be used. Of course, the driver must make sure that the detailed rules for the reaction itself are observed while driving, and this is done, among other things. on the use of emergency signals, rules for driving in red light signals and the circumstances in which speed rules may be infringed. However, it is a misunderstanding that it is in itself a criminal offence for a driver of an emergency vehicle to be involved in a road accident in connection with the emergency driving. Drivers of emergency vehicles may be penalised if the basic conditions for driving emergency services are not met or if the arrangements for driving emergency services are not complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504132845	Thank you, Minister. The specific case has revealed to me that this is probably a bigger one, we should say the problem for a large number of ambulance drivers. I fully agree with the Minister that these ambulance drivers must have as good conditions as possible, because it may be that we ourselves will need it someday. They are helping to save lives, and instead of thinking about whether they are now risking the driver's license and hence the job when they are out doing this emergency driving, I think they should give priority to spending their time saving lives. In relation to the specific case, we are not talking about an ambulance driver who has just a few months behind him or something else. He has 35 years of experience and 35 years of experience. And I myself have had the opportunity to meet him and meet several of the representatives of the ambulance drivers, and they say clearly to me that this is something that places them at a disadvantage in the exercise of their duties. I mean, it's just something they're worried about every time they're out there doing emergency driving. We also experienced a few years ago that there was a firefighter who actually got a fine and a cut in the driver's license compared to doing this emergency driving. That is why I think and yes, it is a Leftman who says that now we should listen to the FOA, because the FOA has actually come up with a concrete proposal that I think sounds really, really exciting. And that is that, instead of our emergency workers, who are out trying to save lives, so to speak, must also have all sorts of problems if they get involved in accidents, then let us have a milder paragraph in relation to emergency driving. Because, of course, it should not be the case that you just have to be able to drive with your head under your arm or something else, but it is always the case that when you do an emergency driving there can be situations, there may be people on the opposite side, so to speak, driving their head under your arm and not seeing that there is light or hearing that there are sirens and all kinds of other things, and thus these mishaps come. Then the Minister is ready, for example. to look at the proposal that lies from the FOA?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133045	I am always happy to look at good proposals, and it may well be that there are better proposals than those made in relation to existing legislation. I'm always open to that. I just think it is important to say in relation to the specific case that what I am told is that the ambulance driver has been acquitted in the case and that the rules have been set up today so that the driver of the emergency vehicle has to make sure that the emergency driving is done properly, that is to say, that emergency driving is necessary, and it is also the driver who is responsible for ensuring that the emergency rules are observed during the driving. However, there is not in itself a • and that is what I have understood as a premise for the question here • a criminal liability associated with the fact that an emergency vehicle is involved in an accident. There you will always go in and see: Was it the driver who was to blame for this accident? Were there any of the conditions applicable to emergency services that were not present? And if that is the case, there may be criminal liability. But if it is the case that all the frameworks and rules are met, then there can be no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133203	But the problem was that this case was raised at all. In other words, the situation is that as far back as November 2021, when this unfortunate accident occurred while driving for emergency services, the prosecution seems, in view of the way in which the law is today, that there was a basis for raising a case for a fine of DKK 2,500. as well as three years of conditional withdrawal of the licence. And then it is true that our legal system has fortunately acquitted him, but my point is that we shouldn't have raised this case at all. And, of course, it was raised because the prosecution apparently believes that he should have been convicted in relation to the way the legislation is and so there must be grounds for looking at the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133244	In principle, I never reject good proposals; I do not think we should do that as politicians; we should always listen to the proposals that can improve our legislation. But it could also be that it was the interpretation of the legislation that had to be looked at. After all, the question remains as to what the consequences are on the day when there is an accident caused by improper driving? That is why we must also be careful that we do not come up with legislation that will turn the other way. I would very much like to take part in looking at whether there is anything we can do in relation to the interpretation, and I would also not wish to reject the fact that there may be adjustments, but there are just different balances that need to be maintained here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133326	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133328	But I actually agree with that, so if this could be resolved, so to speak, by means of an interpretation or an announcement, what do I know, which would not require new legislation, then it is absolutely best, because then we will achieve the objective of this, namely that there is no such insecurity, and then perhaps there will not be that interpretation in the various police circles which might not be different. So I guess I'm gonna take the outstretched hand and I'm gonna look forward to finding a solution, hopefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133356	In any case, there is no one, I hope, who has the basis for thinking that our preparedness and police should have the worst possible working conditions. They must have security in their work, and it is precisely they who are professionals who can best assess the conditions they are driving during an emergency. So I think it makes sense that we are looking at whether there are adjustments that need to be made and, as I said, I am open to all good proposals, but it might be that the solution lies in the interpretation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133427	Thank you to the questioner and to the Minister for Questions and Answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5, which is in the same position, that is Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left, who asks, and the Minister for Transport, who answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133443	I am completely surprised and sorry that it is not Denmark's liberal party anymore, but only the Left. But thank you for that. The question is: does the Minister believe that there is a need to review traffic legislation so that, in the future, it will, unlike today, in the case of cases such as the case of ambulance driver Bruno Dante Martiri, be taken as an attenuating circumstance if an accident has occurred in connection with an emergency?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133507	Thank you for the question. Following on from my previous reply, I would like to emphasise once again that there may be special situations that justify driving on emergency services. It may even be quite a number of situations that justify emergency driving, namely when an accident has occurred. However, it does not in itself give rise to criminal liability if the driver of an emergency vehicle is involved in a road accident, and I think that is just quite important to emphasise so that there is no such understanding that there is a general penalty associated with an accident. If the driver of an emergency vehicle is subject to criminal liability under the rules of the Road Traffic Code, that means that today it has been estimated that the conditions for the emergency driving have not been met, in other words that the emergency driving has been improper. And I believe that there must be a system of sanctions if you are driving irregularly, but I would like to look at whether there is anything we can do to ensure a greater level of security in the job leading to emergency vehicles.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133615	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133616	Thank you. I meant absolutely what I said in the last round, namely that I welcome what I see as an outstretched hand on the part of the Minister, in that we should try to look at how to solve this insecurity, which is among a large number of ambulance drivers. And it is important to bear in mind that you have actually been in the past looking at similar issues, because it was the case with automatic traffic control, i.e. these mobile starling boxes and the fixed starling boxes, that it also often caused a lot of problems. Because during the emergency driving they were, as it were, blitzed, and there you went in and looked at what you could do here, and there it was that the case workers are now actually sitting manually, I assume, and then you say: OK, here is an emergency driving so that it is sorted out. You find a solution to a problem, and that means that those who drive an emergency vehicle will not get these many, many fines. That's the same thing we're looking for here. So I mean it quite sincerely: I will take your hand well and then let us enter into a dialogue. I know that the FOA, which I am sure the Minister has a very close connection with in everyday life, is also very, very passionate about it. So the most important thing in the future is that both ambulance drivers, but indeed all the others, both firemen and the like, who drive an emergency vehicle, can do so in a safe environment so that they do not have to worry about having this hanging over their heads. So thank you so much for your hand out there. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133744	I believe that this is an expression of good cooperation. It is very good to raise issues also against the background of events in reality. That is what makes our people's government so good and so strong that we listen to the issues that are out there in the real world, and that we also keep our balances in here, because there is of course, as you see in American films, you should not drive to the sandwich bar with full advance and risk accidents there. You don't have to do that in these situations. And I certainly don't suspect anyone's going after lunch with a full response. But it is clear that it is within the balance sheet that we have to find solutions to this. On the other hand, there is no one who is interested in the fact that our skilled police and preparedness are insecure at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133834	The questioner? Michael Aastrup Jensen I have no more). It's fine. Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, but I have to shorten my speaking time as you exceed it both by the Minister and by some questioners. Well, also thanks to the Minister of Transport for the answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Six, and that's for the Attorney General. It is our very new Minister for Justice who has to answer some questions to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133908	Thank you for that, and above all congratulations on the new post. What is the Minister's view that ordinary citizens are being charged by the police and with the possibility of prosecuting the prosecution for having fed a horse with a piece of apple in the Mols Laboratory, and is it really not to shoot grey sparrows with guns?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504133929	Thank you for the floor to the President. Thank you for your congratulations and thank you for your question. For reasons of principle, I cannot really comment on specific cases which are being dealt with by the police, the prosecution or the courts. That is why I am not going to comment today on the specific case, nor am I going to say whether the premise for the issue, that is, about the feeding of the apple, is correct. However, I would like to say something more general about the vision of the police, which has been laid down with the multi-year agreement for the police for 2021-2020, and also a little about the priorities that are being made every day in individual police circles. That is actually what the question is all about. Our police must, of course, be equipped to combat complex and subversive crime, but the police must also be equipped and, above all, have the resources to deal with less serious and bourgeois criminal matters; in other words, the police must spend their resources on both the near and the difficult. Every day, the police make these important priorities between different types of cases and different tasks, and it is clear that these priorities must be based on reasonable and reasonable parameters based on police professional judgement based on the knowledge and experience of individual police circles. I am very confident that the police are able to carry out those priorities in a sensible way, and I also believe that, as a minister, I should give the individual police circles the freedom and the room to act on those priorities. So, in general terms and without addressing the specific issue, I do not think it is to shoot grey sparrows with guns when the police react, even if it is a smaller and a slightly more citizen-centred matter, on the contrary, it can help to ensure broad confidence and broad support for the police. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134112	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134114	Then I just need to understand the Justice Department's answer. Well, the Minister of Justice thinks it's appropriate for police to report someone on the basis of feeding an apple. Apples are part of many animal feed products for horses and must be expected to feed properly for horses nutritionally. So if the Minister does not want to take a stand on this matter, then I have to ask the general question: does the Minister not think that there is a small limit in relation to the fact that a citizen who gives an apple to a horse for whom the citizen is worried?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134153	As I was also just told at the beginning of my first speech, I do not want to comment on the premise of the question, namely that it is about an apple. This is a case that is now running in the courts. If the judge thinks that something criminal has been committed, there will be a conviction, and there I have both confidence that the police have the proportions in their work and that the courts are able to assess whether what was going on was illegal. And then it will probably also come out what the specific case has also been a little wider about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134232	How many reports have been made by the Mols Laboratory on the part of concerned citizens about the neglect of animals, including the starvation of animals, and that animals have lice, and that their hooves are not being treated? Maybe the Justice Minister will answer this is Question Time, because that's factual.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134301	I do not know the actual figure, but I would, of course, like to answer it if there is a question. But what I know is that there is a disagreement about whether what is going on at Mols is sensible or not, and that Aarhus University conducts research at Mols, and that some citizens disagree with it. But it doesn't mean you can break the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134325	What we need to do now is a very special discipline, namely that you can have fellow-questioners, and that means that you can ask more questions to the same minister on the same matter. And the co-questioner is today, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, also outside the groups. Here you go, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134341	Thank you. I hope that the Minister for Justice will remain in his place a little longer. Mrs Adsbøl will also come on later. It's just that the minister has been warned. I also think this is an extremely absurd matter. And now I know that when you are a new minister, you should not spend all the time on small matters, and I recognise that this may be a small matter, but it is, after all, a matter which deals with the legal situation we have in Denmark and how you as a citizen can be caught in some absurd situation where you end up being charged by the police. In this particular case, we can see that the police are referring to the fact that it is a research project that can stall because researchers have made agreements to take stool samples of the horses in question daily. And then you can laugh or not, but does the Minister think that this is a valid and plausible reason for dragging ordinary Danish citizens to court that they have come to give some of an apple to a sweet, little one?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134459	I would like to start by saying that I do not think it should be laughed at. I think it is a completely relevant political discussion of what we want with nature parks, what we want with research projects in Danish nature. I think this is a completely legitimate and good political discussion that we can have with each other and that citizens can have with each other. But it has to be the case that people also comply with the legislation that has now been adopted in relation to their political views. And that also means that if there is something that you are told is forbidden, you should not, of course, break the law. And then we have to trust that the police are able to have the proportions in place in the work they are doing. Nor is it always the case that a single newspaper article tells the whole story. Fortunately, there we have the courts to judge whether the law has been infringed and whether there should be a judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134550	The second question by the co-author.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134553	Thank you for your answer. But it does not change very much that I think that as a politician and as a decision-maker in the country we should also consider whether the end justifies the means in such matters as this one. In the past, the Minister for the Environment has been called in consultation on other animals, and it was about cattle that do not get the feed they need, and there they now choose to introduce drone monitoring and traceable earmarking and everything else. So there is a little hysteria in it, if I may say so, because you cannot have anything as simple as ensuring that the animals receive sufficient nutrition. There it ends up with some citizens choosing to feed these animals, and then it is the citizens who are being dragged before the courts, and I think that the Minister of Justice should take note of that. You turn it into a research project that an apple is eaten by a horse, and then it comes out like a pear at the other end of the line, yes, it's funny, but it's not something you have to do much research into, that it's actually been the case for quite many years that horses eat apples.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134657	Now this has worked on Mols since 2016, i.e. for 6 years, so it's probably about a little more than whether horses like apples. And when you have a natural history museum that cares about this and does research, it's probably also the basis for a little more going on than just whether horses like apples. And there I would just like to appeal to the fact that, although we can have a discussion with each other about whether the animals are fed properly, fortunately we have authorities in Denmark that are able to monitor these things and make decisions about them. And there is nothing in this case, at least not so far, where there are some authorities saying that something wrong has been done about this research project. Of course, if there is, it is also being persecuted. I think we just have to stick to the fact that people cannot just break the rules because they disagree with the fact that some authorities are doing something. Then we must have a political discussion with each other in here and adopt new legislation. But as long as that legislation is as it is, it is now up to the police to prosecute if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134801	Thank you. Then we go back to the main questioner, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134807	Thank you. Then you might ask: does the Minister think that the legislation needs to be changed? That is one question. Then, in relation to the apple, the minister says that there must of course be a response and that the police act correctly. But does the Minister not think that it is reasonable for a citizen to see an animal suffering from distress and not to have the nutrition it should be given that one thinks that one wants to help? Is it not customary to do so by having empathy for and caring for animals, just as it should be done for humans?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134855	I believe that every healthy person is also able to understand how animals feel. Whether these animals are in need or not, I'm not an expert on that, but fortunately, we have authorities that are able to decide. And as far as I am aware, none of the authorities believe that these horses are in need or that they are undernourished. We can have a political discussion on how to live in the Danish nature, and that must then be discussed with the Minister for the Environment. But as long as the law is as it is, the police will have to enforce it. I don't think that can really be any different.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134930	Thank you to Mrs Adsbøl for her question, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for the answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 7 on the agenda, and that is for the Minister for Employment, and the questioner is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten-De Rød-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134950	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504134952	Thank you. Well, actually, I would just like to hear calmly what the Minister for Employment or the government is going to do about the problem we have in Denmark with discrimination in the labour market, where especially women wearing a scarf must send more applications than everyone else. We think this in the Enhedslisten is a problem, and we would like to know if the government thinks it is a problem and what the government is going to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135020	It would be very far removed from me to rebuke colleagues in the Folketing, but one should only read up one's written question in the first round. Then you have to ask exactly the questions you want to ask afterwards. But let's hear what the minister says about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135033	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that an employer is not allowed to discriminate against employees or candidates for vacant posts because of ethnicity. It shall be prohibited by the law on discrimination. It is the employer's duty and responsibility to comply with the legislation, and not only that it is illegal, but it is also foolish for companies to opt out of job applicants because of ethnicity. Businesses are therefore also at risk of missing out on very valuable competences. That said, I have noted that the issue refers to a news item that was published on the Human Rights Institute's website in March 2020 and which is based on a research project completed in 2019. So this is not a new investigation. I do not wish to question the results of the study, but in recent years we have, fortunately, seen a very positive development, in which women with a minority background take more training and who also get into jobs to a much greater extent than in the past. And I welcome the fact that the recent figures on the employment of non-western immigrants and descendants show that non-western immigrants and descendants have increasingly been employed in recent years. I think that is very positive. I hope and believe that we are seeing a development here where we are making experience which means that employers are more aware that job seekers of other ethnic origin are a valuable and important resource, so that in the longer term we will also see a positive effect of that experience. I would like to assure Mrs Lund that, in my ongoing dialogue with the social partners, I will address this issue so that we are sure that employers are aware of their responsibilities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135213	You're welcome. One more question is available.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135217	Thank you. And then I apologise to the President-in-Office for my free interpretation of the question I have asked myself. I'll stick to the rules next time. Thank you to the Minister for Employment for your answer. It is true that the study is two years old and, fortunately, things are moving in the right direction. We have also noted in the Enhedslisten the positive news that came from the Ministry of Employment today that more immigrants are going to work. It just doesn't change the fact that we are still in a situation where particularly women with scarf experience discrimination. Therefore, I just want to hear what the government is going to do, because we have seen in other areas that some other initiatives have been taken, for example. to stop age discrimination in the labour market. We think that's really good. But what about the other discrimination that is taking place? Could you imagine being inspired by some of the measures you have taken in relation to age discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135312	Just to say it again: I believe in this way that I actually agree with the questioner a long way along the way, because I do not think it is okay if companies simply opt out of candidates because of the ethnicity of the applicants, and that is also contrary to the law on discrimination. It is, of course, part of the employer's management right to employ the employee whom the employer considers to be best suited for the job, but this must, of course, be done within the framework laid down by the legislation. Within the regulatory framework, an employer may require that, for example, an employee: does not wear headgear during the performance of its work, if that is objectively justified. But basically, I do not think it makes any sense at this time when companies are screaming for labour, or that they are opting out of applicants simply because of their ethnicity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135406	Well, in Enhedslisten we share exactly the same view as the minister, that of course the employer has a management right that is our system. And we can also read what the law says. It just doesn't change the fact that this discrimination is happening, and that's what we want to avoid. That's why we're concerned that the government is also trying to look at what it can do to stop this happening. Even if there is something else in the law, we can see that that is what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135436	I believe that one of the best ways of doing this is, of course, to have a dialogue with, but also to oblige employers as much as possible to take responsibility for the obligations that are, in fact, already incumbent upon them within the regulatory framework that is in which we must not discriminate. After all, this is an ongoing dialogue between the government and employers, because employers are also complaining at the same time that there is a shortage of labour. Fortunately, however, we can also see that the increase in employee employment among Danes with other ethnic backgrounds is increasing and in some cases also very rapidly increasing in recent years, which is very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135524	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135527	I thought I'd used my last question. Well, it's a good thing we share those intentions, but what are we gonna do in concrete terms? And there I am assuming that the government and the government are also talking about the plan of action against racism, which has been launched together with the rest of the parliamentary basis of the Finance Law parties over there in the Ministry of Justice. I agree that it is anchored in the Ministry of Justice, but can you not see from the Ministry of Employment that it might be a good idea in this action plan against racism to ensure initiatives that do not discriminate on the labour market on the basis of your skin colour or religion?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135606	In general terms, I believe and am convinced that the initiatives resulting from that action plan will also have repercussions everywhere else. I just think it is important to get it cut out so that everyone can understand that it is contrary to the law on discrimination if it is the case that applicants alone are rejected because of their ethnicity. In addition, the employer is actually entitled to say within the framework of the legislation that, when it is objectively justified, we cannot use an employee who may wear a head covering. And I think that is actually right for an employer to have the right to opt out of an applicant, but as I have said, this must therefore be objectively justified in relation to the performance of the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135648	Thank you to Mrs Lund for today's question, and thank you to the Minister for Employment for the first round of answers. We move on to paragraph 8. It is also a question for the Minister for Employment, and it is asked by Mrs Jette Gottlieb of the Enhedslisten • De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135705	Thank you. I have put this question to the Minister: will the Minister state his arguments for changing the status of conscripts from ordinary employees to graduates? I note that I have seen that the Minister has chosen to withdraw conscripts from the law after I have asked the question, which I am very pleased about. However, some quite parallel issues also apply to young people under 25, and I would now like to ask the Minister whether, on the basis of the same logic, the Minister is also considering withdrawing them from the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135730	Thank you for the question. I understand the question as well, as the questioner also explains, that reference is made to the implementation of the new unemployment benefit rules for graduates, which have been agreed with agreement on a new reform package for the Danish economy. The draft law was, as the questioner himself refers to, in external consultation during the period from 7 March to 18 March 2022, and the version of the draft law provided for military service to be included in the reduction of the graduation rate for non-parents after 3 months and the shortening of the ordinary period of unemployment for graduates. This is because the rules governing the rate of unemployment benefit for conscripts have traditionally been linked to the rules governing graduating. In the case of conscripts, there is a special rule that, once they have earned their entitlement to unemployment benefit, they may receive an allowance at a rate equal to the rate of graduating, alternatively they may have an allowance rate calculated in accordance with the general rules if it gives a higher rate. Following the external consultation, the Government has amended the draft law to maintain the current special conditions for conscripts and this means that conscriptions are not affected by the changes to the graduation rate for non-parents and the shortening of the ordinary benefit period for graduates. This is clear, as the honourable Member rightly refers to, also from the draft law which was first discussed yesterday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135847	I am asking, of course, because, following the draft law, young people under 25 who have entered the benefit system as employees are dramatically reduced if, after six months of unemployment, they take part in offers of more than four weeks' duration. Then I would like to ask the Minister whether it is reasonable that they should suddenly be regarded as graduates in the same way as was originally planned with the conscripts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504135913	In general terms, and this was also part of the discussion we had yesterday, I would like to say that what has been the government's main objective with the changes in the area of unemployment benefits has been to create a better balance and greater fairness across generations and work identity with the eyes of the government and at least with the eyes of the parties to the agreement. And there we have given weight to changing the graduation rules in such a way that it gives some money so that, on the other hand, we can make the largest and most significant increase in the safety net for employees, which also helps to strengthen 1.5 million Danish employees' benefit coverage in the event of unemployment. After all, this space has some difficult, dilemma-filled choices, but at least we are in favour of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140004	In practice, however, the Minister considers that a reduction of the rate to 49,11 per cent. Is a good incentive for young people to seek opportunities for increased skills that will probably and hopefully bring them closer to the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140020	We basically have the hope that whatever age you are, and this applies to both young people under 25 years of age and older people, you will take advantage of the skills that are available if it can bring you closer to the labour market. At the same time, we also have the hope that if it is that you do not want to make use of those offers, it will make it quicker and more targeted to seek one of the many vacancies that we can see from the recruitment survey and everything else good that is out there right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140051	Well, I understand that it is the incentive that must be decisive, and in this case it means that it is thought that the incentive to seek increased qualification is to halve the daily allowance rate. That's what I don't understand, because normally the government says the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140111	Basically, we've done an exercise here, changing the graduation rules. It then provides an opportunity, with the economy, to invest in the benefit coverage and the safety net broadly. We believe this, and I feel quite convinced of it in the long run, will help to increase the connection to and the robustness of the benefit system. Then Mrs Jette Gottlieb certainly has many different points in relation to some of the choices that have been made, and we would, of course, like to discuss this further over the second reading of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140147	Thanks for the questions and answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9, which is also addressed to the Minister for Employment and which is also put forward by Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten, De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140158	Yes, and here I ask the Minister: will the Minister state his thoughts on introducing a new principle of change in rates in the middle of a month in connection with a future draft law on changes to the rate of unemployment benefit? Is it a general wish that the exchange rate changer in the benefit system should take place per year? day instead of day per day. month?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140216	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140220	Thank you for the question. It is clear from the agreement on a reform package for the Danish economy that after the first 3 months of daily allowance, the graduation rate should be reduced to DKK 9.514. per month for persons under the age of 30 and up to DKK 12,018. per month for persons over 30 years of age. Today, when you change the daily allowance rate, it happens from the first month of the following month. For example, if a graduating is to be transferred to a parent's rate, it is from the first of the month after the child is born. If you had to use the same model at the rate drop for graduates in the new rules, it would mean that some graduates could get the initial higher graduating rate for up to 4 months. This means that it will be possible to receive the initial higher graduation rate for up to one third longer than the agreed three months. Others will only receive the initial high graduation rate for 3 months. In general, the period with the initial higher graduation rate will be between 3 and 4 months, depending on how consumption is relative to calendar months. So there are no factual reasons to decide whether you can get 3 or up to 4 months with the higher graduation rate, and I think that 4 months with the initially higher graduation rate is too far from the agreed 3 months. We therefore agree in the contract circle that the reduction in the rate will take place at the time of payment of three months' daily allowance. On the basis of the existing principle that a full month's daily allowance is 160, 63 hours, 3 months has been translated into 481 hours, and the coinage ensures that all non-contributory graduates have the opportunity to receive 3 months at the initial higher rate of graduating regardless of how the right to benefit is consumed in relation to calendar months. We have tried to stick to existing principles and methods through the coinage and, at the same time, we need to find a balance in terms of implementing the political agreement, and I think we have found the right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140415	Now we must be aware that social events can occur on all days other than the last one in a month, and it is whether you become a provider or whether you turn 30 or what may happen to social events. But has the Minister considered whether it can be administered at all without individual rate calculation in the cashiers? And has the Minister considered whether the additional problem that will lie in the interaction between cashiers and job centres, especially in connection with the change of rates during illness, can be solved at all without individual treatment and post-regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140447	After all, we have a dialogue with Danske A-banker and have also read their consultation answer, and we are always open to good ideas, but it must always be weighed up against the balance and consideration of what has been agreed in the political agreement. And what has been agreed in the political agreement is that we should be able to have the higher rate of graduating for three months and not for four months, and that is why we have made the minting choices we have. But I also foresee that the 20 question here is the warming up of some discussions that will probably have to be during the committee procedure if I know Mrs Jette Gottlieb correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140524	I look forward to that and hope it will be the case. However, I would like to say that, in my experience, it is almost impossible to administer what has been adopted and that it has been agreed in a conciliation group is not a guarantee that it can be done. There I would like to ask that a passage be introduced into the law to make a thorough evaluation of the administrative problems one year after entry into force. Because first there you can see whether it is the government or me who is right on that issue. Is the Minister prepared to introduce a sunset clause on those provisions with regard to the provisions on changing the graduation rate, so that one can be forced to change it if it turns out that it is relatively unmanageable?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140613	So the government has no wish and is therefore not open to introducing a sunset clause into these new rules. I always think it makes sense to evaluate both the manageability and the effects of new legislation. I think it would be premature to do so after 1 year, and I do not see any need to include it in the legislation either. However, I would say that we always want the rules that are adopted to be evaluated so that they can be used as a basis for other decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140650	The questioner, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140651	After all, in one year's time it is not certain that it is the same government that sits, and that is why I would ask that it be written into the law that one might want such an evaluation after one year. Because it will highlight any problems that may arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140716	At the same time, however, this would also mean that there was a sunset for the very significant improvements in the benefit system in general, which our changes in the graduation area are helping to open up. And, of course, we are not interested in that. In general terms, I would say to Mrs Jette Gottlieb that I certainly intend to do my part and more so that there is no other government in the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140741	Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb for the questions and thank you to the Minister for Employment for the answers. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 10 to the Minister for Education and Research, and the questioner is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140758	Thank you. Why does the Minister not support the work of the Education Partnerships for Sustainable Development?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140808	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504140810	Thank you. The government wants Denmark to take the lead in the fight for the climate and take leadership on the green transition. It also requires that we train students who have the right skills to be able to lift the green transition into practice. It is therefore important that the green transition is intended as an integral part of also higher education, and we need all the initiatives that can make us wiser on the way there. That is why I think it is positive that a large number of organisations have jointly drawn up the Action Plan for Education for Sustainable Development, which they have presented to the Minister for Children and Education. It shows how the sustainable development of our society is a broad-based desire. Of course, I support the good initiative of the training partnerships for education in sustainable development. At the same time, I would also like to emphasise that a great deal is already happening on the green agenda, both in educational institutions and in society in general. Earlier today, we have published a major survey of the extent of green learning outcomes in higher education, showing that many education across all education is actively working with sustainability and green transition. These are elements of actually, very, very many educations today. Here there is a great potential for spreading the good experiences and the much knowledge that already lies, and we will work to support that. Within my region, a lot of governance is also carried out through strategic framework contracts concluded with individual educational institutions, and their ambitions in this area, which also reflects the government's, are clearly seen in the fact that the framework contracts concluded at the beginning of the year have put clear growth and sustainability as an integral part of the training. I myself am also ready to discuss a wish raised by among others. student and student organisations to change the purpose of educational institutions so that their contribution to ensuring a more sustainable society is clarified. I shall call the Folketing to discuss this shortly. In other words, there should be no doubt that I think it is important for Denmark to take the lead in the green transition and that it is also reflected in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141022	Thank you for that answer. As I said, in this partnership, Education in Sustainable Development, a large number of organisations and also a large number of higher education institutions are participating. That is why two of the great tracks that are here are also under the Minister for Education and Research and, as the Minister himself says, it requires creating a greener Denmark and a greener future action at many levels, and it also requires us to think it into our educational institutions all the way through, including in the field of higher education. And if you look at the Nordic Council report "Mapping Education for Sustainability" from spring 2021, it is also clear that Denmark is lagging behind, especially in relation to Norway and Finland, but also Sweden, which for many years has had a knowledge centre for education for sustainable development, and Germany and Ireland have for many years had a national action plan for education for sustainable development, where you simply follow who is responsible for implementing the various parts. We are not so far in Denmark to go systematically to this, and that is a pity, which is why I think it is a pity that the Minister for Higher Education is not taking part on an equal footing with the Minister for Education in this cooperation and with these recommendations. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister would not like to meet them and receive the recommendations. Because although some organizations have previously talked about a purpose clause, I certainly do not see it as the absolutely golden core to just solve it all here. And shouldn't we try to meet them at ministerial level in this area too?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141229	I do not really believe that this is anything else if I have to deal with the question that has been raised and with the intention that we have a division of labour here in the government, where it is my colleague, the Minister for Children and Education, who is so boarded by the government in the contacts with the organisations and others involved in this work. However, to the extent that it requires changes or discussions which also involve the rapporteur, of which Mrs Katrine Robsøe is a part, I am of course also interested. And I would just like to add to the answer that, in relation to Mapping and overview, we are now working on the way I explained before, that is to say that we now actually have an overview of the extent of green content and benefits in our higher education, and this is the first time we have got it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141321	Yes, and it has only come today, so I also regret that I have not read it all. I hear the Minister so that we can look forward to the Minister also meeting with the two sections working in the field of higher education under this Education Partnership for Sustainable Development. Does the Minister have any other steps to take, as has been the case? Because if the Minister does not want to guarantee it, then the Minister must have other proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141355	Of course, I'll follow you too. Although it is my colleague, the Minister for Children and Education, who is at the bottom of the table, I am of course also following that work and, as I indicated before, I will, as far as is relevant, also engage in the discussions that come out of the work relevant to my resort, and I will also be happy to discuss the subject further. And I can hear that Mrs Katrine Robsøe has different inspirations from other countries, which we may also be able to use, and I would very much like to discuss that. After all, the responsibility for these higher education courses in Denmark lies directly with the individual institutions. There we have emphasized that it came into their strategic framework contract that they have to work on these things, and they have done so to a very large extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141437	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141439	Thank you. I also agree that it is important in Denmark to ensure that we leave the administration of our higher education to those institutions. I think they're the best at that. However, achieving our climate ambitions is also a political objective, which is why it is important to take action here. In conclusion, I would just like to thank the Minister for what I hear as a very open door to this and to the partnerships that are sitting here to provide their input so that the Minister will accept the input that comes from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141515	Thank you for the exchange here, and of course I am happy to accept those recommendations and also to discuss them with both the Radical Left and others in the circle of rapporteurs in our area here. Today, as I have said, we have had a survey, and I certainly do not blame Mrs Katrine Robsøe for the fact that, in the few hours that have elapsed since it was published, it is not exactly what has been read from cover to cover. However, it provides a starting point for taking this discussion, just as recommendations from the work we are discussing here can do so, just as we can also take the discussion on actual purpose clauses along the way. So thank you for now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141551	Thank you to Mrs Robsøe from the questions, and thank you to the Minister for Education and Research for the answers. Then I would like to welcome our very newest Minister for Home Affairs and Housing in his 48th hour. Congratulations on the job. And there is today a question from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, Denmark Liberal Party, to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141616	Thank you. Congratulations, too, from me to the new minister. I have to say that when I formulated the questions, I was not aware that it was Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, I was supposed to ask the questions, but I look forward to asking the questions. The first question is: what is the Minister's view that the new distribution key for LAG funds will mean that the most vulnerable rural municipalities will be allocated less funds in future than hitherto?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141644-2	Thank you very much for the greetings and also thank you for the opportunity to respond to the question of these important local action groups, which are making a great effort in our local areas to create life and new activities. It is an effort that is so important that, in the present government too, we have set aside considerably more funds than have been allocated in the past, which means that there is more to be done today and also in the coming period than there has been in the past. The 93 million. DKK, which is now to be distributed among the LAGs in the coming period, should be distributed over the period referred to as 2023-2027. That is the period we are talking about here. During the last period, funds were allocated through a key allocation key. This meant that the LAG municipalities which have experienced negative population development received an increased subsidy amount. Many rural municipalities, however, have experienced stabilisation or progress, and that is a very positive thing. Therefore, the Danish Housing and Planning Authority has proposed that the LAG funds be distributed equally between all designated municipalities over the next period. As a relatively new minister, I think this is appropriate in the light of the positive developments that have taken place in rural areas. However, it is the case that the final distribution key of LAG funds must be laid down in a notice which must then be consulted before it is applicable. I have been informed by my ministry that the rural rapporteurs have been informed of this proposal for the new distribution in connection with a meeting of the contracting circle for more life in urban and rural areas, and that the parties in this regard did not have any comments at all. However, if there is a desire among the parties and the rapporteurs to re-examine this issue, I am prepared to do so. With this, my initial thoughts on the distribution to date and on the new distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141837	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504141839	Thank you for your answer. I must also be honest and say that I will not be aware of this until I have some inquiries. And it is probably not surprising that it is from some of the municipalities that are about to get rid of some money compared to the fact that they have so far had to do away with it. It is clear, then, that when I hear that the municipality of Lolland and, for that matter, a municipality like Tønder, which I also know the Minister knows very well, suddenly has to hand in a lot of money, I am also worried, because then I have some doubts as to whether the right distribution key has actually been made. I can also be honest and say that, for that matter, I have also spoken to some other LAG coordinators from some municipalities, who perhaps belong to the most prosperous, at least in my view. They have also wondered why they should suddenly have more money to do good with. It is, of course, on the basis of that that I would also like to ask a little more about this key. Because, as I understand it, it is the case that we are now going to try to make a more equal distribution, but I hope we can agree, Minister, that we also need to keep our hands on the municipalities that are in the hardest position. Surely they are the ones who in some way also need an extra handshake?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142008	Thank you for the question. It is thought from the outset that LAG funds must be given to municipalities which are in various ways challenged and which may need to be given some funding to boost local activities that can create more life, more cohesion and thus also more balance in Denmark. That is the objective. What may be the challenge is that maintaining the current distribution will mean that of the ten municipalities which have had positive population development, it will have approx. 800,000 kroner. less than they get today. That is why, as a starting point, I have thought that the change is sensible. However, as I have said, I am open to having a discussion with the rapporteurs and also with the rapporteur, if you wish, in relation to looking at the allocation key.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142100	Yes, please. I'd be happy to accept that invitation. And then it could be that the Minister would give us a cup of coffee and we could have a discussion on these matters, possibly with the rapporteur of the Left in this area, i.e. Peter Juel-Jensen. Because I might see this and the new model has also been referred to as a little like a reverse Robin Hood model. And it can be said that this is certainly not what I have thought about the LAG funds, that they should somehow be an inverse Robin Hood model. I am not saying that I have the solution to how it could be made better, clear, but I just think it is important that you reach, among other things. People from Lolland and for that matter from Tønder are now responding because they get so many fewer crowns to do well with, maybe this discussion is also taking place. You could also choose to have a more thorough discussion with the Joint Council of Rural Regions, etc. And I know we won't hear from those who get more money. We'll hear from those who get less money. But that is why I still believe that one might find a model that was more reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142211	It is a discussion that I would very much like to take. It is, of course, as the rapporteur has said at the end, that if we make a new model which can take account of a number of considerations, there will be some who, compared with the last period, will get less and some who get more. So, of course, there will be some who sit in an organisation where they get less money than today, but fortunately relatively much money compared to what it has been in the past. But I would say that as a relatively new minister there are two things that are lit: the reading lamp and the coffee machine. So let's have a cup of coffee and have a look at and discuss this question too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142250	The questioner with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142252	I would just like to end by asking: will you not just be able to maintain the model you have now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142300	Yes, it would be possible to do that, but then you would experience the bias that exists in that it is relatively few municipalities which, fortunately, are experiencing a decline in the population. And the municipalities would get a very large plus, whereas the municipalities that have experienced stabilisation would get a minus. I have doubts about this, to put it quite frankly, whether it reflects the real challenges we see in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142335	Thank you to the questioner and to the Minister. We shall now proceed to the last question to the Ministers today, namely Question No. 12, and it is also to the Minister for Housing, and the questioner is also Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142351	Does the Minister consider that the new allocation key for LAG funds is both reasonable and appropriate when the allocation of funds no longer takes account of population decline in the respective municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142404	Thank you. This is an appropriate question, because it is a little in line with what we were just discussing. In the question put by the questioner, there is, of course, a premise that the most vulnerable rural communities are those who have experienced a population decline. As a new minister in this area, I believe that there are a number of different factors that can determine whether a municipality is a exposed rural municipality. This may, of course, be a decline in population development, but, as I see it, it can be both a decline in employment or, for example, a shortage of labour. These criteria will then define some other municipalities as the most vulnerable. And it therefore seems to me that there may be a number of criteria and that it may therefore also be difficult to find exactly the right criterion for a completely fair distribution in order to repeat the premise in the question. The fact that it may be difficult to find the right criteria speaks, as I see it, for a fairer distribution, so that the LAGs can use their energy to create projects for the benefit of the local community rather than to spend time on whether the allocation key is quite right now compared to their LAGs, not least because there are more funds in those years than there have been in the past. As I said earlier, the final distribution of LAG funds must be laid down in a notice and sent to consultation, and therefore, if the conciliation circle so wishes, there is an opportunity for us to discuss the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142529	It's kind of the same thing we're dealing with in this question, but when I look at the overview of what you can expect from 2023 onwards, I can see if I just take Tønder Municipality out that LAG Haderslev-Tønder will then have 637,000 DKK. less to do well with than they have had in the past. And that, of course, is what they are reacting to me, because it may well be true that, as the Minister says, there are different criteria that can be measured, and I have to say that I am one of them. in the context of the negotiation of the compensatory reform, we know how to turn on different screws. But I would like to ask the Minister, before we have to drink coffee, if the Minister could ask the officials to look at whether another key could be created, which might perhaps be more reasonable in that it causes less anxiety, also in view of the fact that I have received reactions from someone who has suddenly received more money and who has also asked me: why do we need more money?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142646	I really think that this is a very good discussion, which also reveals that it may be difficult to find the criteria which generally and most fairly identify which municipalities and which LAG areas most need to be taken into account. And it is clear that the easiest solution may be not to change the criteria, but I also believe that as politicians we have a task in not only choosing the easiest but also choosing what is the right thing. And if I may ask the rapporteur to address himself in writing to the criteria which the rapporteur would like to see excavated, we would be very happy to provide material prior to a possible meeting on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142733	Just as I pointed it out in relation to Tønder, who had approached me and who thinks it is unreasonable, I can say that there are some that I am at least also surprised about, and I can mention the City of Billund, who suddenly gets it and I dare even say that, even if it is there, I myself live 1 million. kr. more to do good with than they usually get. That is also why it would be nice to have some different proposals, because I think that if you turned on some other criteria, what would it look like?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142810	I have taken note of this, and I look forward to receiving a number of questions and possibly some suggestions as to what criteria could be laid down, from the questioner, so that we can get a distribution, just with the remark that, as the questioner will also be aware from the compensatory reforms that we participated in together, it will always be the case that when new criteria are introduced, there will be new winners and new losers, and therefore we will be able to pull out other examples of municipalities and LAG groups, which will then come out of it well and less well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142849	Then it is the questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142852	I think I will just finish by asking the Minister how long I have to ask these questions and when there is a deadline for announcements etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142902	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142903	As I am informed, the announcement will have to be consulted before the summer, so let us get the questions over as quickly as they can, and then we will have a process organised to ensure that we can both have a good discussion and draw conclusions before we send them to consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142923	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and thank you to Mrs Matthiesen for today's questions and answers. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504142935	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr President. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143031	Thank you for that, President. As has already been said by the President, the two legislative proposals we are now working together are, of course, the basis for holding the referendum on the abolition of our defence reserve and on our participation in European defence and security cooperation. If we in the Social Democratic Party recommend that we vote in favour of this vote; if we want to have a vote at all on our participation in joint cooperation in the field of security and defence, then of course it is because we are in a new and serious security policy situation in Europe. With Putin's brutal invasion of a neighbouring country, there are many things that have changed, of course, first and foremost for Ukrainians who are under attack, but it is also, even if the war is going on in Ukraine, a war or an attack, whether you like, on the peace, the security, democratic rights and the freedom that we in many other countries also enjoy. I believe that at a time like this, when Putin is clearly seeking division, is seeking to drive us apart, to break up the alliances that exist and to break us apart, it is extremely important that we stand together in the communities that stand for the same values as those we fight for in Denmark, with the allies that we have worked with for so many years and these are both the allies we have in European cooperation, our NATO allies and the other Western associations. I think we need to do away with ourselves now, whether we want to strengthen the communities that are our best response to Putin's aggression. That is why we have made a national compromise in which we want to strengthen Danish defence and strengthen our contribution to NATO, which is, of course, the guarantor of peace and security. And that is also why we want to be able to participate and I say could, because you decide whether you want to take part in the specific actions of the joint European cooperation in the field of security and defence. There have been these discussions about Denmark as a small country in a large uncertain world, and regardless of how you put it, I think it is clear to me and the Social Democrats that when so many things happen that is also what has been heard from the 'no' side: we do not quite know what is happening and there is an incredible amount of uncertainty, and should we not stick to what we know and go with it securely? The world isn't what we thought it was. A few months ago it was unthinkable, perhaps naive, but not many of us thought that we could see war on the European continent again, a war of aggression in which a country is attacking a smaller neighbour. And in such uncertain times, I actually believe that our best security, our best assurance, our best defense is to stand together across national borders with those with whom we share values. That is, in fact, the main heading for, the main reason why we think the Danes should be asked. We have a reservation which is approx. Thirty years old, we have a completely new situation in Europe and we need, we believe, to signal that Putin should not succeed in tearing us apart; on the contrary, we are more united and more united in defending our peace and security than we have ever done. We support the proposals under discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143430	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143434	After all, we have had a lot of debate on not only the organisation of the present Treaty, and what can happen there, which says that you must have an EU defence, etc., but also about future treaties. After all, we have seen EU cooperation developing in all areas in the near future, which I do not believe even social democracy has foreseen, even though it has historically recommended a yes all times. That is why the Foreign Minister has been out to say that if there are changes in defence here in the EU Treaty, one would ask the Danes again. After all, I have read the way it is formulated, and I assume that the rapporteur has also been zealously interested in it, and there I would just like to ask something: why is it not all changes to the future EU defence that will be promised to the Danes they will be asked about? Why do you try so hard to say that these are only changes where you get a real army, or changes in Article 31 (1)? Four? After all, there are plenty of other parts of EU defence in the Treaty that can be imagined to be changed, why is it only here that a political promise is made to ask the Danes again?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143543	That assurance, you might say, is an expression of the fact that a debate has been held. There are a lot of people who have said that we will then have an EU army and, by the way, it is the European Union that must be able to send soldiers to war and all those things that are just not right. For it is intergovernmental cooperation, and it will be the Danish Parliament, we who sit here, who will have to make the difficult decision, it may be to participate, how we will participate and what we will participate in. Then a question has been raised as to whether it could change whether one could get into the situation that it was not so in the future. That is where the Foreign Minister and the government and the rest of us have said: in this situation there will be a treaty change and then there will have to be a referendum. We cannot imagine that we will be in the situation where it is actually a wish that is being translated, but if it should happen, we have, in order that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt should not be awake at night, said that then we are of course willing to ask the Danes again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143646	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143647	Now it has happened quite many times that something you have not been able to imagine has become reality. This applies from the Union, which was stone-death, to maternity rules and above pay rules, etc., where you have promised the Danes that the European Union could not interfere, but the European Union does so anyway today. But what interests me is that you only mention Article 31 (1). 4, as where you will promise a new referendum, but not for example. Article 42 (1) 4. That is to say, because the Social Democratic Party can be taken into account and that is what I would like to ask the rapporteur to remove the right of veto in Article 42 (1). Fourthly, is the legal provision for a decision on the common security and defence policy without holding a referendum on the future? That is what the comments on the draft law say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143729	I very often experience the debate on the European Union and that is perhaps a little bit • that we are being asked to guarantee what is not happening in 10, 20 years' time, and in a world like this it is a little bit difficult to know what is happening. But that is actually why the no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Morten Messerschmidt and other skeptics, for when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt says that it has happened before that it has developed, we say: yes, it has happened before, we do not imagine that it can happen here, but should it happen that there will be a real EU army, so it is not in the Danish Parliament that we decide whether to participate, there will be treaty changes, and then we will have to ask the Danes again. Well, it's really just a certainty that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can sleep safely.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143820	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143821	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Fortunately, this can be solved by having it written directly into the legislative text rather than in the comments. But I would now like to ask the rapporteur something else. Now, in his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur attaches great importance to the fact that we must be part of communities and the whole new situation after 24 February. That is also quite right, but we are now talking in concrete terms about a legislative proposal here, which is about abolishing an EU defence reserve. Could the rapporteur be a little more specific in relation to where it is that it will alter Denmark's ability to contribute in relation to the legitimate right of the Ukrainian people to defend themselves against illegal aggression from Russia? Where exactly is it that this will make a difference in relation to what the rapporteur is quite rightly talking about: that here it is important that we are part of communities and that we can signal where we stand. Where exactly is the difference between the defence reserve and the defence reserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504143920	In fact, I see that in its response, in its response to the invasion in Ukraine, the European Union has been historically united. I know, sir. Peder Hvelplund also agrees that there must be severe economic sanctions and that we must get rid of the gas, we must ensure humanitarian aid and, incidentally, we must accept the refugees. There too, in fact, quite good conditions have been created in the European countries in order to help the refugees who are there. So it can be said that we have responded to the crisis in Ukraine, and we do not claim, as such, that we could have done anything else in Ukraine a month ago without the defence reserve. What we are saying is that the security situation we are seeing now has changed the situation in Europe and, in this situation, we believe that it would be wiser of Denmark, even though we have also been able to contribute to what is happening in Ukraine, to actually fully join us. In fact, we also believe that we have a duty to contribute to the defence and security cooperation in Europe, which is our best bulwark against Putin or other challenges. It is also obvious that Putin not only acts in Ukraine. There are so many other places where he seeks to destabilise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144034	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144035	But now that we are in a situation where the security picture in Europe and at global level has changed and we have to react, it is true that the Enhedslisten has helped to support the fact that we have been able to send weapons to the legitimate resistance struggle of the Ukrainian Government. We have advocated even tougher sanctions than what the government has been willing to do to some of the things we know to work in concrete terms. Should this not have been what we were discussing in the Parliamentary Chamber today: how could we support even more in preventing the situation we have just experienced from occurring again, rather than discussing something that I can hear we agree that will not make any difference in relation to the current situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144117	After all, we have had a lot of discussions in the Folketing, also about the things we have agreed on, and I am glad that Enhedslisten has backed up when there have been arms supplies, for example, in support of Ukrainians. On the other hand, we disagreed, and the Enhedslisten has voted against when we wanted to support and strengthen our NATO allies in the Baltic countries, for example. There we did not want to give that support to those countries that were insecure, and there we disagree on how to act internationally and on what we should work together on. I think perhaps what this is all about is that for social democracy it is quite important that we are both able to count on and that we contribute in NATO and that we are also involved in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144158	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144159	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. I would just like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to perhaps clarify a little more about the EU policy of social democracy. For the last three years or so, I think that, as the EU rapporteur, I have heard a rather critical line and also that we really did not need to change anything on the reservation. So would the rapporteur like to elaborate on the shift that has taken place in the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144228	Yes, of course I'd like to. The Conservative rapporteur is right, of course, that there have been times over the last few years when we have been extremely critical. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt has previously mentioned the minimum wage directive, the maternity leave area, there have been a great many areas where we have been arming, including with the EU system. It is not the case, when you are involved in binding cooperation, that you will necessarily agree with everything that is going on. But that it's a good idea to work together is pretty obvious. What, then, has changed in relation to the defence reserve? In fact, I think that is the whole situation in Europe. It can be said that a few months ago, when we said that we are starting from the fact that we have a reservation and that we are working as hard as possible around that reservation, we do believe that Putin's invasion of Ukraine has given us a new situation where there is a need for more than ever to come together, but where there will also, presumably, be a development in that cooperation. What is going to happen in the Balkans, where there are also forces trying to divide and create ethnic tensions with Putin's intervention? And how do we best deal with the uncertainty that has been created elsewhere than in Ukraine? We believe that we are doing the best by participating fully in the cooperation we have in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144346	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144347	Thank you. On 24 February 2022 is a landmark day for us and for the European security order. Can the rapporteur elaborate a little more on what the Social Democratic Party expects to get out of defence cooperation, in case we have the defence reserve removed on 1 June? What is also expected to benefit Denmark more specifically?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144412	One might say that it is on several different levels. However, it is quite clear that our allies in our primary alliance, NATO, the guarantor of peace and stability, have said that there is a need for Europe to take greater responsibility for the security of our neighbourhood, for example in the Balkans. There you could imagine that in our neighbourhood there would be tasks where NATO would say forward-looking that they actually think the European Union should promise, and we in the Social Democrats think that we should contribute to that by Danish, if it is a sensible operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144452	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144454	Sir. Jens Joel knows very well that the vote on the defence reserve has little to do with Russia's attack on Ukraine, perhaps just the fact that it is used as an opportunity to get rid of the defence reserve. What the vote is really about is whether Denmark should be fully involved in European military cooperation and thus also start building an EU army that a number of European countries are already planning. Why on earth will the Socialists help build an EU army when we have an excellent NATO which is a defence alliance made up of sovereign countries with national military devices and which is fantastic at orchestrating a military effort, which the EU is not? Why do the Socialists want to help make such an EU army? We don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144557	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144558	After all, false claims are not really being repeated. There is no EU army and we do not want an EU army.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144608	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144609	I figured that's the answer I'd get. Now I have been around Europe, and every time I talk to my European colleagues, they all say: we must have an EU army; it may not come today, and it may not come tomorrow, but it will at least come the day after tomorrow; and that is what we want. President Macron of France wants it, the Germans want it, why on earth is it said in Denmark that there will be no EU army? There will be one, and will the Socialists really help to build an EU army that will undermine NATO? What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144645	Social democracy will not be a part of this. But I find it interesting that while the real concern, while the real challenge is obviously Putin's Russia and the invasion of Ukraine, is the biggest scare picture that the Danish People's Party can conjure up, Macron. It's okay to disagree with Macron. There are also some areas where I disagree with him. However, I think it gives a somewhat distorted impression of the debate that the scare pictures in the DF's campaign are the collaborators and allies we have in our European cooperation, and not the real challenge, namely that we are facing an aggressive Russia and a Putin that has invaded a neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144727	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144728	Thank you. I think it is a frightening picture if we should have an EU army, and that is why it is important to discuss in such a situation; otherwise we might as well not discuss, because that is what has been the main issue since 1992. And I can say that in 1992 it really was the defence reserve that touched the people most. I would like to focus a little on the right of veto, which the government has sometimes highlighted. There Mrs Trine Bramsen said before deciding that it should now be abolished: we are sitting at the table in the European Union, and I know the conditions in the European Union. It is difficult to maintain the right of veto for small countries, because they are being pressured very hard, and this will in fact mean that it will be almost impossible to maintain the right of veto, she said. Trine Bramsen argued at the time to maintain the defence reservation. Is it not true that the right of veto has only a certain significance if a government believes that it will use the right of veto, and this is also happening at a closed meeting where we do not know whether or not to use the right of veto, because in the vast majority of cases you go in and say: that is okay. You also have a special arrangement in which you say that you just take a step back if others want to be contractors to some war; and then you don't vote against. Is not the Social Democrat rapporteur also afraid of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144845	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504144846	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the debate that took place in 1992, in which I myself was not very active, because there was also a fear of an EU army. One wonders why the fact that it has not come in the 30 years when it has been threatened to come next week has not made it possible to reconsider whether it is actually on its way. But I agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that, of course, we should discuss it. That's quite fair. What I call a scare picture is that you say when it does not actually come, but of course we have to discuss what it is that we have of security. Now, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and other colleagues mentioned that if you want to go that way with the Treaty changes and everything that goes with it, we will have a different referendum. That is, of course, what has been the message, because we do not want insecurity in this area. It is clear that when we have not argued in the past for lifting the defence reservation, it has been out of respect for the decision that had been taken, but it has also been an expression that in the reality we were in, it was possible to find practical solutions. There it was possible to arrange around it. Now we are in a new reality where there is a need, we believe that we are even more united and united in the common defence of our values.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145007	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145016	I could also quote the Prime Minister, who has not met people in the EU system who thought it was a problem to have a defence reserve, precisely because they are creative to be at the tables and so on. However, I just think that if we do not have an EU army but have combat groups, and if the people say yes to removing the defence reserve, then the government must side down at closed meetings in the European Union and decide whether we should be part of PESCO, be part of the fighting groups, etc. And in that case, we may well become a tool for example. France's very special activities in North Africa, which primarily take account of France's old colonial times and their businesses down there and not of defending Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145111	I believe that this is a somewhat simplistic version of the risks and security risks actually associated with some of the activity that is taking place on the African continent. Now we mentioned before that Putin was active in the Balkans. I should like to say that it is Putin and some of his troops also in Africa. So I firmly believe that it is perfectly possible to argue in favour, which may also be • but, of course, not always • interventions that are obviously in the interests of European security policy, also on the African continent. However, it is more important to say that what we are discussing here is, of course, whether the Danish Parliament should have the opportunity to participate. With the reservation, we cannot, however reasonable it may be. If we do away with it, we can make the decision in here. We also do so when it comes to our contribution to NATO, as the Enhedslisten would like to see where the pepper grows, but that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145205	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145206	Thank you. There are a lot of myths and a lot of lies in this whole debate about the defence reserve, most recently compared to the two previous questioners who are talking about an EU army. I would like to thank the rapporteur for saying that this is not true and that we in Parliament will have to vote on sending missions to specific places and that we cannot give general authority. I would also just like to ask the rapporteur whether one also agrees that, according to the Treaty of Lisbon, this is not possible at all. For the purposes of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71: Secondly, national security is the sole responsibility of the Member States. And according to Article 42 (2) of the Rules of Procedure... Thirdly, it is up to the Member States to make soldiers available, so the soldiers are Denmark's responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145251	Thank you. By its very nature, I can confirm what Mrs Bjerre has read from the Treaty. And then it is quite right that no matter when and how you ask, it is us and it is a heavy responsibility; I myself have been sitting here while we have helped send Danish soldiers out into the world that has a really heavy responsibility. But I am aware that what is actually being said from the 'no' point of view is that one basically does not trust the Folketing to make that decision. And then you pretend that it is the European Union that is being asked to do so. It's not. It will always be our responsibility. We must take that on board, even if it is difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145333	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145335	Thank you. I am sorry to have to correct the Social Democrat rapporteur, but it was said that the opponents had been telling for 30 years about this ghost of a European army coming. At least opponents have been doing this for 50 years, and if you take a trip to the Old Town in Aarhus, you can see in a collective from 1976 such signs that ironize what will happen if you vote yes to the European Community, as it was then called: stop the release of women ■ yes to the European Community. All power to big business, yes to the EC. And so it says: Yes to the Community army, yes to the Community. So it's for at least 50 years that you've come with this ghost that hasn't yet manifested itself anywhere but in the lively imagination of the opponents.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145430	It's always a pleasure to be corrupted by sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. In fact, I myself have been to that exhibition in the Old Town, where they are currently exhibiting a lot of the old posters. I referred, of course, to the fact that it was raised 30 years ago when we discussed the reservation. But it is true that it has been a prejudice, a scaremongering long before it, and it will no longer be true of that. It does not mean that the debate is not important. I just think that we should recognise what the facts are in that debate as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145504	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145505	We heard Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from Dansk Folkeparti... Alex Ahrendtsen Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen! ) That's what I said, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's gender says that the EU army may not be coming today, nor will it come tomorrow or the day after, but it will come. Well, isn't it a little hard to believe people who have been saying that for 50 years? It is a bit like those who are demonstrating that the end is near and the ground is going to end tomorrow, and then when they keep saying it 50 years in a row and the ground still doesn't end, isn't it a little hard to take it seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145541	I think it is fine that we have a debate. I also think that at some point we should be dealing with what is up and down in it, and I can only say that I am the target of what we think about it. Actually, there is no EU army. Does the Social Democratic Party want an EU army? No, we don't. We want to contribute to the joint missions that we may find sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145601	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145602	Thank you. I heard what I thought was a misunderstanding in the debate, and I just wanted to say that Mr. Jens Joel confirmed whether it is not true that if Denmark is involved in European defence cooperation and we decide to join some military missions or projects in PESCO, then it is not the case that the government sits in a closed room down in the EU and on behalf of Denmark decides whether we should enter into this without consulting the Folketing. In my opinion, the Foreign Policy Name and the Folketing will still have to be asked for legislation if they are to be included in military missions, even if they are EU missions. And you will also have to ask the European Committee for legislation if you are to be included in different projects in PESCO. - Sir... Jens Joel confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145652-2	Yes, a government must have a majority, at least not a majority against those decisions. It is clear that when we have voted on whether we should contribute militarily in the world, we have voted in this Chamber and not in some dark or closed room somewhere that was not known. It also has such a bit of comedy over it, because has it been imagined that soldiers could actually be sent to war without anyone discovering it? It seems a bit like you're trying to create a picture that you can just do that without it being discovered, or without you having to ask someone, and that's obviously not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145726	Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145730	Yes, that was my view too, and that means that, even if we are part of European defence cooperation, it is still the Folketing that decides where to send our soldiers, what projects we should be involved in, and what material we should contribute around the world, whether it is EU missions and EU projects or NATO missions and NATO projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145755	Yes, in this way it works a bit the same way as when you have NATO missions, if you have EU resources. The countries contribute if they wish to contribute and they contribute what they can or will contribute, to the extent that they think it is sensible. That is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145812	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504145828	Thank you, Mr President. It's good to be here today. I am really, really happy to be here, and this is because a majority in the Folketing has decided to send the defence reserve to a referendum. I am well aware that it is not the entire population of Denmark that is, and therefore I also hope that the debate we have at first reading can provide some clarity about what is the facts, what is not the facts and what it is that I think distorts the whole debate on what this referendum is about. With the proposal, we are trying to create the legal basis for giving the Danes the opportunity to vote either yes or no to abolishing the defence reserve. Let me say that it has long been the wish of the Left to have a referendum on the defence reserve, because we are today in a situation where the security policy agenda is completely different from it when we introduced the reservation 30 years ago. Thirty years ago, if we remember back, the Cold War was just over, the liberal world order had won, we won the European Championship in football, everything was peace and idyllic. Sort of. Today it is different; today we are in a situation where there is actually war in Europe. In fact, we are in a situation where there is a country that has invaded a sovereign other country, completely regardless of democracy, human rights, all sorts of other values that we have built on Western society, and we must of course take care of that. It is necessary for us to show ourselves on the security policy agenda in a completely different way than we have done in the past. What does that have to do with reservations? Yes, today we have a reservation that means that we cannot actually participate in anything that we might like to participate in. Note that I say maybe I'd like to take part in that election, because we don't have that choice today. We remove the reservation, we get the opportunity to be involved in some cooperation on the security policy agenda that we do not have today. Let me mention that for a long time we have not actually taken part in a peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, and we have not, because that mission was a NATO mission from the outset, and because NATO no longer wanted it, the European Union took it over, and because we have a defence reservation, we cannot participate in the EU peacekeeping mission that we have in Bosnia. I am very sorry about that, and we in the Left have been doing so for a very long time. In fact, in our strategic programme since 2006, we have had the wish to abolish the defence reserve. It is a really important part of us to address the fact that the security situation has changed completely in Europe, and it can be proved with the things that have happened, especially in relation to what happened in 2014, with Russia's takeover of Crimea, and now they have entered Ukraine and have completely destroyed the country. There is another security policy agenda. We also think it is important that we participate in structured cooperation on the security agenda, and we think it is important that we participate in the capacity building that is if they so wish. We must have the opportunity to do so. In other words, from time to time we can decide whether we should be involved in what the others are proposing, or as we propose ourselves, for that matter. It's a very important part of this. That is why we in the Left have decided to vote in favour of removing the defence reserve, because we should not stand outside and look in when others take responsibility for security, for security, for the Danes and for Europeans. In fact, I also find it difficult to imagine that the Danes, in general terms, can just stand outside when others defend Western rights. I believe that we in Denmark want to share in taking responsibility. I believe that if we were given the opportunity to do so, we would also be involved in a great deal of the defence capacity building that would be, the security policy agenda. There may be something we want to say 'yes' to what may be something we want to say 'no' to, but I think we would like to do so in general. So let me conclude by saying that what lies in this is not supranational cooperation, it is intergovernmental cooperation, it is intergovernmental cooperation. I say this here because there should be no doubt that if there is a surrender of sovereignty on defence cooperation, of course that is the case, and then there is a vote on it. That is what has been promised to the Danes, and of course we are in favour of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150528	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150542	I would like to know whether, in the light of his speech here, the rapporteur will explain to him and to him the difference between supranational and intergovernmental cooperation within the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150551	Now I think back to the thesis I did at the university on exactly that subject, no, joke aside, of course I didn't. But what I am saying here is that in the intergovernmental agreement made through the European Union in these areas, we must have the opportunity to say yes or no from time to time. Those are options we're taking in. If it is the case that we are looking at some supranational cooperation, then it is that we want to go out in defence and ask the Danes again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150622	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150626	Should I understand that the difference between supranational and intergovernmental is that the intergovernmental does not have majority decisions? If so, I would like the rapporteur to take a look at Article 42. 4 and to Articles 45 and 46. For there are majority decisions. And these are three of the provisions that will be activated if the defence reserve is removed. So can the rapporteur come a little closer, in other words the differences between supranational or intergovernmental, since it is so important in his speech that defence policy is intergovernmental?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150657	But there is no doubt that this is intergovernmental cooperation. That is what is mentioned in all regulations and everywhere. So if it is the case that there will be supranational cooperation, then we will ask the Danes again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150709	Well, thank you for that, and then it's Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150713	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned that the rapporteur was of the opinion that the Danes did not want Denmark to be outside the common obligations to defend democratic rights. I think the rapporteur is absolutely right about that. I just want to hear, the rapporteur himself mentioned Bosnia, whether it is the rapporteur's view that the soldiers we sent down to the United Nations mission, whom I think spoke about 60 000 men, to defend the Dayton Peace Agreement, were the expression that Denmark was outside the joint work of defending democratic rights. The reality is that Denmark has ample opportunity to participate. The Enhedslisten has asked questions on several occasions here in the Parliamentary Chamber about whether the government plans to participate, for example. in mine clearance in Bosnia. We could easily do that bypassing EU cooperation. The government has had no interest in that. So the opportunity for us to participate is absolutely present. The only question is whether this should take place through EU cooperation. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur, since the rapporteur says that the Left has been so anxious to remove this reservation, what it is in concrete terms for some military operations that the rapporteur is sorry we are not involved in. Is it Mali, is it Central Africa, is it Mozambique, or is it training the Libyan Coast Guard to prevent migrants from coming up to Europe with enormous consequences for human rights? Well, what is it that the Left would like to participate in?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150831	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150835	First of all, there is no doubt that if we look at how we defend Western rights, freedoms and various other rights, democracy rights and human rights, then NATO is the backbone and they will remain the backbone of this. But there is a good way to work together between the EU and NATO. So, when the rapporteur asks me, I would like to say that it is, of course, the case that we should be able to participate in both. Because that is what is happening at the moment. Sometimes NATO abandons a task and asks the European Union whether they want to take it because they help each other. That's what it says in everything. This is what they have emphasised in the 2014 Wales Declaration: helping each other. You see each other as complementary, and you help each other. That is why it is, of course, also the case that the efforts we have made in Bosnia under NATO are fully worthy of recognition. We should also be in a situation where we could do the same in the EU area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150943	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504150946	But where is it concrete that the EU defence reserve prevents us from participating in international cooperation? My acquaintance is 14 soldiers, I think we're just now. has deployed in UN missions, and there are plenty of missions to which we say no. So, if Denmark has a desire to take part in peacekeeping and contribute to maintaining peace, why is it that the EU defence reserve prevents us from doing so? This prevents us from doing so within the EU, but it does not prevent Denmark from participating in peacekeeping missions around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151021	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151025	No, and we do that all the time. That is what we are discussing. Here there is just one reservation that makes it impossible for us to participate in the EU context, and that is illogical in this context. So I'll just say that as a line to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151036	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151043	The Union is stone dead, said a bourgeois Prime Minister once. It was not so, because there were forces down in Europe that wanted it to be different. This is also true in other areas. Today, the Italian Prime Minister, Mario Draghi, has said that he wants qualified majority voting in a wide range of areas, including defence, and qualified majority voting means that it is 15 out of 27 countries with 65%. of the population. It is, of course, healthy in many of the large countries and, of course, some small ones. What is the Left's position on majority voting, among other things? Defence? Is that something you're in favour of?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151126	That is not the point of saying 'yes' or 'no' to removing the defence reserve. That's the first thing. Secondly, throughout history we can find a great many European politicians who have said exactly the same thing as Mario Draghi at quite different times. This has never happened either, because you have to agree on these parts. If you want to make treaty changes, the 27 countries must agree. If it is the case that you want to have it on a veto and a qualified majority put on as a question, that is something you have to agree on. That is why it is a little, excuse me, sought question, because it is not something that has just arisen. It is something that has been there for a really, really long period, and there is always someone who speaks for it. This does not mean that Denmark should comply with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151224	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151227	In the past, unanimity has been removed, among other things. in the Treaty of Lisbon, so why should we not do it again? The Left will not guarantee that unanimity will be guaranteed here. If the Left sits in government and you're the only country that doesn't want it... everyone else says they want majority voting on, among other things. The defence will then stand firm and say: we do not want that? This has not been done in the past, among other things. in relation to the Treaty of Lisbon, which did not even come to a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151301	A lot of questions were asked here and I have 30 seconds to answer. What I just want to say is that the premise for the question is wrong, because if it is the case that we have to agree to treaty changes, we have to agree, and then we will always have an opportunity to discuss it here in the Folketing and ask the Danes if that is what is desired. There it is that we say that if it is on the defense and that is what we are discussing here we have to go out and ask the Danes again when it is a supranational cooperation. It's not anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151337	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151345	Thank you. When you talk about standing outside and taking responsibility, it's such fine words that don't say anything. As far as standing outside, I just want to ask whether there are not enough wars for everyone, as Peter Viggo Jakobsen said the other day in a debate. We are one of the countries in the world most often engaged in war missions in relation to our population. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with that. And then I would like to ask whether we have not been involved in more actions than we actually have the capacity to do. We've practically worn our soldiers down. At the moment, we can hear defence experts say that the defence is hot and that we have been far too out in relation to our capacity. That is one question. The second question is: What would it have changed in Ukraine if we had abolished or removed the defence reserve before 2013 or 2014? That is what the rapporteur mentioned as a landmark date over in Ukraine, and I also agree that it was a landmark date. But what would it have changed that we had no defence reserve? After all, we have been here in Ukraine anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151452	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151455	In fact, I think that the Danish defence is quite skilful, and when they participate, they often do so at a very high level. If it is the case that there is no capacity, I am also quite sure that the Danish defence will have it properly said so that we do not participate where it is not rational to participate. There are some different contexts that we can take part in, for example. NATO and the United Nations, and what we are saying here and are on this agenda, is that we should have the opportunity to participate in the European Union as well. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151536	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151539	Now I did not get an answer to that with Ukraine, but I would also like to ask a supplementary question. Have we not participated in the EU context? We are sitting at the table, we are taking part in a host of EU actions, I could spend more than 5 minutes mentioning all the places where we have been involved in EU actions. That's not a problem for us. However, I would like to ask an absolutely crucial question, namely whether the rapporteur and therefore the Left will be involved in writing into the law not only in the remarks but in the law that the people are guaranteed a new referendum if we give power to the European Union. If you want to, I believe in the Left. I don't believe it, just because there's a comment on this from the platform. We have seen so often in EU debates that many promises are made that are not kept.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151621	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151624	Finally, I can say that we are fully satisfied with the Minister's consideration of this issue. First of all, the European Union is carrying out some missions in which we may not participate, and if we abolish the reservation, we can simply say no to them. We can't even do that today, because we can't say yes or no. Therefore, there will probably also be some EU missions that we will say yes to, and the future will have to show that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151659	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151705	Thank you. In fact, I would just like to help both the rapporteur and Mr Gundelach. Mr Messerschmidt was a little on the way; there was a debate on intergovernmental cooperation and what to understand about it, as opposed to the supranational one. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it the case that Denmark can be forced to send Danish soldiers into military operations if we join the EU cooperation on defence and security by abolishing the reservation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151731	Thank you for that question. No, we can't be forced to be part of that. These are opportunities we have, and this is about intergovernmental cooperation, so it can therefore be said quite clearly that Denmark always has the opportunity to say yes or no to the tasks that may be ■ about missions, capabilities, structured cooperation, whatever it may be. We can say yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151754	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen? No, there are no further follow-up questions. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151803	This is because the Danish People's Party mentioned something about President Macron from France supposedly undermining NATO. Macron's from the Left's sister party. With regard to the second candidate, Marine Le Pen, from the Danish People's Party's Sister Party, can the rapporteur confirm that she has expressed a wish to withdraw France completely from NATO's military command?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151836	Yeah, I can do that. In fact, I myself have had the opportunity to attend the French elections and have heard on several occasions how there have been critical voices about precisely NATO and NATO membership and a little less critical voices about the European Union, but still critical.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151853	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504151907	Thank you. What is happening around Europe right now? If we look at our partners and neighbouring countries around the Baltic Sea, Sweden and Finland, with whom we normally have close cooperation around the military, then the war in Ukraine has been an abrupt awakening. In Sweden and Finland, after decades of freedom of alliance, NATO will join. That's new. In Germany, a few days after Putin's attack on Ukraine, Chancellor Scholz was out to end decades of fear of contact in German security and defence policy and fully joined the defence of Europe. This is a new security policy reality. We haven't taken Putin seriously, I think. We have heard him many times say that all the countries in Russia's so-called sphere of interest were not really entitled to self-determination in Putin's eyes, the right to choose with whom they would cooperate, with whom they would ally themselves. We have heard his thoughts that Europe must move towards Russia and that the West must collapse, and we have heard his threats after the war in Ukraine broke out. Not only against Ukraine and the countries that lie in Russia's so-called sphere of interest, such as Georgia and Moldova, but also against countries in Europe • our neighbours in Sweden, our neighbours in Finland, against what we stand for in European democracies. This war in Ukraine is not just a war on Ukrainian soil, but it is also a war against the European values that we share, as democracy, as human rights, as equality. These are all things that Putin, to put it in such a little popped Danish, thinks is a city in Russia. We are talking about a man who censors his own people, closes free media, poisons his opposition, and when he can't get rid of them, he puts them in jail. We are talking about a man who has opposed democracy in Russia and strangled it since he arrived. To think that he is not a threat to Europe right now, given the situation we are now in, and with the war, the bloodshed that is taking place in Ukraine while we are standing here today, is completely insane. It is a threat to Europe and not only to countries such as Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, Sweden, Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, countries that are afraid of what Putin can do against them. It is also a threat to what we stand for, and that is why we in Europe need to move closer together. We must move closer together in terms of our security and in terms of protecting and defending what we stand for. After all, this bill is about allowing Denmark to join the European cooperation on defence and security policy, fully and completely. It's about giving us the opportunity to help develop this cooperation. Over the past many years, researchers in some of the best institutions we have in Denmark, DIIS, Center for Military Studies, have said that European defence cooperation is developing rapidly right now, and in the future, very soon, it will be a problem for Denmark not to be able to participate. We have NATO as a security guarantee, that is absolutely right and it will remain that way for a very long time, but being involved in European defence cooperation and helping to develop it will mean that we can move closer together with our European allies and that we will be able to ensure that European interests are safeguarded on European soil. I do not know what is going on in the United States in the future, but the chance that a new American president is called Donald Trump or something worse is there, and the chance that he thinks what American presidents have always thought is great, namely that it is a bit awkward that Europe cannot take care of more of its own security itself and that the Americans must always come running when there are problems in our backyard. The chances of an American president continuing to think so are great. This also means that we will have to take it for good when the United States has so far announced clearly that we need to be better able to look after ourselves in Europe, that we need to be better able to look after our own interests, including military ones, including defence policy, and that in future we must be able to deal with more of the problems that arise in our backyards themselves. I'd be happy to take him at his word. Whether the President is Joe Biden, Donald Trump or perhaps in the future Hillary Clinton or Kamala Harris, they think the same thing: we have to start taking responsibility in Europe and can no longer be on a free ticket. Therefore, it makes sense to the SF that we join European defence cooperation and help to develop what can eventually become a stronger independent Europe in the field of security and defence policy, so that we do not put all our eggs in NATO's basket, in the American basket. I think that makes sense in the situation we are in now and it will increasingly make sense, because we also see unrest elsewhere than in Ukraine; we see it in Bosnia. The reservation of defence is something that we in the SF have stood for, and at that time we were afraid of some of the things that also appear in today's debate. We were concerned about the idea of an EU army over which we have no control and which could be deployed completely outside Danish influence to military missions in which we had no interest in participating. This idea of an EU monster and an EU army that arose in the context of the discussion on the Western European Union is stone dead. I can see that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt laughs, but may I remind him that it is true that although we have been afraid of this ghost since we invented the reservations, it has not arrived. There are probably some in Europe who think it might be interesting, but we do not think so in Denmark, and there is a very logical reason for this: it makes sense that countries have control over their own military. We like it best, and I think that is quite reasonable. And that is how most countries feel in the European Union too, thank God. No one wants to transfer competence and command to an institution such as the European Union in the end. That is why we also recommend a yes. The scare pictures we see painted in the press are not always a team. In fact, I would say that most often it is not something that is teamed up. I therefore hope that, in the long term, the Danish Parliament will be able to come together to use European defence cooperation constructively, even though we are currently disagreeing that we should enter into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504152835	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first it is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504152844	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to start by reminding the rapporteur that it is not so long ago that there has been a presidential election in France, and one can say that how Europe is going to develop and how France's development will be, perhaps also depends on whether it is a president named Macron or whether it is one called Le Pen, just as it may have meaning who is President of the United States. In fact, I have some doubts as to where the SF is in relation to this, because the rapporteur says that we must make ourselves more independent from NATO and that we must make ourselves more independent from the United States and that Europe must take care of its own interests. I understand that as if it were both about territorial defence and also about defending its interests abroad. But does this also mean that an EU army must be built? It is not because I want to paint up a scare picture; I am not standing here saying that there will be an EU army. I am just interested to hear what the SF's perspective is, because if what the rapporteur says is a believer, does that mean that some sort of EU army must be built if we are to defend territorial defence of Europe and also defend interests abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504152950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504152952	I did not hear myself use the word territorial defence, but let us take the discussion that Mr. Peder Hvelplund is leaving. Is it necessary to set up an EU army if Europe is to be better placed to look after itself and its borders? No. The idea of NATO, which the Enhedslisten is against, is unfortunately that an alliance brings its military capabilities together to ensure security and defence. There is no NATO army, there is only our own army, and we decide for ourselves what we use it for. And so it will be in European defence cooperation. This is not a necessity for an EU army, it is certainly not something we in the SF are interested in, nor do I hear any other parties in the Folketing be it. However, it is a question of giving us the opportunity to bring our capabilities together and use them in an EU coordination and perhaps with a broader aim than that which we see in NATO, which also has a look at humanitarian interventions, democracy development, institution building, as the European Union can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153102	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153105	Then I'd like to ask you another question. I would also like to thank you for your answer; it only presents some challenges in terms of whether it is within NATO or whether it is within the framework of the European Union that you want the military alliance. But here a very short time ago at the end of last year the Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals raised a proposal that there should be a two-thirds majority in the Folketing if military contributions were to be sent out into the world, precisely to avoid that it could be a very narrow majority which did so. Will the SF be willing to say that this is also a condition, that is, something we sign into the law, or that we will at least have a political agreement, that it is also true if we abolish the EU's defence reserve, namely that there will then be a two-thirds majority in favour of sending soldiers on military action.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153152	I was just about to say that if this were to apply only to the EU's military missions, it would be unambitious, because we have often jointly proposed that there should be a two-thirds majority for military missions at all. And we still believe that in the SF. Unfortunately, there has not been a majority for this, which has puzzled us at the past positions of the Social Democrats in this area, but we still believe that whether it is an EU mission or a NATO mission or any other mission, it should be a two-thirds majority who decided to send Denmark to war.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153224	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153228	Let us, however, agree on one thing: the European Union cannot defend Europe. Only NATO can do that. Only the Americans and the British and the other NATO countries can do that. Then I also noticed, and I am really concerned that the SF is in favour of abolishing the reservation, because European military cooperation must defend Europe. But what military cooperation has been used for, among other things, is: missions to Africa. Why does the SF, the Socialist People's Party think we should have even more military missions in Africa? Why does the SF think that Danish soldiers should be sent down to help France with their colonial wars in the old African colonies? Why do we think it is a good idea when we have NATO to defend ourselves? Why would wars of aggression rather than lay their eggs in NATO's basket?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153336	Nor do I believe that this is what the European Union wants. If you read the new approach to security and defence policy in the EU • the strategic compass • then there is today a need and a desire to focus on Europe's backyard and to use its strength not to wage desert wars, but to look after Europe and defend European values. I do not think that what will happen if Denmark joins European defence cooperation is that we will have a wealth of new missions in Africa. We have some in European defence cooperation today, which lies in Africa, but they have been difficult to agree on, among other things. Because it requires unanimity, and if Denmark is involved in this defence cooperation, we can of course help to ensure that you do not spend your energy on military missions and wars of aggression, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen called it in Africa, but for what makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153440	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153443	I think it's a little troubling. Apparently, SF thinks there won't be these missions, but it does. They are already there, and it is in European defence cooperation that you can enter other countries outside the European Union. So would it not be sensible for the SF to change its position and recommend a no? Because obviously you don't know exactly what you're saying yes to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153513	No, I cannot do that, because what is, after all, when you go into European defence cooperation is that it is voluntary what you want to participate in. It is whether you want to participate in military missions in Africa or whether you want to participate in other parts of European defence cooperation. It is also voluntary what you want to contribute. And last but not least, as I also tried to say to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, you get a right of veto that you can use to ensure that the EU's forces are not used in military missions where it does not make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153547	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153552	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech and also for looking a little forward in the future as regards what the world looks like in terms of security and international affairs. I would like to hear what the rapporteur's position on NATO is like and how it is seen here in terms of strengthened European cooperation with NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153614	SF is for NATO, and thank God for it in a situation like this. After all, we can see that the military threat to countries that are members of NATO is virtually not there, and that is a defence alliance that we must safeguard and which we must also strengthen. We believe that European defence cooperation can contribute to complementing and congratulating what is being done in NATO, and perhaps also to creating a division of labour which ensures that we can focus on what makes sense for the respective NATO and for the European Union. For example, we started by transferring some missions from NATO and from the UN to European defence cooperation in order to ensure that the forces could be used for something else, and I think that this kind of division of labour and complementing each other will continue and become stronger if we are involved in both.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153707	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153711	Thank you, and just in relation to the fact that the United States was mentioned and that we cannot expect that we can call Uncle Sam all the time to help us: How does SF view the role of the United States now? Has the United States stepped in with regard to European security, or do we really see that the United States has gradually pulled out over recent years?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153737	I think it is very clear that, although we are in the situation that we are seeing in Ukraine and in Europe right now, when, thankfully, the Americans have also come to the rescue with increased NATO preparedness, their wish remains that Europe should do more for itself, and we still want to withdraw from Europe in large parts of Congress and in the political American environment, and we must be aware of that. This is not something that will happen tomorrow, but in the long term. At least that's what I hear when I listen to the presidents.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153809	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153814	Thank you. The EU army is stone dead, said the SF rapporteur, and I understand that the SF now believes that more weapons will make the world more secure to live in. It's a new melody from SF, at least compared to the time I've known SF. However, the EU army is stone-dead and the rapporteur also says that the EU is currently developing militarily in a great hurry, and we do not know where it ends up. I've asked a lot of people where this ends, and most people say they don't know that. Then I have to look at: what does the European Union want? Yes, they want to follow France in their old colonies, in the majority of cases, with the actions they have been taking at the moment, and defend their interests there. That is what the European Union wanted. It may well be that they have written something else in some papers, but I have no guarantee of that. That is why it is a little important to know whether the SF, if the EU continues this line, will also think that it is a good idea for us to follow the EU down in North Africa? Or should we say stop to such actions as this? Mali and Wagner Group etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153930	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504153934	Well, I think it's worth noting that where Operation Barkhane has been kicked out of Mali, to put it bluntly on his ass and elbows, I apologize for being allowed to leave the EU mission, perhaps because there are fewer French imperialist interests involved in the way it is run. I cannot tell you which military missions we should be participating in if we enter European defence cooperation and in which we should not. It's kind of hard to relate to when we don't have the opportunity today. But such things as... Bosnia or Althea, which was, after all, a mission in which Denmark took part, but where we had to withdraw our troops because it was transferred to the European Union and we had a reservation, it could perhaps make sense with the unrest we see in Bosnia today, or if the need for a capacity-building institution-building mission in Ukraine arises in the future. I wonder if it was something that Denmark had an interest in participating in, including through the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154042	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154045	After all, Denmark has now been to Bosnia, Denmark has now been to Ukraine and has built up, and we have not had any restrictions on what we would like to participate in. That is what puzzles me, and that is why I ask: where does this end up? Which way should the European Union go? No one will answer that and I will not vote blindly in a referendum. For example: the EU is not subject to the same rules as NATO that we are following human rights and the UN rules on war and such things. It frightens me very much that we will then enter into a structure which is, in principle, deeply opposed to us, and therefore I do not understand what we are going to do there as long as we cannot be clear about where we are going and what principles are going to apply. Can the rapporteur not understand that doubt at all? Well, I remember...
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154133	Here you go. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154136	Yes, I can easily understand people who are in doubt about what to vote, and there has to be a place for that. However, I think it makes sense now that we join European defence cooperation at a time like this, because we need to move closer with our European allies. The rapporteur says that we have been in Bosnia, the European Union has been in Bosnia, and there was no limit to what we wanted to get involved in. Should I understand that the rapporteur does not think it would make sense in the future to help stabilise?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154211	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154216	Thank you. What makes me ask the question here is that we hear from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that it is to vote blindly when you vote yes. And then what I am thinking is that it is the opposite, and I would like the rapporteur to confirm that. That is the opposite, because when you vote 'no', you do not know exactly what you are not part of. This is, of course, a completely blind way of going about this issue, rather than providing information and responding to the facts and then voting yes. For then Denmark will be given the opportunity to participate in what we would like to participate in. Can the rapporteur confirm this view?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154300	Anne Valentina Berthelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154303	Yes, and I would also like to add that if you vote 'yes' and you enter European defence cooperation, you will also have better control over how it develops, not only because you then have influence that we do not have today, but also because we have a right of veto which we have disclaimed for in mysterious reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154323	There is no other comment. That is why I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. In agreement with the other parties, we have done so that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party now has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504154344	Thank you, President, and thank you to both the Radicals, Conservatives and the Enhedslisten for allowing me to go to the platform now. I believe that one of the expressions that will probably be noticed from today's debate, which was mentioned by the SF rapporteur, is that the EU army is stone dead, since it is an expression that has some echo over it with regard to the EU debate. After all, it was Poul Schlüter who said that the Union was stone dead, after which seven years passed, and vupti, then the Treaty on European Union came into force. The Treaty we are discussing today, that is to say the first provision, Article 1: the creation of the Union. In other words, what the former Danish Prime Minister declared to be absolutely stone dead is today more than vivid. This may in fact say a little about the discussion we have, namely that one should be very, very careful in believing in the so-called guarantees that parties who want us to give more power to the European Union issue. In particular, I think that Mr. Kim Valentin's observations on the relationship between the intergovernmental and supranational authorities call for a separate interest. In other words, when one understands that it is so essential for the yes-party to explain that this is quite harmless, because it is intergovernmental, while one is not in a position at all to explain what the difference between the intergovernmental and the supranational is, then it calls for interest. It is certainly not something that actually calls for the impression that one should be impressed by the arguments put forward. Similarly, I think that we have heard from other rapporteurs, both here and elsewhere in the debate, that in this way we are more concerned about getting rid of what should not happen than explaining what the argument for Denmark to be more involved in the European Union is. Yes, I understand that it is about Trump becoming President of the United States again and if he does not want to defend European interests, then it would be nice to have someone else. Why don't we try looking at that argument again? If Trump becomes president of the United States again, would it be nice to have someone else? No, wouldn't it really be nice to have committed the Americans even stronger under NATO so that it becomes even more difficult for them to change strategy? Instead of saying that increased European defence must take place in the European Union, it could be said that we are doing it within NATO; we are creating an independent European dimension within NATO. It is not the case that the NATO Treaty obliges every NATO country to be involved in all actions. I assume that even those parties which do not know the difference between the intergovernmental and the supranational are well aware that, within the NATO Treaty, of course, there are all the possibilities for NATO operations where some countries say they are in and others say they are not in. If we in Europe want to go back to Bosnia, there is nothing to prevent us from doing so under the NATO umbrella without the participation of the Americans, but it would be a very clever thing to do under NATO, where the Americans are then in relation to intelligence, in relation to all the things, diplomatic and political, and so on, that the European Union is not able to do, and that the European Union is, at best, about to build up. That is why it is a bad idea to build an actual EU military, and that is not just what we in the Danish People's Party say. The Pentagon, the US Department of Defense, was out a few days ago to say that of course it will challenge NATO militarily and economically if the EU pursues its own military ambitions. Well, that's self-evident, isn't it? We, at least the vast majority in here, have decided that we would like to use the 2%. of bnp, as we must, and as we have promised, on our defense. But it goes without saying that if we start spending part of it on an EU defence where France is playing the piano, then NATO will be smaller. What, then, is the signal to send to the Americans that we are not giving priority to NATO? And what about the British, by the way? They kind of smelled the smoke in the bakery and left the sinking ship. Then there has been a bizarre discussion about whether the EU can like come and intervene in the Danish defence and against the will of the Danish Parliament force Denmark into missions. No, of course the European Union cannot. That would require a change in the constitution. That's not the danger at all. The danger here is, of course, that those parties that love the European Union so much that for 40 years they have said wrong things about what the European Union would develop into, even in this area, will print yes every time the European Union asks for it. Well, that's the problem, and that's where mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, the Foreign Minister and all the other rapporteurs here today have a huge problem of explanation. Because the Union wasn't stone-dead. It's completely alive today. There are maternity rules in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs guaranteed that this was not an area in which we had delegated powers to the European Union. Today, this is an area in which the European Union has powers. The area of aliens was an area in which the EU parties said: we have not given the EU powers; we have a legal reservation. Today, the European Union has a considerable influence on our foreign policy. There is also one area that may speak a little more to the left: the area of pay. I have multiple quotes from both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister and all sorts of other ministers that the EU has no powers on pay policy. Today, the European Union has adopted a minimum wage directive which regulates wage policy. There is also the labour market area. We have plenty of examples of quotes back in the time when they said: The nuts we break ourselves. Isn't that right? That's how the big parole was. Today we have both the Vaxholm judgment and all sorts of other decisions that place obstacles in the Danish model. The area of area by area has, of course, shown that the Union is far from dead. And area by area, the parties who today say to the Danes that they can vote quite calmly to dismantle the defence reserve, because it is intergovernmental and we have the right of veto, either to lie or at least to be wrong. So who really should be trusted here? Should we trust that a 'yes' will lead to nothing more than what the Treaty says, and nothing more than what the parties that have been notoriously wrong about the nature of EU cooperation over the past 40 years say? Or perhaps you should be a little snuffy and say: Who is Putin afraid of? If the military ambitions of the European Union, where the rapporteur is right to say that this is something that was written back in 1993 in the Maastricht Treaty, were such that they could actually defend us, why did Putin legitimize entering Crimea? Why, then, did Germany legitimize our dependence on Russian gas? Well, that doesn't make any sense at all. Whether you like it or not, the defence of Denmark and Europe is simply inextricably linked to the alliance that ties us to the British and Americans and, of course, to several other countries. It is also very nice to have the Norwegians with them, after all, they have the Secretary-General in NATO. That's why this is basically about what direction you want for Denmark. Will the path that I would like to see as Putin's preferred path be that the European Union should only take up the military ambition, because NATO and thus the Americans are being pushed away, or do we want to send a signal to the United States, to the world, especially to Brussels, to the European Union, that we do not want a common defence of the European Union, we do not want an army of the European Union? We know that the Union, which today can be stone-death, can be alive in five years' time, and that is why we are holding to our defence reserve. This is what we in the Danish People's Party recommend. And even if we love referendums in this way, and that is why we can be tempted to vote in favour of L 194, which simply allows us to hold a referendum, the comments do well to prevent us from doing so, because it is a big sauce of how fantastic everything will be if we do away with the reservation. Then I have to say that there is also something striking about why we are actually holding referendums in Denmark only when you have the opportunity to choose between the status quo or more EU. Could you not, hopefully after 1 June for the third time, when it has been demonstrated that the Danes do not want any more EU, sit down and make a national compromise in which, next time we vote, we will have the opportunity to choose between the status quo or less EU? It could, for example, be done. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the social protocol for which the Foreign Minister spoke so warmly when he was not Foreign Minister, but a Member of the European Parliament. Well, that was another area where Denmark suddenly did not get what we wanted. What will the future EU bring? In the best of all worlds, we don't know. Mario Draghi was out this morning, after all, he is Prime Minister of Italy and say that it could be a good idea with majority decisions in the field of foreign affairs. The same sound is heard from the large-scale conference on the future of Europe, which has just concluded that the right of veto is desirable. You would also like to have something that you call joined-armed forces. Now you can't speak English on the platform. I'll refrain from that, but smarter people could perhaps translate into Danish, what that means. I think that means an EU army. Basically, when I read Article 42 of the EU Treaty, that is to say, just the first of the provisions that would result from the dismantling of the defence reserve, one really does not need much imagination to imagine what is going to happen. The common security and defence policy shall include the progressive framing of a common EU defence policy. It will lead to a common defence. Of course, you can imagine some kind of defense that doesn't have an army. You can also imagine someone who doesn't have an air force or a navy or a cyber part etc., you can probably do that, it just can't be very effective. That is why it has to be said that now that the Treaty has decided to have a common defence of the European Union, it is likely that there will also be an EU army. That is why we are voting 'no'. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155344	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. The first one I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155353	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I had first written some questions, but there were so many questions in that speech that I finally wondered whether we should sit and answer questions, but there was just one thing. The first question I would like to ask is, as the rapporteur said, that the European Union has helped legitimise Russia's invasion of Crimea, and I would like that to be clarified. What has the EU done here to legitimise an invasion?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155418	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155421	Absolutely nothing. That's the whole point. If Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll and the other EU parties say that the European Union must defend us against Putin, then I say that the European Union is not in a position to do so. You can see that back in 2014, and you can see it today. In other words, it is not the European Union that, in all its power and power, constitutes anything that Putin is afraid of, it is NATO. It is only because we have a NATO alliance that is now forming this flank at the western part of Ukraine with Canadian, British, American troops, alongside European, of course, that Putin shakes his hand. It is not because of an EU army. And you've had the opportunity to build this since 1993, but it hasn't happened. Why on earth should we then risk the only thing that Putin fears today, namely NATO, in favour of something that is at best just weak and indifferent, in the worst case will compromise the Danish defence and thus the security of the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155522	You can turn it around and say: although we had NATO, Putin did not respect it. That is why it is also important for us to be more united in Europe. But I would like to ask the rapporteur: how will the rapporteur ensure Denmark, including from cross-border threats to cybers? How can we strengthen the Baltic Sea alone? How much do we have to put on the defence budget if we are also to have submarines? How are we going to establish strong cooperation with the Baltic countries, Sweden and Finland if we are not involved in European cooperation but stand alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155555	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155559	But the whole point is that we are not alone. On the contrary, we are in a far, far stronger military alliance than that which is the European Union. Sweden and Finland have also made it quite clear by their actions and reports lately that they do not feel safe in EU defence either. They want to join NATO because they know that this is where they are anchored together with much stronger allies, especially of course on the military, but also on what the rapporteur mentions with intelligence and so on. In other words, there are the Americans second to none and especially in relation to EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155628	Thank you. I would just like to say to the rapporteurs who have come to the next point that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has come up a little bit. That's why we're here right now. So it will be just a while before we come to the next item on the agenda. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155645	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. There were just a few inaccuracies I wanted to talk about. The contrast between the European Union and NATO is not there, and I would just like to put it down so that we are not allowed to tell a story that either we have the European Union or we have NATO. That's totally wrong. Several places have just been said that the European Union and NATO are helping each other. They want to help each other, they point at each other to help each other. So no matter how many times it's said, it's not true. Then there's something about Le Pen, Trump, Morten Messerschmidt. Now there's a smile. I can understand that. But both Trump and Le Pen say that they really want to distance themselves from NATO, and now I am here to hear that Morten Messerschmidt would like to speak up to NATO. Can we believe that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155751	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155755	What do I have to do with Trump and Le Pen? I've never met any of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155759	Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155804	It is said that this is more power for the European Union, but it is not. It is more power for Denmark, because what is actually the case is that today we are outside and cannot decide anything. Now we say we want to go in, and then we can take a stand on yes or no whether we want to be part of what the others want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155834	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155837	After all, it works in the sense that when the European Union sets itself up for a military operation, an EU defence command will be set up, which will then take control of the troops that the countries are sending in. I mean, it in itself is very much like what NATO is doing right now. The Danish Parliament has supported the fact that several parts of the Danish defence can contribute to the NATO operation in Ukraine, and there is then a NATO command which decides within the mandate to which the Danish troops are going. And that is also the power that the European Union will have; so that the European Union will be able to send the contributions that we then send around wherever it wants within the mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155911	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504155921	Thank you. Sir. In his speech Morten Messerschmidt talks about a couple of interesting, different views and concepts, and there are a few questions hanging in the air, and at least one of them I would like to answer, namely the excellent question Morten Messerschmidt asks: Who and what is Putin afraid of? It is actually a very good question, and the truth is that what President Putin is afraid of is first and foremost free press and free elections, free democracy and that is why we need to stand together. Another very sensible point of view, which actually came from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in the speech, this was the question that it is quite good to have the Norwegians with us. But let us do a thought experiment: if there is a joint EU mission, which Denmark really seems to make good sense, which Norway actually seems to make sense and which our Swedish and German neighbours might think makes sense, who is it that cannot participate? Is it the Norwegian Empire that can say yes or no, or is it the Danish Parliament that can say yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160024	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160027	So, in relation to the free press, I think we are in complete agreement, and that is also why it is good that the European Union has dropped its crazy proposal to shut down critical press from Russia, among other things. Because there was authority for it and things like that. But the central question Benny Engelbrecht raises here in relation to Norway is just as good. What I have to do, sir. Benny Engelbrecht points out that Norway is not a member of the EU, and that is what makes the significant difference between Norway and Denmark. Because if we abolish our reservations, we will be fully involved in the treaties that we are now making reservations about Article 26 and then Articles 42 to 46. Norway is not obliged to do so. And that means that no matter what, the Norwegians will have the privilege when EU law develops that they will be outside. It is a privilege I envy the Norwegians in many ways, but that is the central difference. And that is why it is wiser for Denmark to be outside, because we are part of the European Union, whereas everything that comes from the European Union, because the Norwegians are purely third-country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160123	Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160125	No, it is in fact the case that Norway is closer to the European Community, despite the fact that they are not a member of the European Union, since it is the elected democrats in the Norwegian Empire who can say yes or no to allowing Norwegian soldiers to take part in joint missions, whereas the Danish Parliament does not have that option. In fact, that is what we have to decide first and foremost in the referendum, that is to say: should it be a power that lies with the Danish Parliament, more power for the Folketing, less for the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160200	So let me try to explain it a little more concretely. In other words, if Denmark abolishes the reservation, we are in the Treaty and in all the treaties that follow. We cannot get the reservation back, and it is not the case that we can call down to the European Union and say: hey, we have regretted, now we will not be in it anymore. If, on the other hand, the Norwegians say that they want to do some EU action because it is purely bilateral, then they can do it. Then they're in there, and then it ends. If the European Union then, for example, abolish the right of veto or do other crazy things, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's party tends to support, so it does not bind Norway, but it binds Denmark, because once the reservation is gone, we can never get it back.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160235	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is the rapporteur of the Radicals. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160240	Thank you. I would really like to hear Mr. Morten Messerschmidt: When the war in Ukraine ends at some point and there will be a need to continue to secure peace in Ukraine, who does he imagine should do so? Thinks sir. Morten Messerschmidt that it will be NATO that will take on that task? Does he think that it will be the United Nations where Russia is, I suppose, a member of the Security Council? Will it be the European Union? Or would it be another constellation of countries and, if so, what?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160312	I think it is quite important that the peacekeeping force, or whatever to call it, should become an alliance of countries where you do not have, what can be said, too many emotions in the squeeze. It is quite clear that it cannot be NATO, so there has been quite a tough confrontation. It is also quite clear that it would be very, very difficult for the EU to face up to the current trade policy. I think it should be a multinational alliance of different countries where Russia, of course, should not approve it, but where it should be carefully selected so that no one sees it as a provocation. So I think this is a really, really important issue that Mrs Sophie Callesen raises. At any rate, I think it must be absolutely clear that it cannot be either the European Union or NATO. I do not really know whether the prerogatives of the Security Council are so clear that they can veto everything, but I think it would be appropriate to move towards the United Nations. But if that is not possible, I think it should be such an alliance of voluntary or carefully selected countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160412	Here you go, Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160414	Thank you for your answer, although I do not really think I was given an answer as to what carefully selected countries it should be. I got an answer about who it wasn't supposed to be. And I do not agree at all that the European Union will not be able to undertake that task. But when I ask, it is because last week I was in a debate with Mr. Morten Messersschmidt at Roskilde Cathedral School, where I heard that it was among other things. was to be Russia and China, who were to be part of the peacekeeping mission. But perhaps it is the case that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has changed his mind?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160439	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160440	I believe that what I intended to say there was that it should be some that Russia does not feel provoked by China too. If I've told them to participate directly, it's been a statement. And so, it is a little much to expect that one can stand here and say exactly which countries should participate at some given time in such a peacekeeping mission, when it is something that has a strong impact on our security, but of course also potentially can lead to something escalating in relation to other countries that Putin might have some wild idea of intervening in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160515	Thank you. And then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160521	Well, it's touching to hear the care that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party shows towards Russia; one should be careful not to provoke them. After all, these are the same thoughts that his former party colleague Marie Krarup has advocated. The other day Mr. Morten Messerschmidt undressed, taken with his fingers in the box, if I may say so, by DR's Detector. The claim that there is an EU army on the way that can command Danish soldiers, command them to a mission, without the Danish Parliament having said yes, has been taken out of thin air and has no support in anything but Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's vivid imagination. And it's a decoy, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt isn't so excited about it. In an article in Altingen, he asks: "Is an idiot something to become of reading journalism or is it a requirement already when attending journalism school? Now the journalist hadn't written the article out of the blue, and that's why I have to ask if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes that Frederik Waage, professor of constitutional law, Anne Ingemann Johansen, PhD in European security, Henrik Larsen, professor of international politics, Jørgen Albæk Jensen, professor of emeritus specialising in state law, and Sune Klinge, assistant professor at the University of Copenhagen specialising in EU constitutional law, are also idiots.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160637	Then you have to stop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160642	No, what I find interesting is that there is nothing that the researchers or the experts say, which I also do not entirely agree with. What is strange about this article and this funny symbiosis between DR and the EU parties is that you are not trying to understand what is actually being said. So, I have made it very clear that there is a limit to the consent which the Folketing can give in accordance with § 19 (1). 2, in relation to when you get into a real transfer of powers, because then you're in section 20. I spent 1 hour and 20 minutes explaining the reporter on DR, and yet you end up concluding something. I took the trouble to call Frederik Waage and inform Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says we're actually looking at things the same way. So it's not Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen or Frederik Waage, I do not think there are idiots or at least not the latter, but the journalist, who apparently did not want to try to understand what the message is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160737	Jan E. Jørgensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160739	Thank you. Anyway, the five experts have been directly confronted with quotes from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that is, directly, and relates to them. And as for that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt claims that you can create a standing army in the European Union to which Denmark is sending and which is permanently stationed in Brussels, and that there is an EU command which has a mandate to do what they want and does what they want, so that in the long term you can imagine that is the answer: you cannot imagine that unless you have a very lively imagination, because that requires a change in the Treaty. - Sir... Morten Messerschmidt confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160809	Now I think Dr. Jur. Jan E. Jørgensen is swirling around a bit, because what we are talking about in that interview is not about treaty changes. It is about what can be done within the powers of the Constitution, i.e. how much the Folketing can send Danish troops to within the 19th paragraph. 2. And what might have had to be done to implement what is already in the Treaty on European Union defence is something else. What this is all about is about sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is willing, for example. to vote in favour of a standing mandate for Denmark to contribute to peacekeeping missions in Africa or something like that. Can this be done within the framework of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160845	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bjerre from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160850	Thank you. I would also like to ask you about this debate, which is about an EU army, this myth about an EU army. I understand, sir. Morten Messerschmidt has said that it is believed that in the long term there will be an EU army in which Denmark will send standing forces to Brussels, forces being deployed to Brussels, despite experts saying that such a general power cannot be given at all. So it's a myth. Then I'd like to hear sir. Morten Messerschmidt, if it is not true that such an EU army cannot be done at all according to the Treaty of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160924	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160926	No, I'm having a really hard time imagining it. When the Treaty of Lisbon specifically says that you want to do an EU defence, in other words a genuine EU defence, it is stated in Article 42 (1). 2, in the EU Treaty, and this is at the top of page 46 I find it very difficult to imagine that it should not also contain an EU army. I can ask Mrs Bjerre back: can you have a defence without an army?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160956	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504160957	I think sir... Morten Messerschmidt will have to read on in the articles in that case, because if you read on to Article 42 paragraph (a) of the Rules of Procedure, you will have to read on to Article 42 paragraph (b) of the Rules of Procedure. 3, it is actually very clear that it is the Member States that must provide military capacity. So the military capabilities, the Member States, are not the EU's, nor can it become the EU's under the Treaty. It also follows from Article 4 (1). 2 national security is the sole responsibility of each Member State.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161027	The fact that Denmark, Sweden, Germany etc. contributing to an EU defence, doing so will still be an EU army. It is also Denmark that sends a judge to the European Court of Justice, and he is then an EU judge. It is Denmark that sends MEPs to the European Parliament, and it is then parliamentarians of the European Union. So what is it that Mrs Marie Bjerre does not quite understand about this treaty here? Can we not call it the European Union when it is the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161054	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161056	Well, that's an interesting exchange of words. I'd like to grab some of the other stuff, like Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt mentioned this. Sir. Kim Valentin also touched on the issue, namely the false contradiction, which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt sets up between NATO and the EU. I simply do not understand how, with the background that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has, can make the false contrast, especially in view of the fact that NATO's Secretary-General, Stoltenberg, has repeatedly stressed that the EU and NATO are two sides of the same coin. Is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt agrees with Stoltenberg's statements about cooperation between the EU and NATO, that is that it is not a question of either-or, but rather both- and?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161154	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161155	I think it is simply another Stoltenberg, Mrs Ulla Tørnæ's meetings than I do. Among other things: last September, Stoltenberg was very clear when he said that if you build an EU defence with your own defence command, it will, of course, share NATO, then it will share the West. And that's what I'm worried about. Moreover, it is also a concern which the Pentagon was out to air on the second day, when those, I think, were in an article in the Everything, it was reproduced, make it very clear that if you build an EU military unit, it will of course happen at the expense of NATO. When you have Emmanuel Macron, to take Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's preferred European head of state, who directly points to the Americans as a future contradiction, a future enemy of the EU army, whom he wants very articulately, has to be said again that there is a contradiction. I therefore wish and hope that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs will be right, but there is a lot to be said for this not to happen, and that is also why it is wisest to hold on to the reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161251	Ulla Tørnæs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161253	Now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt again a false premise and says that if you build up this common EU army. But that is not what this is all about, and that is why Stoltenberg is dealing precisely with what is real: the EU and NATO complement each other out there when it comes to the need for missions. So how can Mr. Morten Messerschmidt holds onto the false myth when it is punctured by Stoltenberg, who is Secretary-General of NATO. The President of the United States points out exactly the same thing: there is no contradiction between the European Union and NATO here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161339	Something does not become false because Mrs Ulla Tørnæs attaches the adjective to it. Why has Stoltenberg said that it will share the West, that it will share NATO if the EU builds its own military command structure? Why would he say that? He does, of course, because that is what is on the drawing board, that is what countries really want. When Emmanuel Macron says very explicitly that he wants an EU army, a European army, when Merkel says so, when the Commission says so, and so on, that is something that calls for concern, and that is also true of Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161416	Then there are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank Morten Messersschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Then we go back to the normal series of speeches, and I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161432	Thank you. The world is breaking up. The tectonic plates in Europe are moving on. There is war in Europe. Our values are at stake. That is why it is now that we must all ask ourselves in Europe, and we must ask ourselves in Denmark: what can we do and what can we contribute?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161508	There's a lot of unrest in the Chamber, and it's a little confusing up here. Can we have you guys pull out in the chambers, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161514	Thank you. I will continue where I left off; at least I will try to do so. The question we have to ask ourselves now in Denmark is: What can we contribute and what opportunities do we have to protect Danish interests? Should we, when the world changes, insist that we do not change our position, that we continue to cancel in advance? I think it is a pity, and it does not make much sense to hold on to a defence reserve either. Denmark must also take responsibility for both peace in Europe, but also for our values and democracy and for the rule of law. And yes, Denmark can also take responsibility today, but we are not fully involved in European cooperation on security and defence. And, of course, we must continue to be part of other cooperation, for example. and to a very great extent NATO and also the United Nations in order to honour our commitments there. It's not either-or, it's both-and. However, there is no doubt that in the future, the very near future, the European Union will take very large and decisive decisions which will also have an impact on Denmark, whether we choose to join or not. That is why, of course, we believe that we should also have the opportunity to influence them in particular and to share in shouldering our responsibilities and having the opportunity to participate. Denmark will be able to make a difference in that cooperation, both between the civilian and the military. The fact that we as a small country can influence the big ones is, in fact, quite generally the benefit of rule-based international cooperation, but of course it requires that we be without reservation, because the time has come to call for something else; it calls for unity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161726	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161730	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Of course, Denmark must contribute to international cooperation, and we can do so to a large extent, and we can also participate in the civil parts of cooperation in the context of the European Union. What I would like to ask the radical rapporteur is what kind of missions the EU defence reserve is preventing us from taking part in, in which the Radicals would like us to participate. Is it a mission in Mali, is it in Central Africa, is it in Mozambique, or is it in the training of the Libyan coastguard, which we know is carrying out their duties in a way which is at least contrary to human rights and which has quite considerable consequences? What are some concrete actions that the Radicals would like us to take part in and in which the EU's defence reserve prevents us from taking part?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161826	Here you go, Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161827	Thank you. I'd like to answer that. That's one of them. interventions against piracy and cybersecurity cooperation, and there are also examples of missions where Denmark has wanted to participate and has made some leaps in the way of participation, and where we have participated in the civilian parts, but when it then happened to be a military mission, for example. As in Bosnia, the Danish forces had to go home. I would have liked them to stay. When the war ends in Ukraine and there comes an EU mission, what I think is going to do, because I think it will be the European Union that will lift that responsibility. Morten Messerschmidt before the meeting, I also want Denmark to be able to participate. Because I believe that Danish soldiers will be able to contribute something very special there, precisely to work in the intersection between the civilian and the military, where it is both about ending a war, but also about building a peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161917	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161919	After all, Denmark can also participate in a cooperation on cybersecurity with the defence reserve, because a large part of it takes place under civilian auspices. If we take the other examples, for example. The fight against piracy, it is not the European Union or the defence reserve that has stood in the way. If Denmark has wanted to participate, we have been able to do so in the second framework, and we have done so in the past in relation to the Gulf of Aden. So Denmark can participate. But when, for example, it does. As far as Bosnia is concerned, the Enhedslisten has previously raised questions as to whether the Danish Government would not participate, for example. mine clearance operations, but it has been said that you have no interest in them. It has not, of course, been because of the EU defence clause that it has been the political will that has stood in the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504161958	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162003	The rapporteur actually said so himself: yes, we can take part in the second framework. However, we have cut ourselves off from being able to participate in the European Union, and it is incomprehensible to me that we should not be able to contribute here. And as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is my expectation and I think that is quite clear to most people that right now the European Union is making some very important decisions in this area, and that is why there will also be several situations in which we will be able to choose both the direction in which we will draw it and whether we ourselves want to take part in the concrete decisions and in the missions that we decide to carry out, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162041	Thank you for that, and I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162045	I would like to hear the rapporteur of the Radicals, if it is not true that we are probably the country in the world that has participated in the most military actions around the world in relation to our population and that we have actually had many more opportunities, something we could have taken part in if we wanted to. We have actually had a wealth of wars or, as Peter Viggo Jakobsen said, there are enough wars for everyone, also for the radicals and the SFs who are eager for us to go to war.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162116	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162117	Yes, it is true that Denmark has played a role, an active role, also militarily. Some of this has been voted in favour in the Radical Left, something we have voted against, and so it will be if we fully join the European Union in the area of defence and security. We can choose to participate in some parts, and we can choose not to participate in other parts. So there is no coercion and there are no wars that we are being forced into, but right now we are cutting off the opportunity to participate in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162142	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162144	Now we have only heard of a theoretical possibility in Bosnia. This is the only example one can come up with where Denmark withdrew when NATO withdrew, and there was a tiny EU force that was symbolically there. That is absolutely right. Another issue that I have thought about is every time we mention preventive work, i.e. conflict resolution work, on which we spend virtually no money in Denmark, apart from development aid, of course, far away, where people are poor. Why isn't that an option? Why is the UN so demeaned as it is by virtually all parties, and why is it only weapons that can solve these problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162226	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162229	I do not believe that radical Left has ever been heard condemning UN cooperation. Nor do I believe that radical Left speeches have been heard against preventive action or against increased development aid. So it's not a picture I recognize. This isn't a either or. We still want to be a strong member of the United Nations, we want more development aid and we want more preventive cooperation, also under the auspices of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162255	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162258	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for an excellent rapporteur's speech. I would like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to make a few comments. Now Morten Messerschmidt has left the Chamber, and I do not know whether it is because he does not want any more debate, but in any case one of the things that came out during Morten Messerschmidt's speech was that there is a contradiction between the European Union and NATO. I certainly do not think there is, on the contrary. They are complementary, as everyone says, so you help each other with all the bets that are. Does the Radical Left agree with those comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162341	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162342	Yes, I agree with that, and I am, because we will see that the European Union and Europe will need to have greater responsibility for our own neighbourhoods. It would congratulate the fact that we then have defence cooperation, territorial defence, in NATO, which is quite different. That is why it is not a question of copying or duplicating the efforts we have in NATO. We must have the opportunity to keep track of our own backyard, and we must have the opportunity to defend our values and our rule of law in Europe and in the vicinity of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162414	Thank you. There is no wish for the second brief comment, so there are no further brief comments to the Radical Left rapporteur. Thank you. Then we should welcome Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504162426	Thank you for that, President. Today, we are dealing urgently with a government proposal to abolish the EU defence reserve. One may well wonder a little why, in the current situation, we need to spend time and effort on this referendum, and in particular why it is a legislative proposal that needs to be rushed through, so that there is limited time both to be able to ask questions and at all for the whole legislative process, because right now we are in a situation where there is war in Europe. The Ukrainians are fighting right now for their lives and their freedom in a devastating war. They must have all the support we can give them at all. Therefore, the debate in this Chamber today should be about how best to help Ukrainians. How do we get, for example? closed to Putin's gas taps and stopped the funding of his brutal in war... something we should have done several years ago? Why are Danish ports still open to Russian ships? Instead, we must now discuss Denmark's defence reserve, a defence reserve which is important, but which has no significance whatsoever for the current crisis in Ukraine. I do not understand the priority given by the five 'yes' parties to the referendum. However, now that referendums have been held, the Enhedslisten is of course dealing with this because we believe it is absolutely crucial that we retain the EU's defence reserve. I think it is important to start by stating what we are not voting on on 1 June. Because listening to the speakers from both the Social Democrats and the Left and the other yes parties, one can quickly get the idea that we are voting on some form of common defence of Europe, that without the defence reserve we will be better protected against Putin and others, and that therefore, for the sake of Denmark's security, we should vote yes. The story is appealing. It just has one problem: it's not real; it's fantasy and wishful thinking; it's a fatamorgana. The EU's military cooperation has nothing to do with territorial defence. Yes, false marketing takes place when they try to pretend that the European Union is vital to safety. And if you don't believe what Enhedslisten is saying here from Parliament's platform, you can listen to what Associate Professor at the Royal Danish Defence College, Peter Viggo Jacobsen, recently said to the press: "The EU doesn't play a role when it comes to the military territorial defence of Denmark. Denmark's defence is handled by NATO. Therefore, it is not true when Danish politicians claim that the defence reserve must be abolished for the sake of Denmark's territorial defence. If you do not believe what Peter Viggo Jacobsen says, then you can listen to what the Danish Institute for International Studies has concluded: "The reservation of defence has not had an impact on Denmark's territorial security, which continues to be provided by and anchored in NATO cooperation. But if the EU's military cooperation is not about a common defence, what is it about? It is primarily about military actions in the world, mainly in Africa or in the waters around the African continent and often in former French colonies. These are military missions in which several people have drawn a trail of controversy. Let us take just a few examples: there is the EU military mission in Mali, where the EU has been responsible for shooting the country's government troops, troops who have subsequently committed numerous attacks on the civilian population and who have reportedly killed more civilians than they have killed terrorists. Then there is the European Union's mission in the Mediterranean, which includes: was intended to train the Libyan coastal authority to keep refugees out of Europe and return them to detention centres in Libya, where rape and abuse are everyday. Or we can take the EU mission in the Central African Republic, where a battalion of EU-trained soldiers is now under the control of the Wagner Group, in other words Russian mercenaries, who commit bestialous attacks and killing civilians. Is it the kind of military EU missions in which the ja parties believe it will benefit Denmark's security that we are participating in? The answer is fluttering in the wind. In the Enhedslisten, we do not believe that more offensive military interventions are needed. Here scares the traces of the failed war effort in among others. Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. But, of course, we need to help out in the world. The question is just where and how we will prioritise our powers. Here, in the Enhedslisten, we believe that Denmark, rather than contributing to the EU's military missions, should give much more priority to engaging us in the UN peacekeeping work. It is simply embarrassing that Denmark at present. Only 14 soldiers have deployed for UN missions. It is embarrassing that we are in a 90th place worldwide as a contributor to UN missions. When we discuss the EU defence reserve, we must remember that these are the reservations of the people. It is a guarantee that a narrow majority in the Folketing will not be able to surrender more sovereignty to the European Union in the military field without first involving the people through a referendum. The guarantee now wants a majority in the Folketing to abolish. It's Enhedslisten against that. In fact, it is also unclear what we are saying 'yes' to. The military dimension of the European Union is currently being rapidly built, and no one knows what it will develop into. At the same time, the government cannot answer which EU military missions Denmark will join if we abolish the EU defence reserve. Nor can you say what it will cost the Treasury. To put it mildly, it is not reassuring. In the Enhedslist, therefore, our position is clear: we recommend that we vote against abolishing the EU defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163052	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the Radical Left rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163101	Well, I can't help commenting first on that with what it's gonna cost the Treasury. I also believe that many of us do not quite know what it will cost the Treasury if we are to finance the policy of Enhedslisten in other areas. But what I really want to ask is in relation to a comment on the fact that Enhedslisten would like it to be about everything else; it could be good if we could discuss something else. However, none of us here has said that it is a question of territorial defence. So I would like to start by asking: where do the rapporteurs get this idea, because were any of us from the other parties who were on the platform and who mentioned that this is about territorial defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163137	Sir. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163138	I would like to start by saying that if you are interested in how Enhedslisten's proposals are to be financed, you can read them with great benefit, because they are always financed and we always point to where the funding should come from. When the debate on territorial defence is raised, it is of course because the argument in the debate in this Chamber, but also in the debate, is raised that this is about defending Western democratic values. We have to defend ourselves against Putin. I believe, moreover, that the SF rapporteur said that we should defend Europe's borders. It is possible that this is not about territorial defence. It's just hard for me to understand it any other way. This is an interesting discussion, and we can easily take it in relation to the consequences it will have. But the key to me and the decentralization of the Enhedslisten is, of course, that we are discussing what this is getting of concrete importance now and here. It is, of course, the question that if we abolish the defence reserve, what kind of missions do we want to join? What are we going to do in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163250	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163253	I fully agree with the latter. And I'm going to ask the same question I asked Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. When the war ends in Ukraine, who is Enhedslisten supposed to assume responsibility for maintaining peace? Because we fully agree, as has been said before, that the UN is good, but does the Enhedslisten seriously believe that it will be the UN and that Russia will approve a peacekeeping mission? And does the Enhedslisten want Russia to have a right of veto over a peacekeeping mission through the UN? I do not assume that it should be NATO at least?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163325	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163327	No, I don't think it's NATO. Now it's a pretty hypothetical question. One can also wonder whether Viktor Orbán will support an EU-supported action in Ukraine. I believe that what is at the heart of Ukraine is that when we come into the happy situation, when there is a peace or a negotiated peace, then it must be guaranteed by some, and there it will probably be some sort of multilateral force that will enter. I do not immediately see that it is the European Union. I do not know what kind of EU forces it would be. It is probably not the 5,000 soldiers who will be in an emergency force in 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163410	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163416	Now it is not Orban alone who decides it, and there is a difference between saying yes and not saying no, I just want to say in this context. I listened to the rapporteur's speech and thank you for it, because it actually makes some things quite clear to me, and it is that it is very, very difficult for the Enhedslisten to say yes to something: yes to NATO, yes to the European Union. It is even hard to say yes to Russia being a threat to Europe. It's hard. It's really hard for Enhedslisten to say these things, but it's the truth that it's a threat to Europe, and that's why we have to have the opportunity to go in and say yes to joining. Today we're just standing outside. We can't say yes or no to anything. The rapporteur then says that there is no control over the cost. But does Enhedslisten control what it costs to stand alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163527	Thank you. Here you go, Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163529	I think it is a serious insult to say that the Enhedslisten is outside when we have consistently helped to send arms to the Ukrainian Government's legitimate freedom struggle; when we have spoken of harsher sanctions against Russia for punishing them for their illegal aggression against Ukraine; when we have welcomed refugees; when we talk about contributing to reconstruction; when we talk about providing emergency aid. I'm having a really hard time seeing why it should mean we're standing outside. That is why the question is also what it is, in concrete terms, about abolishing the EU defence reserve, which would have allowed us to have acted differently from Ukraine, or could have ensured that we could more specifically support the Ukrainians' fight against the illegal action they are subjected to from Russia. Because Enhedslisten has no difficulty in saying yes. We also say 'yes' to UN cooperation. We have even proposed several times that we should play a more active role in relation to Bosnia. There has just been no political support for this. So we would very much like to contribute. We just want to make a concrete contribution where it also helps.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163638	Here you go, sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163640	Thank you. Now I do not know, but it is very difficult to imagine that Russia will say yes to anything. They are sitting on the UN Security Council and if they are going to say yes to action being taken somewhere, I think it will be very difficult to get the UN to agree to it. But all right, that's it. I should just like to end by asking: does the Enhedslisten agree that the EU and NATO are helping each other?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163711	In support of Ukraine: It is not Enhedslisten who has supported that we have made agreements around Nord Stream with Putin. On the other hand, the Left has helped to finance the Russian war economy. We do not have any difficulty in saying away from Russia. I do not expect Russia to say yes to a UN effort in relation to Ukraine. That is why I say it must be multilateral. So I don't think those straws don't dress sir. Kim Valentin to come with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163745	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more brief comments. And the next speaker on the platform is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504163759	Thank you. It is important that we use our democracy in making major decisions, and we are doing so now in relation to paragraph 19 of the Constitution. It is important that we can discuss things on an enlightened basis, and I hope that this debate will help. Because it is not always so often that we discuss the European Union. The European Union is mostly on the headlines in the media when there are cases that we do not like. Fortunately, this is not often the case, but it also means that there is a lot of other things happening in the European Union. But this debate is often about more or less the European Union. But that's not what this referendum is about. It is about security for Denmark, security for Europe, the opportunity to participate voluntarily in a cooperation. Now we're completely outside. The Conservative People's Party has been opposed to the defence reserve ever since it was introduced, it is almost 30 years ago, and in particular over the last 10 years we have increasingly experienced the consequences of the defence reserve: it has had increasing limitations on Denmark's influence on defence policy cooperation among the other EU countries, and at the same time theirs has been strengthened. So the price is actually that we are losing influence, and so are we now, because now we are being armed, especially in the light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Some will ask whether we should not wait to discuss this defence reserve until there is more peace in Europe. Yes, if anyone can just guarantee that there will be peace in Europe. Would anyone think that is what Putin wants to respect, that is, that we are not discussing security? And do you think it would help Denmark that we were outside? No, the only thing putin has such respect for is a strengthened Europe, strengthened cooperation with the West, with NATO and with the United States and Canada. We have just seen how Russian aircraft pass Danish airspace. Fortunately, we are good at radar and aircraft, but there are also many other things we need to be good at, and together we can do more. It is also about showing the outside world that we are united. It is a question of us fully joining in cooperation and cooperation which is intergovernmental. It is between the Member States. We also have cooperation in NATO as well as in the United Nations. It's not supranational. It is not Brussels that comes and can pass things around our parliaments. Since the defensive reservation was introduced, it has been activated about 30 times, and this means that we do not participate in the close cooperation on projects, training, air, military, maritime security and cyber; what we call PESCO. And that is of course relevant because there are several countries now with which we share more security interest, for example. in relation to the Baltic Sea, where we could launch an initiative, for example. on how to strengthen our security around the Baltic Sea against Russian submarines, for example. Together with Sweden they have submarines, we do not have Finland and the Baltic countries. So it is not as the 'no' side says that we are now just being dragged into a lot of projects. No, because we can say no to that, but on the contrary we can also create our own in relation to safeguarding Danish interests. We also believe that this has a positive effect on the military capabilities of NATO countries. And they can also participate as third countries, and we see that both Norway, Canada and the United States do. These are all three countries with which we are closely allied in NATO. Does Denmark then surrender its sovereignty to the EU? We hear that too, but as I said before, defence is intergovernmental cooperation. This is the traditional and common form of international cooperation between countries. And you take the provision that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who has now unfortunately left, often reads aloud from Article 31 (3) of the Treaty. In fact, Article 31 (2) of the Treaty states that decisions can be taken by a qualified majority in the field of common foreign and security policy. 4 that provisions do not have decisions having military and defence implications. We have heard clearly from both the United States and others that it is important for Europe to take its own security seriously. That's because it's two things that belong together. Some may think that NATO is the kind of thing that stands all the way out here, and then it is activated on the day we need it. No, it is the same soldiers, it is the same material, and it is important that we continue to develop our military and our ability to train and go on a mission, and we do so in European security cooperation. We can't win a national match if we only train at home on the lawn. After all, we have other options now if we are involved in voluntary security cooperation, and that is one of them. These missions that we can now help influence and participate in the debate on. It has been said before: NATO is plenty. But what is NATO? NATO is, of course, very much our close friends in the United States. But the United States is, for example, the United States. Not a great maritime nation. They do not have the same maritime interest as we do, and it is of course very important for our maritime industry in particular that we are a trading and shipping nation to be able to help strengthen missions off the Horn of Africa, but also off West Africa. So in other words, an EU mission provides us with an additional safety tool in the toolbox. At the same time, we will also have the opportunity to participate in many of the things that are about the more cross-border and that are not always so clear. That is, for example, the case. military planning and implementation capabilities, it is updating smart cooperation on cross-border threats. What is the defence of the future? It's, of course, very much IT, artificial intelligence, and it's cyber. That is where the great threat is to a great extent. The second is whether we are going to fight in the future under the European flag. This is something that is constantly being lifted up as the great elephant: the European army. There will be no European army, there has been no one in 30 years. It is said that there may be a common defence. But again: if you read the Treaty properly, it is the case that there must always be unanimity, as the draft law also says. And as long as Conservatives are involved, we will never be in favour of giving that opportunity of sovereignty. It also requires five sixths of a majority here in the Folketing, so we find it difficult to see that ever happening if we had to change the Treaty. But even if any other countries were to surrender their military sovereignty to be led from Brussels. It's hard to imagine that, for example. The French would go that way. We've lived a long time on peace dividend. Denmark has been active around where we saw the threat we thought it was from terror, al-Qaeda, in Afghanistan, in Iraq. We must see that European security is under strong pressure. It's from the south, and it's certainly from the east too. The bear doesn't sleep, the bear is alive, and this is where we really have to stand together and not stand outside as the only country while our allies look out for us. So, of course, we are in favour of this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164545	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. Mr President, first of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164553	We can't win a football game if we only train at home. I would like to ask the Conservative rapporteur: does the Conservative rapporteur think that the Danish military and air force only train at home? I mean, there isn't a country in the world that per year. citizens have so much activity outside and who have set up every time the United States in particular has asked us whether we want to join in. If you call training at home on your own football field, then I don't really know what kind of football field the European Union will be able to provide for a couple of combat groups of 1,500 men. I mean, we've been out on some of the sharpest fronts, too, and I'm against it in almost every conflict. I think it's a little bit like talking our commitment down. I think we are so united, even in the conservative sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164648	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164649	It is quite true that Denmark has been very, very active in missions, as mentioned before. in Iraq and Afghanistan. But that is certainly not what has been the case for the whole of Europe, nor when we are faced with the security threats that we are facing now, such as, among other things. Cybert rush, which is one of the big ones. It is in many ways in a figurative sense. What kind of threats do we have here when it comes to protecting Europe? We have certainly been active around, to a large extent also had a huge loss figure. We have some very strong soldiers, but our entire military capacity is not in very good condition. We need to upgrade it now and make it up to date. But I myself have seen that when you are out there and you have to engage in international cooperation, that is where the difficulties lie. You have different rotation periods, you have different languages, you have different material. So that also means that we have to play a part in that context, and that is what is important. That's why we have to train in common on the big track and not alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164751	Here you go. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164752	I'm sorry to hear that. I've been to Mali twice, even when we were in charge of the UN mission. There were only praise words because we have an army that understands what human rights are, what the rules of war are, and avoids corruption etc. etc. We have an enormously high standard. For example: human rights: what should we do about them not being part of the EU's military base? That's a big problem. And I mean, how the rapporteur can say that we are standing outside? We have been to Ukraine, we have been to the table down in Brussels and every time we have said our opinion, and we have been involved in a host of EU actions. What else are we gonna be in? We don't have the capacity to do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164837	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164841	If I have to answer the question of whether we have been in the EU as a whole, I would say that we have been sitting down there, but we have not been able to have codecision. We don't have that at the Council meeting. We have to stand outside. After all, we have not been able to participate in any more of the missions. We haven't been able to do that. We could also say that if you look forward to the reconstruction of Ukraine soon, then they must also have a strengthened defence. Who's gonna do this? It is most likely an EU mission. It would be a great pity if we could not help to strengthen Ukraine in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164925	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504164929	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. If we stick to the current situation, I would like the rapporteur to tell us what it is in the specific conflict that we are experiencing in Ukraine, in which the EU defence reserve has prevented us from participating. So what kind of support could we have given in relation to what we have not been able to do because of the EU defence reserve? Then I get a little bit dicked. I do not think the rapporteur is saying it directly, but she is suggesting that if you do not support this, you will almost not want to distance yourself from Putin or go on Putin's business. I just want to hear from the rapporteur what the rapporteur thinks, for example. in relation to the Enhedslisten or the Danes who agree that we should send weapons to Ukraine, that we should have tougher sanctions, that we should punish Putin for that aggression, but who then intends to vote against abolishing the defence reserve. Does the rapporteur think that they are more or less implicit in Putin's business?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165032	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165033	I'm gonna make sure. There were many questions in the question. I'm not even sure I remember the first. But if you do Putin's business, no, I don't think you can say that. After all, no one is taking Putin's business around the defence reserve, but I think Putin would be well pleased if we maintained a reservation and were not fully involved. It has to be said that he is beating us right now by now overflowing our airspace twice. We're alone. That's quite a provocation. Then I must have repeated the first question, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165110	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165112	Well, the rapporteur may then have an opportunity to reply to that now. Does the rapporteur really believe that Putin is concerned about how the vote will be in relation to the defence reserve in Denmark? Does the rapporteur not believe that Putin is more concerned with imposing tougher sanctions; do we continue to send weapons to the legitimate struggle of the Ukrainian Government; are we united in supporting Ukraine? Is that not what makes a difference in relation to Ukraine and in relation to standing together against Putin? That is the second question. What is it specifically in the EU defence reserve that prevents us from doing the things that show support for Ukraine and opposition to Putin?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165150	Thank you for the question. In relation to the situation of the person concerned in Ukraine, it can be said that there is nothing to prevent it right now. We're on it, and it's through NATO. We see it more forward-looking when it comes to stabilising Ukraine. We work closely with both the UN, but of course also through the EU in relation to sanctions. After all, that is the lead we have really stood together on and where we are hitting Putin or Russia very hard. We have five sanctions packages. As far as military action is concerned, it is a lot through NATO right now, and it is the Americans who are directly inside. However, in the case of reconstruction, forward-looking, it is clear that the European Union will have a major role there. It will be very difficult to see NATO entering Ukraine and building its defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165232	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165235	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for a good speech with a perspective. I would like to touch on this contradiction between the European Union and NATO that is being set up. After all, the Left takes the view that NATO is the backbone and that it will continue to be, but there is no contradiction. We help each other, and we must continue to help each other. We have done so in Ukraine with sanctions on the part of the European Union and with a lot of support and equipment for Ukraine, and we can do so in a good way in cooperation between the European Union and NATO. Can the rapporteur confirm that the Conservatives think roughly the same as us or perhaps have something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165325	I can only confirm that Conservatives here are very much in agreement with the Left. NATO is our overall guarantor, but we have also seen that we cannot continue to expect the United States, in the form of NATO, to be able to guarantee the security of Europe at all times. The Americans have also spoken it several times, and so it is also with the recent statement by the American ambassador in Denmark that it is in diplomatic terms that one should say yes to removing the reservation. Strengthened European military cooperation and capacity also help support NATO. They go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165401	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Then I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Then we welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165416	The development of an EU towards the United States of Europe is not in Denmark's interest, and a majority of the Danes agree with that. After all, the EU Treaties have written that the intention is to develop an ever closer union. That is what the Treaties say in black and white. It was to avoid being drawn in the direction that the Danes voted against the Maastricht agreement 30 years ago. At that time, the Danes avoided the pursuit of more union, and that is why Denmark took its reservations. The Danes were insured against further union development. Both in 2000, when Denmark voted against the euro. and again in 2015, when it became a no to remove the legal reservation, the Danes have confirmed that they want to maintain that assurance. Now the 'yes' parties are again trying to get Denmark deeper into the union this time with a proposal that Denmark should participate in the construction of an EU defence. In this way, I welcome the vote itself. In New Citizens we are in favour of allowing the voice of the Danes to be heard much more frequently in the important cases, and I am very confident that the Danes are so reasonable that they will not leave the defence of Denmark and Europe to the European Union. We have a much larger and stronger alliance for this, namely NATO. And yes, we agree that Denmark's defence needs to be strengthened, but the answer is not to participate in building an EU defence, the answer is to strengthen NATO, that is where Denmark must focus its efforts in cooperation with the other countries of the NATO alliance, including the United States, Canada, Great Britain and Norway. Nothing has been gained for Denmark's security now in lifting the defence reservation. At best, it only costs more money without making use of it and, at worst, it becomes a weakening of NATO and hence the common defence. A yes on 1 June also does not increase Denmark's security in the current crisis with Russia as a result of Russia's attack on Ukraine. EU defence cannot protect Denmark, neither against Putin nor other warrior dictators, only NATO can. A 'no' vote on 1 June does not exclude Denmark from participating in preventive defence efforts in countries in our neighbourhood, because it is already taking place on a large scale. Denmark is also already actively contributing to the management of the EU's external borders in Frontex operations. The Danish Frontex contributions include: the deployment of Challenger surveillance aircraft to support the fight against illegal migratory flows. In view of the security incidents in the Strait of Hormuz in 2019, France took the initiative to establish a maritime surveillance operation in the Strait of Hormuz. The purpose of the operation was to protect the freedom of navigation of ships passing through the Strait of Hormuz, to ensure coordination between partners in the area and to contribute to the descalers through presence on both sides of the strait. And here Denmark as a leading maritime nation naturally also participates, and the deployment of Danish forces we supported in New Citizens then, and we will do so again. A no on 1 June it therefore does not harm Denmark's ability to participate in military operations. Nor does a 'no' vote on 1 June prevent us from cooperating with other Western countries, for example. the fight against cyberattacks. We participate in this through NATO, which cooperates with the European Union, just as both Britain and Norway also do through NATO. A 'no' 1 June does not prevent Denmark from supporting the NATO alliance, for example. building infrastructure so that NATO forces can come to each other more easily and more quickly. So summa summarum, we can with the reservation intact still determine what we will participate in militarily. New citizens therefore recommend the Danes to vote no on 1 June. With a 'no' vote on 1 June, the Danes can renew their insurance policy, maintain our independence, strengthen NATO cooperation and maintain their opposition to the ever closer union, an ever closer union which is not in Denmark's defence or security policy interests. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165812	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165817	Thank you. There were some false premises in the rapporteur's speech. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for that, because then we can have the opportunity to ask questions about it. Firstly, there is no contradiction between NATO and the European Union. Why isn't there? There isn't because you're pointing at each other. As recently as February, Mr Stoltenberg has just pointed out the European Union as a complement, which means helping each other. Already in 2014 it was written down in the Wales Declaration that there was complementarity between the EU and NATO. So that premise is simply false. Secondly, it is also a false premise that more is left to the European Union. We have the opportunity to vote 'no' as much as we have said 'no' and so far if we remove the defence reserve. We just have the opportunity to say yes, too. Can the rapporteur confirm the last part?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504165924	I assume that the questioner would like answers to both questions. And when it comes to saying no, it is quite correct that we can say no. But it is clear that if we enter into cooperation there will also be an expectation that we will contribute. I find it interesting that the 'yes' parties are talking so much about us saying 'no' and saying 'no' why should we join it? Of course, we will contribute. With regard to the contradiction between NATO and the European Union, I would say that we have finally agreed that we should have the 2% that we had promised NATO that we would come up with in 2024, and that money should of course be spent on strengthening Danish defence in cooperation with NATO. We should not send the money to a parallel system in the EU system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504170007	Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504170009	Thank you for confirming that you have the opportunity to say yes and then there is the question of NATO and the European Union again. We have neighbouring countries, Sweden, Finland... they are not members of NATO. Should we not help them in the European Union when they are not members of NATO? Of course we do. We must then stand together in the Nordic countries, and Denmark must also have the opportunity to help in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504170039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504170040	I find it very interesting that what they are talking about both in Finland and Sweden is joining NATO, because they know very well that this is where their insurance lies. So, Putin is not worried about the European Union, he is worried about NATO, and it is being in NATO that is our security guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504170101	Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments, and I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur of the new citizens, Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. And then I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber. Is that correct? Then I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504170120	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for a good debate today, I think good speeches, relevant points of view, an important matter and I also look forward to the work of the committee afterwards. And let me say at the outset that I welcome the broad support given to the legislative proposals at first reading. At the same time, I would like to thank Parliament for its support for the speedy examination of the legislative proposals so that a referendum can be held on 1 June. It is in many ways uplifting to witness the debate and listen to the many parties in the Folketing who stand together to make an important choice in a difficult time. In my optics, it is a responsible choice for the future. The time has come for Denmark to become fully involved in European cooperation on defence and security. It is time to choose unity instead of reservations. The circumstances are unhappy and deeply worrying: a war on European soil, an attack on a free and sovereign country where ordinary people are subjected to the most terrible things a short flight from Denmark. I just got back from Ukraine yesterday. Unfortunately, I was confirmed by what an accident we are witnessing in Europe. I was confirmed by the fact that we are going through both disturbing and uncertain times. And Putin's war is not just about Ukraine; it is an attack on everything we in Europe and the West stand for. It is simply also our security and our values that are at stake. This means, of course, that we also have responsibilities and responsibilities that we must live up to. But it is a responsibility that Denmark can and will take on. It is up to Denmark to take responsibility and defend what we believe in, and the community gives us security and confirms that we are not alone in defending our common values and our security. We are in a tighter security policy situation. We must, and must, deal with this. It calls for action. The status quo is simply not an option. The fact that time calls for action is not an analysis; we are left alone with the opposite. If we just look at our European neighbours, they have already made historic decisions, as several have said. Germany has decided to increase defence expenditure by more than 740 billion. kr. Germany has also sent arms aid to Ukraine, thereby taking a historic stand against the standing German policy of not sending weapons to war zones. Switzerland, which is in principle a neutral country, has joined the full package of EU sanctions against Russia. And our brother countries Sweden and Finland, which only 70 years ago chose to be outside NATO, are now engaged in a serious debate on possible NATO membership. All these things had few people thought they could take place just 3 months ago... three completely fateful months for Europe. In other words, we are faced with a whole new normal image in Europe, whether we like it or not. All previous policies are re-examined and with good reason. That is the reality we have to deal with, including in Denmark. Putin has been met with a historically strong European and transatlantic We have shown that Europe does not accept injustice and brutality. Europe has shown itself and we must continue to show solidarity. No European country can stand alone in the fight against injustice and strife. Together, we must defend our free and western societies. And it is precisely our strength that we need to take care of together, because unity can be fragile. It takes effort to invest yourself, and we must never take for granted the cohesion of Europe. This also means that each country must contribute and take responsibility. Each of us must take up our part of the task of ensuring a more secure and more free Europe. This is happening together with our allies in NATO, but it is also happening through European security and defence cooperation, to which Denmark today, as the only one of the 27 EU countries, has a reservation. Denmark is an active country that is known to contribute to the international community, and European security and defence cooperation must not be the exception, and certainly not when we see historic changes in European security policy today, changes that make us in Europe united, that we must jointly take greater responsibility for our security, and that is the strength of the European Community. Just look at what Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova did first after Putin's nasty war in Ukraine. Yes, they applied for EU membership because they know that unity gives strength. I have said before that we will only take a stand on the defence reserve if the reservation prevents us from pursuing the foreign, security and defence policy that Denmark must pursue in order to look after our country. And here we are now. Putin's attack on Ukraine has changed the picture. The world is no longer the same after February 24th. The time has come for a fight with the reservation. The reservation goes against Denmark's interests. Our place is with the other 26 EU countries. We must help shape our common future, invest in our common security. Fortunately, Denmark is part of European unity, but we have made reservations about our own security. We should change that now. That is why the government recommends that we vote 'yes' on 1 June and become fully involved in European cooperation in the field of security and defence by abolishing the EU defence reserve. Security and defence cooperation in the European Union is fundamentally intergovernmental, and there are good reasons for this. Defence is a core task for every sovereign state. By participating in the cooperation, we will be able to cooperate closely with others, give priority to work, exchange experiences and ideas, extend cooperation in breadth and depth, and, above all, solve tasks jointly. This will all be done on a voluntary basis and with the agreement of each country. A crucial element in our security is NATO, and here I would like to emphasise that, when we strengthen the European Union, we strengthen NATO. A strengthened Europe will give even more muscle to transatlantic cooperation. That is why our American friends do not hide the fact that they want Europe and the European Union to take more responsibility for their own security. It has actually been an American wish for a long time. And I have not heard that any of the 21 EU countries, which are also members of NATO today, want to break free from NATO on the contrary. Both the European Union and NATO must provide more for common security, which is why it is not logical that Denmark, as the only EU country, can only contribute to NATO. And yes, Jens Stoltenberg, NATO's Secretary-General, said only in February that the EU and NATO are two sides of the same coin that complement each other, complementing each other, and so it is also an emphasis on how important it is for us to invest in both organisations. Our participation in EU cooperation does not change the fact that NATO is and remains the guarantor of the defence of Denmark, of the collective defence of all NATO countries. It is also clear from the Treaty on European Union itself that NATO takes precedence over the European Union. However, the European Union must play an important role in supporting NATO by taking more responsibility, through EU cooperation, for the development of and around Europe, in our own neighbourhoods. That's what this is all about. Denmark can make a difference in terms of both the tough and the soft in NATO and in the EU. This is the basis for the security of Denmark and the Danes, and it requires unity and not reservations. As you know, it is difficult to predict, especially about the future, and I cannot, of course, say exactly how Denmark will contribute and take responsibility in European cooperation in the future, but I can say with certainty that the world is different after 24 February. And I think it is absolutely crucial that Denmark now has the opportunity to take responsibility for Europe and Denmark's security and thus also take responsibility for our common future. So let me finish where I started by saying thank you for the debate. Now I look forward to the work of the committee and the report, and I also look forward to a good, objective and informative debate on 1 June so that the Danes can take a position on the defence reservation and our full participation in European cooperation in the field of defence and security. I think we should all take care of this, because it is important in the time we are in, when our neighbouring countries too are making major decisions, that we also take stock of the situation in Denmark. And the government's position is clear: we must be fully involved. We must show solidarity. We must be with the other EU countries in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171015	Thank you for your ministerial speech. There is a brief comment, and I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171021	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I read with great interest that after some reflection the Minister ended up in the right place, I think, namely where the Minister said that a referendum would be guaranteed if sovereignty were to be handed over to the European Union in the military field. That is why I read the bill with great interest, and there I could see that there had simply been an error, namely that the government had not written it into the legislative text, but instead it was in the legislative notes, which are not legally binding. Fortunately, the government is now equipped with a friendly parliamentary basis which can, of course, help the government to correct the mistakes that are being made. That is why, of course, the Enhedslisten will also table an amendment to ensure that it is written directly into the legislative text. That's why I just want to ask the Minister if the government is going to accept that help.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171111	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171112	After all, the government has given a clear political promise of a referendum in the hypothetical situation that it should be talking about fundamentally amending the EU Treaty either by abolishing the right of veto in the defence field or by establishing a supranational EU army. We are now entering into the legislative notes to avoid any doubt and to put an end to the myth that this European army can suddenly be set up without the Danes being heard, and that is also to move forward in the debate. I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund, that this is not the first time that we in the Danish Parliament have made a commitment across parties. So we did so in 1993, when we promised the Folketing that if we were to have a dispute with the defence reserve, it would have to be a referendum. That's exactly what we're doing here 29 years later. So these are political promises which I hope there is broad support for in the Folketing and which means that if the hypothetical situation should arise, we will have a referendum in Denmark. Moreover, the government will be opposed to such a proposal to abolish the right of veto in defence or to establish a supranational EU army.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171215	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171216	Well, it is excellent that it is a promise, but let us then just write it into the legislative text, because then we will also ensure that it is legally binding and why have that opposition to it at all? For it is clear that I assume the Minister agrees that there is no legal obligation in it when it appears in the legislative notes, but that will be ensured if it is directly in the legislative text. So if that is the intention, why not just give it a guarantee to the people by saying it is in the legislative text? Then there is no doubt that it cannot be done by a five-sixth majority or anything else; it is the reservations of the people and the people are guaranteed a new vote if sovereignty is given in the military field.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171253	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171254	But this is a promise of political importance, whether it is in a legislative text or in the legislative notes. That is a promise we made in 1993. There it was in the legislative notes, and this means, among other things, that we will have a referendum on 1 June. And I really hope that we can now focus on substance and on having a good, objective and informative debate so that the Danes can take a position on 1 June. I think there has been far too much focus on some procedural issues and too little focus on Denmark's participation and responsibility for European security and defence, among other things. by abolishing the defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171330	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the European Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171348	The debate is open. And then we must both welcome and congratulate the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171410	Thank you so much. Free Greens have tabled a motion for a resolution which gives the government the task of establishing electoral federations in parliamentary elections. The proposal would mean that very small parties could be elected to the Folketing with just one mandate or two, and that would mean, in practice, that the rules on the threshold would be abolished. It is therefore not a proposal that the government can support. The comments on the motion for a resolution state that the rules in force have worked well until the 2019 elections, when three new parties were running without elections. Overall, the government's position is that the rules on elections to the Folketing should be based on democratic principles and not, therefore, on how elections take place for this or that party. The basic principle behind the rules is that parties with some support from the electorate must have a share in the mandates corresponding to the membership and the threshold must ensure that a party has some support. It also helps in practice to ensure that we have a democracy which not only provides an opportunity to exchange views, but also a democracy which has the opportunity to take decisions and which is workable. This ensures that we have a democracy that can also work in practice. In addition, we have circuit mandates which reflect both population development and ensure that sparsely populated areas are reasonably represented, and this also ensures a local affiliation between those who vote and those who elected. Finally, we have the supplementary mandates, and we have them to balance out any imbalances, so that the composition of the Folketing as a whole reflects the electorate's position. The basic principles on which our already rather complicated rules are based will, in the opinion of the government, be watered down if we introduce electoral federations in parliamentary elections. But, of course, our electoral rules must not only work in principle but must also work in practice. Therefore, the question the authors of the motion for a resolution revolve around is, of course, always relevant to have a focus on, namely whether the conditions are good enough for new parties and thus all new political views to be heard and represented in the Folketing. It is the government's view that this question can be answered yes. In the 2019 elections, ten parties joined the Folketing. This is the highest number of parties since 1977. We therefore already have a system which allows new parties, on the one hand, to stand up and, on the other hand, to obtain elections and, on the other hand, to limit the phenomenon that the proposers call a waste of their votes. This is because, on the one hand, we have a very low threshold, if you compare it with the countries around us. If you look at Sweden, Norway and Germany, the threshold is 4 and 5 per cent respectively. On the other hand, we are required to collect quite a lot of electoral declarations, some 20,000, in order to be able to stand for election at all, which is also a safeguard against what is called a waste of votes. One might then ask whether there is anything wrong with the electoral system, because not all candidates and parties will be elected to parliament. I do not think so. It is probably a basic condition in any electoral system that you can run and be elected, but also risk not being elected. I am quite convinced that most voters are upset if they tick a party that does not have elections, but I do not think it can be concluded that the vote given on a party that does not have elections is wasted. After all, it remains a voice in which a voter has expressed with his or her voice what his or her views are and how he or she wishes to mark his or her mark. All in all, I believe that we have an electoral system that has a reasonable balance and, on that basis and on the basis of the arguments I have put forward, the government cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171852	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171854	First of all, a huge congratulations on the new job. It must be a great feeling when you have been a partisan and worked day in and day out, that you are rewarded with what the minister has been rewarded with. So congratulations. So to the point where, of course, we are sorry that the government will not support the proposal. At least we think it's time we had this talk about where our democracy is going. In other words, we have electoral federations, both when it comes to local elections, and we also have electoral federations when it comes to EU elections, but we do not have that when it comes to parliamentary elections. So can the Minister tell me where the Minister thinks the difference lies? Why is it that we have it in local elections, why does it make sense for local elections, why does it make sense for an EU election and not for a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504171959	First of all, thank you very much. I think I must enjoy this first time being on the chair; it is not certain that it will be quite so kind forward-looking, but I will take it with me, thank you very much. In relation to the question and, in particular, the answer to it, it is circling the threshold. In other words, if you have the possibility of an electoral union in parliamentary elections, you will abolish the threshold, and it is the government's view that the threshold is reasonable for a parliamentary election, because it makes sense that it requires the support of a certain proportion of the electorate if you are to influence the country's most basic laws and rules. As far as the European Parliament is concerned, despite the fact that there is an opportunity for electoral federations, there are so few seats at stake that there is a de facto threshold. In fact, it is very difficult to achieve elections, and I do not think that the same concern as regards threshold limits applies in municipal elections, where the elected politicians have to deal with much more close relations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172112	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172114	I wanted to dwell a little more on the threshold, but there is no time for that, so the Minister will have another question. We hear many times in the debate that small parties are not being voted on because in this constellation they say it is a waste of votes, and of course the Minister is arguing that it is not a waste of votes, because it expresses its voice by voting for a party, whether it be elected or not. However, at the last election, 153 000 people voted and their voice was not expressed in any other way than that they had voted. Does the Minister not consider this to be a challenge for our democracy? And as things stand now, there will be more parties in this election on the voting list, and can it not be a democratic challenge if that number grows?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172208	After all, I had argued why I believe that the concept of a waste of votes is misleading, and I will stick to that argument. I also believe that it is possible to question whether we really have a situation in which there are many who will abstain from voting on a party with which they otherwise agree, because they fear that the party will not be represented. If you look at the elections in 2019, as I think I also mentioned, there were as many as ten parties that were elected. That is why it has to be said that the Danes are voting for many different parties, and in view of the concern we are discussing here, what I believe is the very strong concern, namely that we have a democracy which is not only an expression of opinion but also a democracy which can take decisions. And I think that can be challenged if we want to bring in many parties sitting on one or two mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172258	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister, and thank you for the Minister's first ministerial speech, and good luck with the work. Thank you). Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the first is the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172313	Thank you for that, and first of all I would like to start by welcoming all of you, Mrs Birgitte Vind, on behalf of the internal rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, and saying that unfortunately she was not able to be here today, and that I am therefore here as a substitute for Mrs Birgitte Vind. Then, too, I think it is appropriate to start by congratulating the Minister on his new job, and I am quite sure that Mrs Birgitte Vind would have done the same, so congratulations have now been sent and we look forward to further cooperation. So to the very heart of the matter, the resolution we are debating here today, and it has been put forward by the Free Greens, who would like the government to put forward proposals to introduce electoral federations into parliamentary elections before the end of 2022. At the same time, it is written in the comments on the proposal that the method of distributing seats in the electoral federations must be the same as in municipal and European elections, and one of the reasons why the motion for a resolution has been tabled by the Free Greens is to minimise voting waste and make it easier for small parties to be elected. All in all, this sounds very sympathetic, but we must not forget that there are also some serious challenges to this resolution. Today, the electoral system is in such a way that the distribution of circuit mandates between the large groups must both reflect population development, but at the same time it must also ensure that areas in Denmark that are hardly well-populated are given a fair representation. At the same time, there is a threshold for parliamentary elections, and that threshold helps to ensure that we have a good balance between the number of parties and a working parliament capable of taking decisions. We in the Social Democratic Party consider this to be a serious consideration, especially when we talk about elections to the legislative assembly, and this motion for a resolution to introduce electoral federations will sweep those concerns off the rails. This will have a major impact on how the electoral federations have been set up and will allow us to circumvent the threshold which exists and to ensure that we have parties in the Folketing, which are also widely represented in terms of population. We can actually also see, when we look at the figures, that in the Danish Parliament we have many small parties. In fact, we have to go back to 1977 to find a Parliament in which there has been a higher number of parties who obtained elections to the Folketing. In the 2019 elections, as the Minister also pointed out, as many as ten parties were elected to the Folketing. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is a good sign that our current electoral system is working. We also think that this is a sign that there is a possibility that a new party can be crossed as a voter and thus also help to ensure that it is represented here in the Folketing. With those comments, the Social Democrats do not want to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172637	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172644	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am, of course, sorry that the Social Democrats will not support the proposal. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur's view is that, when the rapporteur follows the public debate on small parties, it is a general argument that small parties can help create a waste of votes. Is that the rapporteur's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172715	I think that the debate should be reversed. I think that, as a small party, as a new party, unlike in other countries, there are some good opportunities for being elected to the Folketing. In Denmark, unlike in other countries, we have a low threshold. This also means that there is a good opportunity to agitate into the Folketing. I just have to say that we can also see in this Assembly that some of the present Members have already succeeded in collecting the necessary signatures so that they can become a party that is running for parliament. When I see the polls not because there are any of us in here listening to them, I can also say that some of the parties that will be on the ballot paper at the next election are, if I may say so, cheerful when it comes to coming to parliament and representing their new party after the next election. So I actually see that we have a good opportunity in Denmark to run and join the Folketing if you get the necessary support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172824	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172826	Is it not the rapporteur's view that the fact that we have a lower threshold than our neighbouring countries is due to the fact that we have a higher requirement to collect electoral declarations and that the two things are actually linked? Does the rapporteur accept this? At the last parliamentary elections, two parties were given 1.7% respectively. and 1.8%. of the votes, i.e. just below the threshold, and they did not enter, and so there were 153 000 votes which, so to speak, were not included in the pool, is that a democratic challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172901	I do not believe that this is a democratic challenge, as the rapporteur directly asks me. I think it is quite reasonable that, if you want to be a member of the legislative assembly, then there are some shoe soles that need to be worn out. You have to go out and demonstrate that you have a backing through signatures, and then you try it out in a parliamentary election. There's also a certain amount of support that's going to be 2 per cent. of the votes. In fact, I think that is quite reasonable in order to be a representative here in the legislative assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172938	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We are going to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504172948	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Free Greens for raising the debate in this Chamber today with the motion for a resolution. When we Danes cross the ballot papers, it is in that way that in the parliamentary elections we have 135 circuit mandates and 40 supplementary mandates, and we distribute the circuit mandates so that they also reflect both population development and probably also, I think, a reasonable representation of the regions where there is a little longer space between the houses. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, which we are debating today, would then like to see elections to be held in parliamentary elections, which can of course be held in local, regional and European elections. In fact, in the Left, we think quite basically that it works well as we have screwed it together in this country. It is also in the way mentioned by previous rapporteurs that, in the last elections, no less than ten parties were elected representing the people in this room, and I must say that some of what I am thinking about at least is the struggle to be the representative of the people in Things, and that is where I think it is okay to go out and fight to get there. And then I have to say, I'm okay with the threshold being 2%. and thus also ensure that there are good opportunities also for relatively small new parties to be elected, and compared to what we have in neighbouring countries such as Germany and Sweden, our threshold is the lower. So all in all, I can say that we in the Left really think that the rules in force provide reasonable conditions, including for different political views, and for that matter also the possibility of being represented in the Folketing. For this reason, we will not be supporting the motion for a resolution tabled by the Green Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173208	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173213	Sorry, I was just so busy listening to the speech that I forgot to press the button. Thank you to the rapporteur. I am, of course, sorry that the Left does not support the proposal. However, I would actually like to challenge the argument put forward by the Social Democrat rapporteur in relation to the threshold, because I do not think that logic is entirely pure. Well, we're not gonna lift the threshold. After all, the electoral union still has to cross the threshold to get in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173246	Now, of course, I do not have the opportunity to put questions to the rapporteur of the Free Green Group, but I can do that later. However, if we were to implement what the Greens have proposed, it would be possible, in fact, to be elected with just one mandate. That's how I see it. That is really what worries me, that is, if you can then sit as a party in the Folketing and have a single mandate. I think that's too little.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173314	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173317	I can't wait to answer that when it's my turn on the platform. But I want to hear about something. Now, of course, we do not have any statistics on this; that is why I am asking the rapporteur's view: is it the rapporteur's view that if one had such an electoral union, more citizens would have a tendency not necessarily to vote for the established parties, but to vote for other parties which are not, in the traditional sense, large enough to cross the threshold? Would that mean anything in relation to how citizens would tick their marks?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173353	No, actually, I don't think so. I actually believe that the people somehow get involved in the party programme and politics of each party and vote on it, not necessarily on the basis of the electoral federations they have entered into. I really think that I am experiencing a little the same in municipal elections, so that even if there are electoral associations, the people will find out who they want to support. That is where the cross is placed so that they are not interested in who the party has actually entered into an electoral union with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173426	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that, Mr President. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173435	Thank you, sir. President. In fact, the motion for a resolution to introduce electoral federations into the parliamentary elections is quite sympathetic in the SF's view. In the past, in this parliamentary year, the SF has tabled a motion for a resolution precisely to set up an electoral commission, because we want to see whether a method of distribution other than the d'Hondt method should be used in future. There was, in fact, a great deal of support for the proposal, but not a majority, but it was decided in the Committee on the Interior and Housing that some researchers would be allowed to carry out an analysis and we are still waiting for it. On behalf of the SF, I would like to say that I am quite sure that this analysis can provide a good basis for making a more qualified decision on how we can be better at ensuring some kind of proportionality in terms of voting and converting into political mandates. I think it is a pity that the Free Greens have not called in those parties that actually supported the SF's proposal, because I am quite sure that we could have discussed the issue of what we can do to prevent so many votes from necessarily being represented by a party in the Folketing. I am not convinced that the d'Hondt method proposed in the motion for a resolution here is the best in terms of distributing mandates. You look, for example. to Ireland, then they have a slightly different method when it comes to voices that have to give influence. This is where priority is given to choosing a first priority and a second priority, and if you vote for a party that does not enter, it is your second priority that applies. I am not necessarily saying that it could be the solution that is also the drawbacks of the method but I would actually have liked the proposal to have been put forward in such a way that we could have discussed the problem in committee rather than have to say yes or no to this motion for a resolution. As we in the SF would like to await the analysis of our motion for a resolution, we cannot support the proposal because it is precisely linked to the D'Hondt method, but we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173636	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173639	I am sorry, on behalf of the Green Group, that we have not made this proposal differently or talked about it. However, I see it as positive signals from the SF rapporteur here, because for us it is also very important to talk about our electoral system. So I welcome it, I look forward to the committee reading, and I look forward to the further discussions on what kind of electoral system we have and whether our people are represented ■ what about minority votes, i.e. in the number of minorities, etc. etc.? So thank the rapporteur and I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173725	Well, I can only say thank you and that we meet in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173730	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173741	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the Greens for putting forward this proposal. After all, this gives rise to a good debate on democracy and the electoral system, and I always think it is good to take that debate. The proposers want us to have the same method of parliamentary elections as we have in local and European elections. But it will actually mean, as other rapporteurs have also said, that we are de facto abolishing the threshold or the blocking rules that we have, and in the Radical Left we do not find any reason to change the rules, because there is a difference between a parliamentary election and the other elections. For example: It is, after all, much harder to obtain a mandate in the European Parliament elections, where there are 14 seats to be allocated. At the same time, we have these supplementary mandates in connection with a parliamentary election which is somehow going to go in to make up for this so-called vote wastage. I do not want to say that it is easy to be elected to the Folketing, but vice versa, when we compare ourselves with other countries, we have a lower threshold, and on the part of the Radical Left we really think it is very good there. Against this background, the Radical Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173900	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173905	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. And I can just repeat myself and say that, of course, we would like the Radical Left to support the proposal. In fact, I would challenge once more the logic of the argument about the threshold, because, as I have drafted the proposal, there will still be a threshold which must be crossed. I mean, it's not like we're abolishing it with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504173937	Yeah, I actually think you do. If nothing else is done away with it, at least for the individual party. Then you can join the electoral federations on a cross-cutting basis, but the individual party, which ends up being represented in the Folketing on the basis of some votes cast to other parties, is not, of course, what to say, crossing the threshold, but ends up sitting in the legislature, in the Folketing, and representing on the basis of votes given to other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174011	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174013	But isn't it very good that we get parties and a lot of views into the people's regime? Is that not precisely what the aim should be, that is, for more votes to be entered and for more votes to be included in the debate? Well, I do not see the negative in that there should be some other voices or the votes of smaller parties coming in. Well, I'm thinking that it creates diversity in our folk rule and a broader and better representation. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174044	Yes, I am very fond of debate and different opinions across the board. That is what we are discussing here in the Assembly. So it is not to highlight something that should be negative, but I think it is a good thing that we should have a certain share of the public's support for being a representative in this Chamber and for democracy to be the way in which the legislative assembly works too, so that we actually come up with some agreements and get some legislation passed. So I would rather turn it around and highlight the positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174121	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174133	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much to the Free Greens for putting forward this proposal and thereby raising this debate. For it is absolutely essential, when we live in a democracy, that we also have to recognise that a democracy is alive and dynamic. It can always be developed, and we must constantly look at how we can ensure that we achieve a greater degree of representation. That is why I think there are some good tactics in the proposal tabled here by the Free Greens. I also think that there are some issues in relation to that. It is true that there are some things with regard to the D'Hondt method and whether this is exactly the right way to proceed, and I would say that in the Enhedslisten we are in principle of the opinion that we should remove the threshold and thus ensure that the threshold was such that if sufficient votes were secured for the cost of a mandate, representation would be obtained in the Folketing. But I think that is also something we should look at in committee. The SF's rapporteur also said that they could see some positive things in it as well, and it may be that we can end up with some kind of report in relation to it. Otherwise, however, we are in favour of the proposal as a starting point. We are precisely because, when we talk about democracy, it is also about ensuring that as many votes as possible are represented. There may sometimes be a tendency that, although we have a lot of external contact and contact with interest groups and other things, a kind of bubble will arise in here at Christiansborg, where the interest groups we are talking to also adjust their arguments to what is politically feasible, and thus also to a greater or lesser extent to speak the language of power. There will, of course, be a strength in ensuring a higher level of representation and ensuring that more votes will also be heard in this Chamber. I think, moreover, when we look at how developments have been in relation to non-attached Members, that there might be concern that people actually come in here by being elected on their own terms of office. Perhaps that could be limited because in that case one can say that there is at least an elected mandate that one has set up and has been elected to, rather than having been elected for something else and then simply choosing to go out as a non-attached Member. I see a greater democratic problem here when we talk about how the people's regime can work, but I think there are some positive tactics in it. These are also some things that I think could be better formulated in order to be able to carry them through, but let us try to look at it in committee. In any case, we are in favour of it as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174422	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174426	Thank you very much for, I think, an exciting outline of both the nuances, the pitfalls and the positive aspects of this proposal. I did not mean to say anything, but in the speech by the rapporteur I thought that I really think that what the rapporteur's own party did when they came to Parliament is really, really interesting, because then there was, if I may say so, I do not think I am insulting the rapporteur by saying that a large patchwork blanket was out on the left, where each of these parties in the curtain had difficulty individually in coming to Parliament. Then you got it together and created a basis so that the citizens, the voters out there, could clearly see what it is you vote for if you vote on the Enhedslisten. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur, and the rapporteur must not take the tricky view that he is not going to send a call to Mr Beazley. Sikandar Siddique says that then you have to go out and fight, join forces with colleagues and so on, and then create a basis for which there is support among the people. Enhedslisten succeeded and congratulations on it; you have been in parliament for many years. But it is just to illustrate that it can actually be done with the electoral rules that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174538	Thank you, sir. Anders Kronborg for the perspective. It's absolutely right. Now I was with you when we formed the Enhedslisten, and I remember clearly how the then MP, Mr. Jacob Haugaard drilsk called it the united estates of death. After all, we succeeded, and we are here today. Well, sir. Anders Kronborg has a point in relation to the fact that it is also a strength to be able to sit down together and find a common basis together, and I think that we should look at it in such a democratic way, because it is true that many new parties have emerged recently, including parties which, fortunately, hold the environmental and climate agenda high, one can say that what we need is not that we have more parties. Maybe it's more like you can get together on a case. It just does not change the whole principle, since when we talk about democracy and ensuring that as many votes as possible can be presented, I think we could consider the question of whether the threshold should be abolished. It never changes by the strength of gathering, finding a common ground, thus ensuring greater impact. I do not believe that the two things are mutually exclusive. On the contrary, I believe that we should be able to rely on both.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174648	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174650	In fact, I think I got a very good answer, so there is no need to invent new questions. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174655	You're welcome. A good question can sometimes give a good answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174700	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners or brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174714	You have to hear a lot in this room before your ears fall off the estate association or whatever it was. I actually thought it was very good. Well, I'd like to welcome the new minister and congratulations on the job. I'm looking forward to working together. And then it goes to the case. Not since 1979 has there been such a high number of parties that have won elections in the Folketing than the ten parties elected in 2019, and the result of the most recent parliamentary elections certainly shows very well that it should not have become more difficult for new or small parties to obtain elections to the Folketing either. So this evening we are discussing a motion for a resolution by the Free Greens, and it is a question of requiring the government to put forward proposals to introduce electoral federations before the end of 2022. The aim, according to the proposers, is to limit so-called waste of votes, but there we believe that the rules in force do not prevent new parties or movements from merging together, and we believe that, on the contrary, the electoral law provides good conditions for all political opinions to be heard and represented in the Folketing. It is important that the rules governing elections to the Folketing are based on fundamental democratic principles and not on the concrete nature of each election for each party. And then we come to all that about circuit mandates, which many have mentioned, and it's quite a calculation, how to count all that together; it's really complicated. However, the distribution of circuit mandates between the major groups must reflect both population development and ensure ample representation for the sparsely populated regions in Denmark. It's important. In addition, additional mandates to ensure mathematical proportionality by offsetting the so-called waste of votes which may arise for the parties in the individual large circles. I recognise that all these things are quite a puzzle, but the motion for a resolution tabled will, in our view, undermine these fundamental principles and, against this background, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174922	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504174926	Thank you, Mr Conservatives' rapporteur. We are sorry that you do not support the proposal, but that is the conditions. It is true that ten parties were elected last time, but is it not also true that there were two parties that were right, really close to the threshold? I think they achieved 1.7%. and 1.8%. of the votes. They were then not elected, and thus there are 153 000 votes which are somehow not represented in this Chamber. In principle, I would like to ask the rapporteur if she does not think that it would be much healthier for our democracy if the 153 000 people were also in some way represented here in the people's regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175017	It is the case that it is up to the individual free person to cross where you want to, and I actually think that there is a very large, wide crowd of people both what we saw in 2019 and what is about to form into the forthcoming parliamentary elections. One might then actually ask the opposite question: is there perhaps something that is going a little wrong with our democracy if you cannot find oneself within the parties that are running? So I think that it should be up to the individual somewhere, and I think that there is ample opportunity to get his opinions and opinions across by ticking his box. That is the choice that the individual must make. We have also seen examples of parties that come in the Folketing and that actually do quite well and stand even stronger. And what is up to the individual party is precisely to fight for its opinions and opinions and get them beyond the ramp and make itself indispensable, so that there are others who want to cross there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175120	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175122	I think the debate is really funny. I often encounter that argument from the political parties: don't make free greens, because it is going to be a waste of votes. And in today's debate I have the opposite argument. Now that we are talking about the electoral union, I think it was Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, who said, when Enhedslisten was talking about electoral federations, that we will have an unruly Parliament if we introduce this with electoral federations. When we make this proposal, it is in fact because we believe that it will give a much better representation in the Folketing than the one we have today. It was not a question; it was just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175208	Well, I'm just saying thank you for that. I have no further comments either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175223	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175224	Thank you, President. Congratulations to the new minister. In the Danish People's Party we look forward to working together. We had a very good working relationship with the outgoing minister. Now to the proposal, which I think is somewhat loosely formulated and also a little hastily drawn up: a little time could have been spent successfully on both advantages and disadvantages, and a little time could also have been spent on what the consequences of the proposal would actually be. Because the consequences will be the dismantling of the large circle and the individual circle, and in return Denmark will become a large constituency. That's one of them. Therefore, there are electoral federations in the municipalities and to the European Parliament. For the European Parliament, Denmark is a large constituency and in the municipalities the municipality is a large constituency. The advantage of the current system is that the candidates are local. They have been chosen for example. a large circle on Funen, and they are then set up in a circle. If we have one large constituency, we can risk a celebrity democracy. Those we know from television are also those who are elected wherever they come from. You could say that's what you want. I think that would be too bad. I am pleased that democracy and candidates are linked to the local. Israel has one large constituency. Experience could be gained from Israel with their electoral system. We would like to be involved in discussing this in committee. Well, we are not rejecting it blankly. We would like to learn more about the experience of other countries, and I think that Mr. Sikandar Siddique has to launch through the committee. We'd like that. We want to learn more about this and discuss the advantages and disadvantages. The last thing I would actually just like to say, and that is not ridiculous, but if there had been an opportunity for electoral federations, there would have been an opportunity for Stram Course to have come in. I don't know if that's why, sir. Mr Sikandar Siddique has tabled this motion for a resolution. But I just want you to know that. That would be the result of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175447	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175450	It must then be because Stram Kurs entered into an electoral union with the Danish People's Party or New Citizens' Party, because in order to be elected, it takes some to form part of an electoral union. So no, I don't really think that Stram Course had been elected unless they had entered into an electoral union with the Danish People's Party such a bit teasing reply back.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175514	We have no intention of entering into an electoral union, because we will be elected without it. But small parties like Free Greens, Straight Courses and others might have an interest in joining an electoral union to pull each other in. I shall not be able to deny that small extreme parties would do so. We have no interest in doing such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175536	Sir. Sikandar Siddique apostates. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur, because there are no more brief comments. I do not see any rapporteur from the New Civil or Liberal Alliance, so that is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504175553	Thank you, President. Here too, from welcome to the new minister. It is clear that some of me would like to vote in favour of this proposal to introduce electoral federations into parliamentary elections, because that would make it much easier for the alternative to rejoin the Folketing. But if I just take a step back and try to consider it a little more objectively, I do not really know whether I think it is good for democracy with electoral union. This will probably mean that more parties with two or three people and more individual parties will enter the Folketing, and the latter is something I know something about. When the election comes, I am the Danish politician, who has been the only parliamentarian for a party for most years; whoever has sat second long ago was an exclaimer from the SF, Anders Storgaard, who sat for the Peace Political People's Party in 1964. He lasted four months. I don't want this to sound like whining. I'm gonna be on time, and I'm gonna help get the alternative to survive the next election, but I'm actually not gonna recommend this to anyone. This means, for example, that we have over 50 rapporteurs, and that, of course, makes it impossible to reach all the negotiations. Sometimes there are negotiations in three ministries at once and, as you know, one can only be one place at a time, there will be negotiations which are prevented from participating in almost every day. And I guess that's not really the point when the Danes choose politicians for the Folketing. I think that the legislative machinery of the Folketing is too large for a whole party with a single mandate in the long run. Of course, a lot can be achieved through tough priorities. The last time it was measured, for example, it turned out that I am present at 90%. of all the votes in this Chamber. And I have to say that the ministries and ministers are very helpful in ensuring the participation of the alternative in a great many agreements, even though I am a single parliamentarian. We have also appointed ten external rapporteurs who keep me in the fight in all their areas. We have a hard-working staff with a lot of trusted activists around the country who work really hard on the Alternative's issues. But I see it as a necessary evil, which I believe can be the exception when one has come into our position, until a choice, and not as a rule. I do not think it is appropriate, for example, to have a debate on this subject. are five one-person parties trying to keep up with this big law machine. I have my doubts as to whether people can stick to it personally, and I also have doubts as to whether it is good for democracy if it becomes a rule instead of an exception. So the alternative is not going to vote in favour of making electoral federations for parliamentary elections, but we recognise, on the other hand, the problem that the proposer is trying to address with this resolution, namely a waste of votes. For example, as stated by the Free Greens, 153,923 votes were wasted in the last parliamentary elections, because the Danes voted for parties that did not come into the Folketing, and that is not appropriate for people's ability to participate in democracy. But we believe that it can be solved in other ways, such as they. in Australia and Ireland, where candidates are given priority by figures. You can therefore vote for several candidates in a priority order, and if the first one does not come in, you decide who gets your vote. But even if we do not support the motion for a resolution, we would like to enter into discussions on how we can organise the Danish electoral system wiser and smarter so that more people will have the opportunity to access this floor through their vote. In Denmark we are compared to other countries at the low end with a threshold of 2%. It gives four mandates, and it is the least that needs to be done before we think that the parliamentary tasks in the Folketing can be properly carried out in the long term. I know that a parliamentary group of four also has a crazy busy life and is doing a huge job, and you cannot take that away from them, but believe me, when you are just a single mandate, it seems like a luxury if you could have three colleagues. That is what the alternative will follow in the next parliamentary elections, i.e. 2%. and four mandates as a minimum.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180012	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180016	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, at the beginning of his speech, the rapporteur said that one would take a step back and look objectively at it. I now think it was a very subjective approach to the proposal. But, of course, I recognise the experience of the rapporteur as a single army in the Folketing. The purpose of this proposal is to create a wider representation and combat the loss of voice, and there are Free Greens ready to look at whether there are other ways we can do it. So I just want to sign and say thank you. Let us look at how we can strengthen democracy in the further and future work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180105	When I said this with objectivity, I thought it very, very tempting to vote in favour of a proposal which would make it easier for the alternative to come to parliament. But then I tried to step back and see if it was wise for democracy. I think it is a very, very important issue that the Green Group raises, and that is also why I sign by trying to find out whether we can make it smarter, possibly with the Australian model. Whatever the case, we want to discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180134	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we go to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180157	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you for a good debate, colleagues. 153,000 votes • so many citizens' votes were wasted in the last parliamentary elections. Our representative democracy has several challenges. Today I will address one of them. At the last parliamentary elections, we made an historic waste of voice. More than 150,000 Danes did not benefit; we cannot be satisfied with this in a representative democracy, because all votes should be heard. When so many citizens become voiceless, it creates distrust in society, and there is already a great deal of mistrust in politicians. On election day, we must mark our mark at the party with which we agree most. All other factors that influence your choice should be wiped out as far as possible. Too many people do not dare to tick lots that are at risk of falling below the threshold. We must therefore introduce electoral federations in parliamentary elections in the same way as we do in municipal and regional elections. Citizens should know that their voices will not be wasted if the party that best represents them is not elected. Our proposal is to make our democracy more diverse. Diversity is important in a democracy because democracy exists for the people. If parts of the people cannot see themselves in our democracy, how can we call ourselves democratic? More diversity means more diversity among the parties. Because we see that many parties stand outside Christiansborg and knock to get in, but they are rejected at the door. Most of those parties have a part of the population in their backs, so in reality it is the people that we refuse to enter democracy. And yes, we have relatively many parties in the Folketing already, compared to what Denmark is used to. But we in the Free Greens think this is only good, because the world has changed and our society has changed. Today there are many issues that mark the voices of the people. That is everything from tax policy, health policy, climate policy and anti-racism to dozens of other issues. So, of course, there will be more parties when the people feel that our present parties may not contain them. Our system must be adapted to the people and not the other way around. Furthermore, there is something undemocratic about the fact that the large parties are getting votes from those voters who may not be able to vote for any of the small parties because of a waste of their votes. It centers the power of the established parties. Let us choose parties by whom we agree most, and not by whom we are sure to enter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180504	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180507	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, I promised the rapporteur of the Free Greens that I would ask a question, so I will live up to that. I would like to ask: does the Greens believe that a party can become too small? You can also turn it around and ask: are there any challenges if you as a party have only one single mandate, which means that you may not be able to represent the people well enough when you sit in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180546	I think that is a good question. We do not see in the Free Greens that this may be a problem, as my colleague Mr. Torsten Gejl expressed it or was it another rapporteur who expressed it? We do not think so in the Greens. We understand that the more votes represented, the more people represented, the better it is. However, in order to answer the question, so that it does not sound like extravagance, it may immediately be that there is a party that is too small, but if we start from mandates, a single mandate is not a problem for the Free Greens. We believe that it will strengthen our democracy. We believe that more people would participate in democracy because one would feel heard; one would feel represented. I hope I answered the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180648	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180650	Yes, I am just trying to learn a little bit more about the thinking of the Free Greens in relation to the resolution as well. But when I experience everyday life here at Christiansborg, I often hear this because if you are a very small party, you may also be very busy and have a really hard time reaching things. That is why it is also so in the blue block that we try to help each other. However, can the rapporteur of the Free Greens not see that it could be a problem if there were, let us say, 25 parties here in the Danish Parliament who had very few seats each?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180738	There are three of us, and I can safely tell you that we are incredibly busy, so I recognize that you are busy. I think you just have to disconnect the two discussions. For us it is not about, which has also been an argument that has been put forward today, that it will be harder to make agreements; that it with Mr. Brian Mikkelsen's words become an unruly Parliament. For us, it is about strengthening democracy, strengthening representation. And in relation to what the rapporteur has just said about working together in a blue block, I would say that I think we can do that in a parliament where there are far more parties than there are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180820	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180822	Thank you so much. I think it is rather a tendency and the rapporteur must excuse me for moving up on the very high moral horse in this debate too. The rapporteur speaks of distrust in relation to the people's regime, and he speaks of the fact that everyone should feel represented. And I hope that the rapporteur does not regard it as a joke in any way, but now it has become a broad democratic debate, as we have, and we have just heard a very exciting speech and a rapporteur's speech by Mr Tugendhat. Torsten Gejl, who tells me how hard it is to be yourself. So I would just like to know what ideas went through the rapporteur's head when, shortly after the parliamentary elections on 5 June 2019, together with four others, he joined the party which had helped to vote the rapporteur into the Danish Parliament. Does the rapporteur not believe that many voters had voted for the rapporteur's old party, which no longer felt represented by the vote of the party, among other things. was involved in carrying the rapporteur into the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504180927	In 2019, at the election when I was elected, the alternative was halved. The only place the alternative was in my constituency, in Brøndby. The only place on the map where there was green was in the constituency where I stood for the alternative. Without wishing to enter into a longer discussion about why this could be read in the paper, I can say that there was a political change, and we took the consequence of it and went because I wanted to represent the voters who had voted for me in the constituency and the line I had promised them, that is, what I had said to them before an election, I would also do after an election. And that's what made me leave. So I actually believe and also hope that the result of the elections and the continuity of what I said about before elections, during elections and after elections, bearing in mind that it ultimately creates confidence. But, of course, I cannot rule out some who will be disappointed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181033	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181035	That is why I think this debate is exciting, and the rapporteur must by no means misunderstand that I think so. In fact, I really think it is exciting, and that is also why I signed the Enhedslisten's rapporteur with my own opinion or at least tried to make a nuanced speech. Because I really think that this democracy debate is bigger than just electoral union for a parliamentary election. For it is also the fact that the number of members of the parties is decreasing; it is also the fact that the municipalities have grown, while at the same time we can see that fewer people are running for the municipal council, and we can also see that more politicians in here are getting stressed because they have a lot of work to do. So I really think the rapporteur should finally sign for it, I think, progressive and good debate we have had and then rejoice that so many people want to discuss this issue broadly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181122	The rapporteur can be quite sure of that, and I think I also started my speech by saying that it was an extremely good debate. I think it has been a good debate and some of the things the rapporteur is raising here about stress that what I think it is 4%. of the Danish people, who are today members of a party, and many other challenges, which are of course our democracy, and the developments that are there, are clearly something that we need to talk about. And I also hope, in fact, that this proposal, apart from the fact that it has given rise to a lot of democracy talk here today, will also give rise to a lot of good talk about democracy and elections in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181158	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181200	In any case, this has given us an opportunity in the alternative to think a little about how we can prevent so many people from voting without having any influence. But I also think that if more people come in, it will create greater diversity. However, if there are many with just one mandate or two mandates, I am thinking that it is difficult to keep up with, and the rapporteur sees that as well. The rapporteur's party has three mandates, we have one mandate, we also have a party like the Liberal Alliance with three mandates and new citizens with four, and they are not here for this debate. There are a great many debates in which we do not participate. We can't make it. We don't stand a chance. There are also many debates in which we do not participate. Does the rapporteur not also have this feeling of never quite reaching it and regretting not being able to participate in many key debates, which also shows how difficult it is to really represent your party properly, if at least you are under four mandates?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181257	Yes, and I fully acknowledge that, and also when we were five when we were together, we thought we should run fast. So there are clearly some dilemmas there. But there are also dilemmas, on the other hand, with regard to representation, to whether you feel represented, to whether our democracy with the very strong established parties embraces the whole political debate, as it were. Are our citizens today, who live here, all represented in our democracy? Or do we really have many spectators for democracy? So, with recognition of what the rapporteur is saying here, I just think that there are dilemmas on both sides, and that is why we need to have this discussion and hopefully find the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181347	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181349	Yes, and this is simply an important discussion. What does the rapporteur think about the proposal that they are driving in Australia and Ireland that we can give priority to the ballot paper, that is to say that we can vote for two or three candidates, and that if the one on which we vote first does not come in, then it is the next one that applies, so that, like yourself, we have much more control over who it is that comes in, if one's first priority does not come in, where in an electoral federation it is sometimes the opposite, where people feel that I thought I voted for the SF, but I have actually helped a radical approach? And it is not because there is something wrong with any of them, but it is sometimes the case that people do not know at all that they are really helping others whom they have not voted for at all. What does the rapporteur think of the Australian model?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181432	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181433	We've been looking at a lot of things when we were discussing this, and there are exciting initiatives you can do. Then why are we landing on an electoral union? Yeah, we could have landed on other models, too. The important thing is we're gonna have this conversation. For us, it is two things that are fundamental, and it is not whether this will be easier or it will be harder to make agreements. For us, it is about two things: a broader representation and combating the loss of votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181509	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181511	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I take note of the fact that some of the points that we would like to address here on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament are, of course, the distrust of the political system. In any case, it has been raised to that level, and I was actually very affected by the speech made by Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl held. For there, like a life from the front-page report on what it is like to be a simple man and to cover so many areas, I was impressed by the fact that I am sitting in a parliamentary group of 14, and yet I did not know whether I could actually be here in the Chamber today because there was something else going on in my second rapporteur's area in a ministry. I'm actually gonna ask you if mr. Sikandar Siddique does not also think it is quite important to address the distrust that could arise among the electorate if you cannot do the work and represent the people who have actually voted for you if you, as politicians, are not enough, and especially if there are many politicians who, in fact, cannot do their jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181620	Well, that's what I said, so there can be different dilemmas. But I just believe that if you change a system, you will also change the dynamics and that you will also change expectations. If we look at the municipal, we will often find that the electoral federations that are entered into are between parties which are not widely founded or which do not have many points of reference, but that it is often some that have a few points of reference. And should they make such an electoral union, and if we follow the logic and pattern and such a party is elected, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the subject of anti-racism. So what I'm trying to say with this is that I believe in changing your system, you also change the dynamics and expectations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181713	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181727	The debate is open, and we shall first give the floor to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504181753	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Free Greens for having tabled the motion for a resolution. With the motion for a resolution, the Free Greens are calling on the government to submit a legislative proposal by the end of 2022 to extend the electoral right to the Folketing. With the proposal, the Free Greens want to remove Danish citizenship, that is to say Danish citizenship, as a voting requirement for parliamentary elections and instead demand legal residence in Denmark for the last four years prior to the election day. Such a proposal is contrary to the Constitution and will therefore require a change in the constitution. The rules on voting rights are laid down in section 29 of the Constitution, which is supplemented by the rules of the Act on election to the Folketing. This follows, among other things. of Paragraph 29 (3) of the Constitution. 1, anyone who has Danish nationality, permanent residence in the Kingdom and who has reached the age of 18, shall have the right to vote in the Folketing unless he or she has been deprived of his or her age. In other words, it is a condition for being able to vote to the Folketing that you are a Danish citizen. As I have said, the motion for a resolution is intended to amend that condition. I do not think there are grounds for doing so. First of all, it is my view that it is quite special to vote for parliamentary elections and thus have an influence on who should sit on this matter and make decisions on behalf of Denmark. It must therefore also require a very special connection with Denmark to be able to vote for a parliamentary election. For this reason, I think it is both reasonable and reasonable that the right to vote in the Folketing should be reserved for Danish nationals. The question of who can acquire Danish citizenship and therefore also vote in the elections is decided on the basis of the legislation in force at any time. According to that legislation on how to acquire citizenship, there are different ways of achieving equal citizenship. It can be acquired by birth, by the subsequent marriage of the parents, by adoption and by naturalisation, i.e. by law. In this context, I would like to emphasise that the government concluded the latest agreement on citizenship on 20 April 2021, together with the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. With the agreement, the requirements for applicants for Danish citizenship were tightened, so that the requirements reflect the significant declaration of confidence of the Danish community when granting a person a Danish citizenship. Secondly, a change in the rules governing the right to vote in the Constitution will require a change in the constitution. After all, the Constitution has a very special role to play in Danish society by setting a framework for our democracy and our fundamental rights. I therefore believe that we must take a very mature view before considering proposing a change to the constitution, because it also involves a very significant process. Among other things, you have to... I should like to make a few comments on this matter. So it is also quite extensive in terms of process. To sum up, as I have said, this presupposes a change in the constitution. And in the government at the same time, we believe that it is quite reasonable to demand that one should be a Danish citizen if one is to vote for a parliamentary election, for the reason that it is important to be allowed to vote for the parliamentary elections. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182137	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182141	Thank you, Minister. In Denmark, we have a tradition of extending the right to vote, so to speak, to include more and more people in democracy. We did so in 1915 when we gave women and servants the right to vote. Then we did it again in 1953, when we again increased turnout or included people, among others. Greenlandic citizens. Now we are just in a situation in our society where there are about 440,000 people in our society who live here, work here, have lived here for at least 4 years and for many people for 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, 50 years, and then have children here. We read recently that ten years ago it was one in twenty children who were born in Denmark without a Danish citizenship; today it is one in ten children. And it is a democratic problem that we have so many citizens who live here but are spectators of democracy. So we should not follow our example, what can we say, examples from the past and recognise once again that we have come to the point where we need to extend electoral law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182258	No, I do not think we can compare the historical examples here with the situation we have today. I believe that the extension of the electoral law that we have implemented in the past has been about ensuring, instead, that there was reasonableness and equality between the sexes, for example, which fortunately followed the developments that history took in those years. That was very, very sensible. With regard to the right to vote today, many of the people mentioned by the rapporteur have the opportunity to vote in local elections, so that decisions which are substantially closer to the citizen can be influenced. However, I believe, as I also said in the speech, that it is essential that we maintain that it is something very special to have the opportunity to vote in parliamentary elections, and that is why I think it should also be reserved for Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182400	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182402	Then I certainly need to hear the Minister what the Minister and the government think they will do with this unfortunate development, because the Minister must agree that this is an unfortunate development. So, the number of citizens who live and who are born here but cannot participate in a parliamentary election is growing. More and more people cannot participate in democracy, cannot vote in a parliamentary election, precisely the important, decisive election. And where will we be in 10 years or 20 years? Do we have so many people, really, if you make a projection outside democracy? How many people are suddenly outside democracy? And what will you do to include these people in democracy so that they can vote in elections and help influence the society in which they and their children live?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182445	There is, of course, a context to the issue of our foreign policy. It is clear that it is essential that we have control over that part too. It is, of course, a prerequisite for the question as to how that figure will develop. I would insist that it is the case that many of the people referred to by the rapporteur have the opportunity to influence democracy in local elections. So the fact that you're a spectator, I don't think you're right. And I believe that taking into account the argument that voting to the Folketing is something very special and that it should therefore be reserved for people with Danish citizenship is the most important consideration in this debate, although I admit that there may be different considerations in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182531	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182533	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech and also congratulations on the job. I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree that there is a problem of principle in relation to the fact that there is a large group of people who are unable to vote in a parliamentary election, when we are also talking about people who are legally and permanently resident in the country, who have their daily activities here and who will live their entire lives in Denmark, that they then do not have the opportunity to take part in an election. If you want to avoid a change in the constitution, you can, I think, remove some of the quite shameful restrictions that were made in the agreement on 20 April 2021. This means, of course, that there may be a person who has committed a criminal act which, although not acceptable, is, after all, a criminal act which may have happened very early in life and which is thus also permanently excluded from voting in a parliamentary election in the country in which he lives and lives. Or it may be some of those who come with ptsd and who do not have the opportunity to participate in the citizenship test or take Danish exam 3, which is also excluded because of their disability and cannot participate in a parliamentary election. Is that not, in principle, unfair?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182650	In other words, as far as the last group is concerned, we do have a number of provisions on aids for the tests that are mentioned, which make it possible for there to be different possibilities. In fact, I believe that it is reasonable that there is also the distinction that you can be here permanently, but that if you achieve the very special connection with Denmark, it is to be granted Danish citizenship, you will also have the opportunity to vote in the parliamentary elections. And then I think there is the point when you draw the picture of what democratic rights you have as an individual, if you are here permanently, and I think it is important to include in this context that you have the opportunity to participate in democracy by voting in municipal and regional elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182739	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182741	But is it a fair sanction to say that because, for example, we have to say that we have to do something about it? has committed something criminal or because you have a disability, are you deprived of the right to vote in a parliamentary election in the country in which you live and live? In other words, it is not a sanction that we normally impose on people who have acquired citizenship; they are not, after all, deprived of the right to vote. Is it reasonable to impose a sanction on someone to say that because you have committed an act or because you have a disability, you are not entitled to vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182813	The short answer is that I believe and the government believes that it is reasonable that there should be a link between citizenship and the right to vote, and that is, of course, a connection which is difficult to come to terms with. It is a context that is probably best explained by or is argued for by emphasising here that voting for a parliamentary election is something very special, as well as having citizenship is something very special, and I think that the link between the two sizes is reasonable and reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182844	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182847	Yes, thank you. I think that the Minister made a very good speech, also by emphasising here that it is for Danish citizens to vote in parliamentary elections. I very much agree with that. But I also think that we have a problem when so many people are outside democracy because they find it difficult to obtain Danish citizenship. That is what I think we should focus on by changing the rules on permanent residence permits and citizenship, so that we can get more people to participate actively in elections as well. Does the Minister not think that it is a problem that there are some people who have been born here or have come here as children, but who only, when they are well past the age of 30, because they have a focus on education and all the things that we think are important in order to integrate into society, achieve Danish citizenship and thus far later than the rest of us are allowed to participate in democracy by voting in parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504182951	I think that there are a number of points which advocate that we should have quite strict requirements as to who we are distributing citizenship to. After all, it is a question of promoting integration; it is a question of ensuring that the people we give a Danish citizenship meet requirements that mean that they have a very, very significant connection with Denmark. I think that is important. And that group, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique spoke of earlier, for the vast majority of people, if they are permanently resident, will have the opportunity to obtain such an association with Denmark that they can obtain citizenship and thus also obtain the full democratic package, in other words that, in addition to being able to vote in municipal elections, they have the opportunity to vote in parliamentary elections. I am happy to admit, and this is a confession case, that there are strict requirements for citizenship, and I think that is sensible for reasons of integration and for other reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183053	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183056	I think that is fair to admit, because this may be a political disagreement. But I would also like to ask the Minister to take such a genuine view of the fact that there are people who are doing everything they can to integrate, to train themselves and to participate in the labour market, in terms of languages and so on, but who are still being delayed. So, is there not a democratic problem there when it is that you are delayed in obtaining the same right as everyone else, the moment we turn 18? Because I fully agree with the Minister that this is different from the 1915 amendment of the Basic Law, because it was about equality in a different way, but here there is an unequal position compared to the time of life at which the right to vote is acquired.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183148	The challenge here is surely that the right to vote cannot be granted retroactively. In other words, if we could predict which people would eventually acquire Danish citizenship, they could be granted the right to vote earlier. It is not possible to do that, and I think it is reasonable that we should link the two sizes because voting in elections to the Parliament and now it is going to be a bit of a repetition. I think it is something special, and I think it makes sense to link it to Danish citizenship. And since it is not possible to do so retroactively, the weighting of my arguments cannot go beyond that challenge. It is an emphasis that we must make every effort to obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183236	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and it is first the Socialist rapporteur Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183247	Well, thank you so much for being allowed to speak. For the sake of good order, I would like to start by saying that I am speaking on behalf of the Social Democrat domestic rapporteur Birgitte Vind, who unfortunately was not able to be here today, and that is why I am a substitute for Mrs Birgitte Vind. I'm gonna say hello to you all a lot of times. We have to deal with a motion for a resolution tabled by the Green Group in the European Parliament. The proposal will remove the condition of Danish citizenship in parliamentary elections and instead require prior legal residence in Denmark for the last 4 years prior to election day. This corresponds to the voting requirement for third-country nationals in municipal and regional elections, but it will require a constitutional change in relation to Paragraph 29 (3) of the Constitution. 1, since it is provided in the Constitution that it requires Danish citizenship to be able to vote to the Folketing. When I myself am a member of the Danish Parliament who has school classes and other delegations visiting, we often go out here in the Vandrehallen.I think that's something that the rest of you do too and there we always visit the constitution that lies there. I think this is something very special; Danish democracy is something very special; and achieving elections to the Folketing is something very special. There I am in line with the Minister, namely that one must, of course, be a Danish citizen in order to be able to vote for the Folketing. In the social democracy we see it as something very special, something very special to be able to vote for the legislative assembly. It is the legislative power, and it plays a very, very special role in our people's rule. That is why we believe that there should be a strong link with Denmark, and we also believe that it is quite reasonable to lay down some requirements as to who can vote for the Danish Parliament, and that is why we also believe that it is sensible to be a Danish citizen in order to be able to vote. This does not, of course, mean that the citizens who live in Denmark, who do not have Danish citizenship, will never be able to vote for the Danish Parliament. If you achieve Danish citizenship, which is really something unique, something great, then you have the opportunity to vote for the Folketing as long as you meet those requirements. With these comments, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I also think, if I may be quite honest, that it is very far-reaching to put forward proposals in which we should, in fact, also make a constitutional amendment. I think that this requires much more preparation, and I also think that this is something that is being done in very rare cases, and that is why, on a Wednesday evening in the Parliamentary Assembly, I also think that all honour and respect for the proposer is that it is a well-known far-reaching, in order to be completely honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183610	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183614	So now it is the Legal Secretariat that has decided that it should be dealt with here on Wednesday evening, it is not us. Now I have been a member of the Folketing for three years, and the Socialists and all the other established parties have repeatedly said that those who come here must participate in democracy. There has been talk of democratic values and integration. And every time we have talked about the difficulty of obtaining Danish citizenship, we have been told that it is simply a privilege to obtain the Danish passport. That is why we think in the Free Greens: fine, if it is a privilege to have Danish passports, which should not be easy and few, and at the same time we want people to participate in democracy, so that we get people into the community, then we have to separate the two things. That is why we are putting this forward. So it may well be that the rapporteur believes that it is far-reaching, but it is simply because a political majority from here on the one hand has made it extremely difficult to get a Danish citizenship and the figures show that more and more people are outside and at the same time say that they want people to participate in democracy. But if you cannot vote in a parliamentary election, it is difficult to participate in democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183730	I can answer that very, very clearly, so that there is no mistake: it must never happen and I repeat: never ever become such that you can pull a Danish passport into a vending machine. It must be difficult to obtain Danish citizenship. It is something unique, it is something unique, and of course it is not something that should be easy. Next, it is the Danish legislature that makes the legislation for the Danish Empire, and it is of course Danish citizens who must help to set the legislative power minimum every four years when there are elections to the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183808	Sir. Sikandar Siddique for a further brief comment? No, he's gonna drop out. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183818	Thank you. Do you have to be a Danish citizen to vote for the parliamentary elections in Denmark? Indeed, we in the Left believe that, and fortunately the rules are the same today. That is why we in the Left also want to uphold the Constitution's provision that the right to vote in parliamentary elections presupposes Danish citizenship. In fact, we believe that it is a perfectly natural condition for voting and voting to follow citizenship. In my view, it is a very special thing to vote for a parliamentary election and, above all, to have an influence on who makes the decisions here in Denmark. That is why it is reasonable and also logical, in my view, that it should require a special link with Denmark to have access to the ballot boxes in a parliamentary election. For this reason too, we believe, and it is reasonable that it is reserved exclusively for Danish citizens. At the same time, the proposal made here by the Free Greens is very intrusive, because it requires a change in the constitution. This is why we cannot support either the amendment of the Constitution or the motion for a resolution tabled by the Green Group in the European Parliament. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183937	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504183941	Thank you to the rapporteur. I also mentioned this to the Minister in this area, namely that one in ten children born in Denmark are born without a Danish passport. Right now we have 440,000 citizens who live here, work here, pay taxes here, but who cannot participate, cannot vote in a parliamentary election. Everyone in this room must surely agree with me that if there is anything that supports us in this society, it is our democracy, and if there is anything we want, it is getting people to participate in democracy. What is the rapporteur thinking about this development? Ten years ago it was every 20 children, now it is every 10 children, so what does the rapporteur think about that development? Where will we be in 10 years' time, 20 years from now, if we continue to maintain the rules as they are and the number just gets bigger and bigger? What kind of democracy do we have with a group of people who sit and legislate, and then there is a huge group that lives here, lives here, pays taxes here, but cannot participate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184046	I would say that you have the opportunity to apply for citizenship. I think that is important to emphasise. We can then say that, of course, we can also participate in democracy in many different ways: we can get involved; for that matter we can also join political parties and so on. So there are many ways to influence democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184116	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184117	It is true that there are different ways of participating in democracy. If you look at developments, you see that it is becoming harder and harder to obtain Danish citizenship, and if you look at the figures at the same time, you see that the group of citizens who live here but cannot participate is getting bigger and bigger. I do not think I was given an answer to the question, so I would like to ask the rapporteur one more time: what kind of society does the rapporteur see if this development continues; where will we be in ten years' time, where will we be in 20 years' time? If development continues as it is doing right now, what kind of democracy are we going to experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184156	Now, frankly, I cannot predict the future; I do not think any of us can, and that may be good enough, but I think that what we have in Danish society and what we have created is something we must safeguard. In fact, I think that, when you have the opportunity, and so you have, in order to also seek Danish citizenship, there are really opportunities for achieving it, so that you can also be involved in influencing democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184231	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no one from the SF, and then it is the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184248	Thank you very much, President. We have here a motion for a resolution from the Green Group, and thank you again for bringing it forward here. I think Wednesday evening is a perfect time to have a debate on our democracy, so I am very happy to do so, even if, as Mr. Mr Sikandar Siddique here proposes, in fact, a change in the constitution in order to achieve the purpose of the motion for a resolution. I think you can do that if you think there is something wrong with the Constitution. But we in the Radical Left feel that it is actually quite right that we should be a Danish citizen in order to be able to vote in the parliamentary elections. It is a special thing to become a Danish citizen, it is a special thing, and I am sure that we all feel in here that we should go up and use our right to vote for a parliamentary election and really exercise our influence. But that does not mean that I do not think we have a problem, and that is also what was a little in my question when the Minister stood up here. The problem is not that one should be a Danish citizen in order to be able to vote for the parliamentary elections; I think that the problem is that we have far too strict rules for obtaining permanent residence permits, which are the prerequisites for obtaining Danish citizenship, and that we have far too strict rules for obtaining Danish citizenship, and that is where I think we should put in place, that is where I think we should have moved on some things, made some changes to the law, so that it is easier to obtain permanent residence permits so that it is easier to obtain Danish citizenship, and especially for all those who are doing everything we ask them to take an active part in association work, which is of course another way of participating in democracy, taking an education and actively taking part in the labour market. So from this point of view, I would just like to say that we recognise the problem, but we do not think that the amendment of the constitution here proposed is the right solution. On the contrary, it is changing the rules on citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184504	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184507	Thank you to the rapporteur. I also know, of course, that the Radical Left believes that the citizenship rules are too cumbersome. The reason why we are putting this forward here is that I have been told over and over again for three years that democracy is absolutely essential, that people have to integrate and that people have to participate in democracy, but, on the other hand, we also see that citizenship rules are making it harder and harder to participate in democracy. And yes, you can participate in democracy in the local association, but in other words, friends, in participating in democracy, it is the most important thing, of course, to be able to vote in a parliamentary election and to decide what your child's future should look like and what your country should look like. So that is why we have tabled the proposal. Time and again, all parties have said: getting that citizenship is quite unique. Okay, but you want to be involved in democracy, so let's separate those things. Otherwise, if the rapporteur can press Mette Frederiksen to relax the citizenship rules, we are willing to abandon the proposal and support a relaxation of the citizenship rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184615	I do not think it was so much a comment for me and my speech as it was for other colleagues, because we do not disagree with the problem, but maybe we disagree with the solution, and that is an honest matter. I and the Radical Left are doing everything we can to push for new rules on citizenship and changed rules on permanent residence permits, which are the prerequisites for obtaining Danish citizenship. That is why I continue to mention this permanent residence, because the right to vote in the Folketing is not granted for permanent residence permits, but it is still a basic requirement for obtaining citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184656	Sir. Sikandar Siddique? Apostates. Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504184712	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Free Greens for raising this debate too. Now we have two debates right on top of each other, which are basically about at least a little the same thematics: the one about how we extend democratic rights and how we ensure that as many as possible are able to participate in democracy and ensure a high level of representativeness in the Folketing. I also think that this debate is interesting because, as Mr. Sikandar Siddique himself also mentioned, since the 1849 Basic Law has been about gradually extending democratic rights. In the 1849 Basic Law only men I think it was wealthy men over 40 years of age who had the right to vote. And at least back then, they had what they called the seven f's that were excluded from the electoral law. I don't remember them all, but at least it was frustraters and folks, folks and fools and poor and criminals and so strangers. And there we have gradually made sure that we have included them and ensured that they too have the right to vote. It can be said that the last group that is actually left is, of course, those who were then characterised as strangers who still do not have the full civil rights and therefore the opportunity to participate in parliamentary elections. I think that is a very real problem to point out, and that is why we are in favour of the motion for a resolution. I would say that the appeal I have in relation to the proposal is that I think that we should basically look at how we can make it easier to obtain citizenship, so that it would not require a change in the constitution. We could take that too, but then it really seemed more important to ensure that we changed the way we allocate citizenship, so that it was just an administrative act rather than something that takes place here in the Folketing through a legislative proposal. So I would actually rather be able to extend democratic rights in this way and ensure that citizens who are legally and permanently resident in the country have the opportunity to participate in parliamentary elections. I think that would actually be a better way to go, and it would also be a way where we could start to take the first steps to ensure that we had the circular changed to make it easier to obtain citizenship. But with that being said, I think there is something positive about this because it points precisely to the problem that we have a larger and larger proportion of citizens in this country who live here and have permanent and legal residence and who, for many, will live their entire lives in Denmark. It is fundamentally unreasonable that they do not have the opportunity to participate in parliamentary elections. I myself mentioned earlier, in my question to the Minister, that a citizen who, perhaps very early in his life, at the age of 16 or 17, has committed crime, can be sanctioned by the fact that he can never take part in a parliamentary election. A refugee who has arrived, who has been affected by ptsd, and therefore does not have the opportunity to take the citizenship test or Danish examination 3 may also risk not obtaining citizenship ■ otherwise contrary to the Disability Convention. But that's how the rules are today. That is basically an absurdity, and that is what makes there the group that Mr. Sikandar Siddique also mentioned, of almost half a million Danes who are legally and permanently resident but who are unable to participate in parliamentary elections. I think there are some other things we could do to resolve this issue which would be more obvious, but I recognise that the resolution tabled by the Greens will certainly be a way of ending it. That is why we also want to take a positive view of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185111	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185114	Thank you to the rapporteur. I was just curious because now the rapporteur also said in relation to the previous proposal that it would be a good idea to take a positive view of the proposal. Does this mean that we will vote green on the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185128	Yeah, I think that's what it does as a starting point. I am hardly going to be in committee now. Now, in connection with the previous proposal, I mentioned that it is possible for us to arrive at something in relation to a report. We can hardly do that in relation to this, and when we can't, we're going to vote green on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185149	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185159	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution seeks to remove Danish citizenship as a voting requirement for parliamentary elections and instead to demand prior legal residence in Denmark for the last four years prior to the election day. The authors compare this with the fact that it corresponds to the voting requirement of a third-country national in municipal and regional elections. There is a difference between the two choices, and that is certainly the way forward. It makes very good sense to be able to participate in the local democracy where you live and work. My old Swedish mother has been doing that for over 60 years. She has no Danish citizenship, but lives quite well in Helsingør and has participated in local democracy. The citizens' and the close democracy we must indeed safeguard, but it is something very special to vote for a parliamentary election and thereby influence who, under the auspices of the Folketing, can make decisions for Denmark, with great implications, of course. And here we stand by the fact that it takes a very special connection with Denmark to be able to vote in parliamentary elections. So we are talking here about our national parliament. The right to vote in elections must be reserved to Danish citizens. A Danish citizenship is something very special. We must take good care of this, which is why we also tightened the requirements to become a Danish citizen together with the government, the Left and the Liberal Alliance in April 2021. We set, among other things. focus on the Danish values, and this must simply be a prerequisite for having participation on such an important issue as putting our Parliament together and determining the direction of our country. The Conservative People's Party cannot therefore support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185343	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185346	Thank you to the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur recognise that, as the rules of citizenship have been tightened, the group of citizens who cannot vote in a parliamentary election in Denmark has grown larger?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185402-2	No, I don't accept that. In other words, there is a reason why we are tightening up the requirements for Danish citizenship. And it is possible to obtain Danish citizenship in Denmark today. But there are some demands to be met, and that is indeed important to us. It's about the Danish values, and it's about wanting the Danish society. It's about some tests you have to go through, and we think that's quite fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185430	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185432	What I think is the paradox here is that the rapporteur says that you want Danish society, but we say that you must not get into Danish society, you must not vote. I think I put myself wrong because I didn't get the answer to the question, so I'm gonna have to try asking again. Is it a fact that, as citizenship rules become tougher, more stringent, then the group that cannot vote will also be larger? This is not a question of opinion. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185510	I can confirm that we have a group of citizens in this country who do not have Danish citizenship, and there is a reason why they do not. It is the case today that you can apply for Danish citizenship, and there are some rules on how you can obtain Danish citizenship, and you have to relate to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185527	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185541	Thank you. There are some rules for Danish citizenship, and you have to deal with them, says the rapporteur. The other day, I was able to read on Facebook that Mr. Marcus Knuth of the rapporteur's party wrote that the Danish rules on foreigners were quite absurd, and it was upstairs that he had a meeting with a citizen who could not have a permanent stay, which is what it takes to obtain Danish citizenship. And that is the model that we in the Radical Left would like to see, so that we make it a little easier to have permanent residence, makes it easier to obtain Danish citizenship, rather than to support a constitutional change in which one does not need to be a Danish citizen in order to vote. Does the rapporteur not agree that there are absurdities in Danish immigration policy that need to be cleaned up so that it will be easier to have permanent residence and thus also easier to obtain Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185635	Now I am not the rapporteur for foreign policy, so I cannot go into detail. But Mr. Marcus Knuth, our rapporteur on foreign affairs, has a point in what he writes on his facebook post, and I am sure he will take that with him in his further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185651	Then we thank the rapporteur and then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185701	Thank you, President. The motion for a resolution is relatively loosely outlined. I think it would have been a little difficult to describe how difficult it really is to change the constitution and that is why there is no change in the constitution because there is dissatisfaction with one small thing. You only change the constitution if it is that the constitution in its entirety does not work. It is difficult to change the constitution, and so must it be. The motion for a resolution calls for a vote to be taken in the Folketing after four years of residence. We cannot in any way support this simply for the reason that we cannot know whether the person who has been here for four years also speaks and understands Danish. And in order to vote for the Folketing one must at least be able to keep up with a political debate. You have to be able to read a newspaper, you have to be able to read some political programmes, you have to be able to follow a debate on radio and television in order to understand what each party stands for. That is what we expect of a citizen of an enlightened democracy. And with this proposal, we are going to completely undermine this and, for that reason alone, I think we should reject it. I would also just like to say that it makes sense, of course, to be a Dane in order to be able to vote for the Folketing. This has been the case since 1849 in Denmark, and we support it, and we therefore reject the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185844	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185848	I didn't mean to take the floor, but I got a little nervous when I heard Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen on the platform here because you start talking about a minimum, that is to say a minimum criterion: you have to be able to watch television, you have to be able to speak Danish, etc. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party is ready to depart from the principle that you must have Danish citizenship in order to vote for the Folketing? I think that both our government minister was very clear about that and yours has been clear about that, but I think that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen is a little ambiguous about it. That's why I just want to ask Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen quite frankly: Was there something I misunderstood when he started talking about the minimum? Is the Danish People's Party heading into a debate with Mr. Sikandar Siddique, or can he completely chisel it into granite, that of course one must have Danish citizenship in order to vote for the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504185950	Yeah, and I thought I said that too. I was just starting from the motion for a resolution, which proposes that after four years we should be able to vote. After four years we cannot know if the person speaks and understands Danish, but with the current rules for becoming a Dane we know: You can't get citizenship unless you speak and understand Danish, plus a large number of other criteria. So I do not quite understand why this is a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190023	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190025	I am glad that I was able to make that clear. And then I have to say that I agree with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that of course you must have Danish citizenship in order to vote for the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190038	I'm glad. It is almost the reverse world that it is now the Danish People's Party that has to defend its view of Danish citizenship against a social democrat. That's fantastic; thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190056	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190058	Thank you. In fact, I had the same question as Mr. Anders Kronborg, for when Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen begins to list that one must be able to follow a political debate, to read a newspaper, my question will just sound in a somewhat less worried tone than that, as Mr. Anders Kronborg joined us. Instead, I'm gonna ask you if you don't mind, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen thinks there is an unreasonableness in meeting the demands of Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen himself, in his rapporteur's speech, points to precisely language, education and all these things, so for some, including people who may have been born in Denmark or come here as very small, a nice piece up in age, before you can have this right to vote, since you are doing everything you can to integrate, and then at a later stage you get the Danish citizenship that gives you the right to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190151	No, I think that is actually very reasonable. It is not a right to have citizenship, it is something we decide in the Folketing. If you live up to some criteria, you can have it, and everyone has the opportunity to have citizenship, if you live up to the guidelines we have set out, and that is one of the things that you speak Danish, understand Danish, that is that you are not a criminal, that is that you do not have a heavy debt, etc. etc. There are a large number of fine, good, sensible demands for citizenship and, moreover, there are also many other countries. In Denmark, it is relatively easy to obtain citizenship, for example. compares with many Muslim countries where it is virtually impossible to obtain citizenship because it is totally ethnically based. It is not in Denmark, it is objective criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190240	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190241	But one of the problems that I see at least is that this is because we want to integrate and take training, but at the same time it is precisely taking training that slows down the possibility of permanent residence and slows down the acquisition of citizenship. I would just like to know if the rapporteur does not think it is unreasonable that, when all these things are done, which the rapporteur himself is asking for, they lead to delays. In fact, it will be much easier to obtain Danish citizenship if you simply took an unskilled job instead of training.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190325	No, it's one of those things. through the tax which pays, the stranger can get a free education and in the long term can take a job and contribute and one day also be allowed to apply for citizenship and thus become part of the Danish family. I do not think that is unreasonable, in fact I think that is very reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190348	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190350	In fact, I think it is developing into a rather interesting debate. Now I have had many debates with the rapporteur's former party colleague, Mrs Marie Krarup, about citizenship, and there I have had the understanding of the Danish People's Party's view of citizenship and citizenship that this is something like being Danish from the heart, that you have to live up to some Danish values and such things, and that may be fine. But when Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen then starts to talk about what this proposal is about, namely voting rights, and that there are also criteria that must be met in order to obtain the right to vote, it must be independent of citizenship. Are the criteria that must then be met in order to have the right to vote, universal criteria that must apply to everyone in order to have the right to vote? Or how is that connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190443	Well, that's absurd. For me it is very simple: when you are a Dane, you have the right to vote, and as a foreigner you can become a Dane by acquiring citizenship, and then you get the right to vote. I was just starting with Mr. Sikandar Siddique's proposal and pointed out the absurdity that, after four years in Denmark, it would be possible to vote in favour of this proposal without knowing whether it can speak Danish or not. I'm not the one who put those criteria down on it. We are quite clear where we have always stood. Nationality is the key and access to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190514	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190516	Then I should just like to understand what the rapporteur started by saying, namely that we must be able to keep up with the political debate, read the newspaper and watch television. Here, too, it was my understanding of the subsequent replies from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said it was all about the right to vote. That is why I just want to ask whether it is such universal requirements that need to be put into it in order to obtain the right to vote and that, in order to be able to participate in democracy, we demand that we have a certain understanding of it in order to be able to participate in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190552	Well, sir. Peder Hvelplund, that's absurd. I am not the one who tabled this motion for a resolution. We would never have suggested it. I am just saying that it must be quite common that, in order to be able to participate in a democracy, whether it is a local democracy, regional democracy or a national democracy, you can understand what is being said, you can read what is being written and you can hear what is being said. Otherwise, it is not a democracy that is enlightened. How can that be so hard to understand? I simply do not understand that. It's out of my mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190632	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the New Civil Alliance, the Liberal Alliance, and then we go to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504190655	Thank you for the floor, President. Are there really any rules as to whether the procedure can be carried out in a meeting if there are only a few Members sitting in the Chamber? Erling Bonnesen President: Well it is an opportunity one has as rapporteur for a party to be here, it is an opportunity. And now there is an opportunity for the rapporteur for the proposers, so go ahead). Thank you. Thank you for the floor, thank you for a good debate here on Wednesday evening. I will begin with a quote from the Prime Minister's New Year's speech: Many of you who have come from abroad over the years have taken the... values for you. You often have some of the hardest jobs. You're working hard. Now we're gonna have to get more people to join us. Those were well-chosen words, and I fully agree. We must bring everyone into our diverse societies. I will therefore use my time today to talk about fundamental human rights, freedom, community and democracy in Denmark or the lack of it. Let me begin by stating: for me, a democracy works best when it is organized and controlled by the people who live in it. Denmark is a democratic country, we say that about ourselves, but has democracy followed the development of the people in our society? Let me rewind time in the history of Denmark. Back in 1915 women and servants were given the right to vote in Denmark. It was absolutely appropriate and necessary. And in 1953 the amendment of the constitution ensured women in the succession of thrones and automatic citizenship for Greenlandic citizens. Today we write 2022. Now is the time to re-include those who are outside democracy, because in the next parliamentary elections there is a large group of immigrants and their descendants in our society who are not allowed to participate in the democracy in which they live. About half a million citizens over 18 years of age are not allowed to vote in the next parliamentary elections. They look in from the outside and cannot see themselves in the fundamental democratic community. They do not meet the requirements for citizenship in Denmark, although they work and pay taxes, train themselves and live normal lives here in Denmark with the rest of us. This corresponds to the fact that one in ten citizens of one of the richest and most developed democracies in the world is excluded from democratic influence. Since 2017, one in ten children born in Denmark have been born in Denmark, for example. at the Rigshospitalet as myself... not a Danish citizen. In 2010 it was one out of twenty. Imagine how that number will only increase in the future. So, ladies and gentlemen, we need to change that. And therefore the time has come to extend the right to vote to the citizens who breathe and live in and for Danish society and who have lived here for at least 4 years. It will actually have a tradition of including more citizens in democratic participation. In conclusion, sir. Minister, I would like to quote the Prime Minister again from her New Year's speech. It sounds as follows: Denmark is a unique country. We trust each other. We'd rather get together than let ourselves be split... Denmark can do more. Especially if we stand together. Let us therefore extend the electoral law in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504191056	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220504191113	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 5 May 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
