ParlaMint-DK_20220511100031	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100039	The debate is open. The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100059	Noise can be a major nuisance to those affected, especially if noise reaches within the four walls of the home, and therefore I also have a great understanding of the frustration that the Danes affected by noise can experience, and I believe that an effort must be made to reduce noise, for example. through the use of mobile noise screens. But it is inevitable that large construction projects cause noise, especially when they are built in urban areas, and therefore there are also rules governing how much noise must be made. As a general rule, it is the municipalities which regulate the period during which work is to be carried out and how much noise must be made. This is done by the municipalities in accordance with the rules of the Environmental Protection Act and the rules laid down by that law. This starting point should be maintained, as it is also at the installation of the light track on Ring 3, where the plant is controlled by municipal commands. One of the reasons why we are dealing with B 107 today is that Lyngby Taarbæk Municipality had allowed the municipality's utility company to work until 10:00. 22.00 because they had been delayed with the work on wiring conversions, which they knew had to be completed before the Copenhagen Letbane could start their construction work in the municipality. On the other hand, the railway company's work takes place within normal working hours. All construction projects shall be attempted so that the project does not cause unnecessary environmental nuisance to the environment and that it takes place as far as possible during the daytime. This is a good starting point for example. noise nuisances, which are very burdensome for those affected, and therefore we also owe it to us to make an effort to minimise the nuisances. However, it is important to ensure a good balance between the momentum of large-scale construction projects on the one hand and the consideration of neighbours on the other. Such a balance has been achieved with the rules which have become customary to include in civil engineering laws and which allow for special rules on noise and pollution and associated rules on the possibility of compensation to affected neighbours. The homepage to lay down such specific rules shall only be used if it appears that the regulation of the specific construction project under the general environmental regulation may lead to significant delays or increases in the construction project. It was in connection with the Cityringen installation that a specific set of rules was first introduced on the possibility of laying down rules on pollution and noise from the installation and related rules on the possibility of compensation for residents exposed to nuisances as a result of the rules laid down. Rules were also introduced on the possibility of resettlement and the taking over of dwellings. The set of rules was translated into two orders immediately after it was inserted into the Cityring Act. In the law on the light field of Ring 3, the same rules have been inserted as are in the Cityring Act, but no notices have been issued. This is due to the fact that the works are carried out within the framework of general environmental legislation. In this connection, it may be noted that the Main Town Railway, which is responsible for the construction of the light rail line on Ring 3, has not approached the Ministry of Transport with a desire for such special rules to be laid down, as there has been no need for them. In addition to Cityringen, there has also been a regulation on pollution and nuisances and associated rules on compensation for the construction of the Fehmarn Belt tunnel. This set of rules was established in the summer of 2021 at the request of the construction company. It is the Government's view that it should continue to be the Folketing which, with the adoption of concrete construction laws, lays down whether a construction company should be able to ask the Minister of Transport to lay down specific rules on noise and pollution from an installation in exchange for compensation to the noise-ridden neighbours and that the application of these rules should continue to be the exception. We should not therefore lay down general rules on this. It should continue to be the general rule of environmental law, which must also apply to large-scale construction projects, and for these reasons the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100530	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100534	Thank you for explaining why the government will not support our motion for a resolution here to give compensation to the neighbours for the easy track. We believe in Conservatives that when the community, society, imposes a group of citizens on a very large number of nuisances, it must also be compensated for. I fully agree with the Minister that it is inevitable that there will be noise and nuisances when you have to build large construction projects it can be no different and, although we disagree with the construction of the light track at all, we recognise that the community, the Folketing, has the right to decide such things. But we also think it must be the case that when the Community takes decisions of this kind which, for a period of time, are extremely hard on a group of citizens who have not been able to care for their everyday lives and who have been so upset by their lives, it is reasonable to pay a penance for it. I find it disappointing that the government will not be involved in this. We must take note of a blank rejection, and I think that is unfair to the neighbours out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100642	As I said in my speech, there are already the necessary provisions in the law on light rail on Ring 3 to lay down specific rules on pollution and nuisances from the light rail installation, and that is why the proposal is rejected. It is not that there is no understanding for the citizens who are exposed to the noise, but it is that the necessary provisions already exist in the law on light rail on Ring 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100708	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100709	The neighbors won't get any compensation. They can't use it for anything, that there are some rules. What we are asking for is for them to be compensated, and the rules are obviously such that they do not receive compensation. We believe that they should be compensated and we therefore consider it unsatisfactory that the government will not change the rules so that it will be possible to give them that compensation. After all, I have been in dialogue with the Minister's predecessor about this and was told that there was no legal basis for paying compensation, and that is why the government would not do so. Now the government must stand by and say that the government does not want to change the rules either, so there will be a legal basis for doing so, and of course we are sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100746-2	As I understand it, it is, of course, about the local organisation of work and not about the fact that the legal instruments do not exist. It is about the local organisation that has been involved in this specific project, and it is not about the fact that there is no understanding for the citizens, but it is about those who are responsible for the specific project to use the legal instruments and the legislation that exists. But I can have a concern that every time there are some citizens who are exposed to noise in a specific project, we have to deal with it on a case-by-case basis in this Parliament. I think the important thing is that we have the means, that we have the framework for it and that they are then used out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100827	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we go to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511100842	Thank you, President. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on a legislative amendment which, according to the proposers, will enable the state to pay compensation to its neighbours for light rail construction in the vicinity of Copenhagen and other similar situations where citizens are exposed to severe noise nuisances in public buildings. Road and rail noise is a growing problem. Therefore, a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties have jointly secured a historically large pool of noise control along the Danish roads and railways from last year with the infrastructure agreement. This is a good thing and we will be able to continue to launch projects to combat noise for the benefit of many citizens around the country. In the same infrastructure agreement, we have decided to build a wide range of roads, cycle paths and railways, and construction works will expose neighbours to noise for shorter or longer periods of time. It stresses the importance of having good legislation on noise limits and possible compensation for the benefit of neighbours. Fortunately, we already have that legislation. In the Social Democratic Party, we find the proposalers' desire for compensation for heavy noise nuisances undoubtedly sympathetic. I believe that there is a broad consensus that compensation should be granted in the event that construction works break the limit of what is tolerable with noise. It is undoubtedly very important for citizens' everyday lives if they are harassed by noise over a long period of time. The truth is, with this proposal, the proposers are kicking in an open door. Because it is the case that the law on light rail on Ring 3 already contains the necessary provisions to lay down specific rules on pollution and noise from the light rail system. As it is now, it has not been necessary to lay down specific rules and the associated possibility of compensation for neighbours in connection with the construction of the light rail line on Ring 3, simply because the construction works are handled within the applicable environmental regulation, and the railway system follows the set schedule and is expected to be completed in 2025. This means that the neighbors' possibility of compensation for temporary noise nuisances is assessed in the light of neighbouring rules. Here we have established a limit on what is reasonable to tolerate. But it is clear that if this limit is exceeded, neighbours can be entitled to compensation. Such an assessment will be based on whether the disadvantages can be said to exceed what can reasonably be expected from the start of the project. If, contrary to expectations, the project is delayed because of the current situation with a shortage of labour or difficulty in supplying materials, it may by its very nature be necessary to carry out evening and night work. In such cases, there will be a deviation from the applicable environmental protection law, and then it may be necessary to have specific rules, which will mean that the construction works will be obliged to pay compensation. So, in order to pick up, we in the Social Democratic Party have great sympathy for those neighbours who, for a period of time, are being harassed by noise in connection with the development of both road and rail projects. This applies both to neighbours to the light track at Ring 3, but also in the years to come, when more will be bothered by noise when the many good projects of the infrastructure agreement are implemented and initiated. Fortunately, we have the necessary legal framework in place to ensure that such projects stay within the noise limit and ensure that neighbours are entitled to compensation if the construction works exceed this limit. Against this background, we find no reason to support this motion for a resolution. I would like to welcome the Myrtle Transport Rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Henning Hyllested, who is doing his job in a parliamentary committee and therefore cannot be present in this Chamber, and say that Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101227	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101229	I think we're talking a little bit past each other, and I hope it's not conscious. Actually, I don't think so either. The Socialists say that there are already rules that make it possible to provide compensation. That is true if we are talking about night work. This is not about night work. It has been held within the time period at 1 p.m. 7:00-22:00, and that's why the neighbors can't get compensation. What we want is for it to be possible to pay compensation when work has been done day in and day in from 1 p.m. 7:00 a.m. till 7:00 a.m. 22:00 in the evening, because it is actually also very nice to be able to stay in your home during the period at 2 p.m. 7:00-22:00. And if you are exposed for weeks to the fact that, just outside your front door, there is constant noise during that period, it is not possible to have a proper everyday life, and we think it is so great a nuisance that it is also reasonable to give a penance to the people who are exposed to it that they can then either keep or spend spending the night somewhere else for a period of time until it becomes to endure being in their own home again. And I am surprised that the Socialists do not agree with that. I think it is very hard to impose on some specific citizens on behalf of the Community. After all, we do not agree with the idea of building the light rail, but it is quite right and a legitimate democratic decision to choose to build it. But then there must also be compensation for those people who are exposed to great genes, as has been the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101349	I'm gonna start by trying to figure something out. Now, sir. Rasmus Jarlov said twice that the Conservative People's Party does not agree with building the easy track. I just wanted to hear one thing. After all, the rapporteur will now have the opportunity to ask me a question again in a moment, but perhaps also to give me a short answer. What has the Conservative People's Party voted in relation to the three legislations that have been made around the light track in Ring 3? I'd like to hear that. In addition, I would like to say that this is very accurately reflected in the Minister's speech, more precisely than in my own speech. I think there is a good explanation of what rules are already in place. Therefore, if you come to a situation where the citizens who live along the construction of the light rail line in Ring 3 are exposed to some nuisances, then they can also receive compensation. And that's just like what we saw when they did the metrification, that's where they developed these compensation schemes, and in that way the citizens who get bothered along Ring 3 will also be able to get such compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101448	The latter is not correct. Then the government has certainly lied to me, because I sat with Transport Minister Benny Engelbrecht and was told that there is no way to compensate neighbours. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution, because we want it to be possible. If this could be done now, we would not have tabled the motion for a resolution at all; then they would already have been compensated. They didn't get it. There is a settlement around the light track that we have been working on since 2015 at least. It's not Conservatives' fault that the light track was built. It was because the Socialists insisted that it should be built. It is true that we voted in favour because we are bound by a conciliation, but it is dishonest for the Socialists to stand and make it sound as if we were supporters of having the easy track built. We have been loyal to a settlement that was reached in 2009, but this is one of the worst traffic projects in Danish history when you look at the socio-economics, and that is why we have been trying for a long time to convince the Socialists that we should change the conciliation. And if the Socialists had agreed to it, we would not have built the easy track. So it is the Social Democrats who are the reason why the light track was built, not the Conservative People's Party. But it's a side thing. Now we are working to make it as tolerable for the neighbors as possible, so we have lost that fight, because you have a majority to push this through.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101600	I would just like to say that it is an injustice that is spreading here in the area of transport policy that we can pick and choose in the agreements we make. At present we also have the question of user charges on the Storebælt Bridge, where there is also a party that believes that they can be part of an agreement that is financed by user charges on the Storebælt Bridge, and at the same time you will be outside. In other words, Conservatives have voted in favour. You have to put your hand on the hot plate if you want to help decide this. And yes, in relation to what we are talking about today, I think we're talking a little bit past each other. I would like to point out that, in what the Minister of Transport said was the rules, there is, in fact, a legal basis in this law on light rail in Ring 3 for such compensation to be granted. So, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I think that the proposal kicks in an open door.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101647	Thank you. There are no more comments and we go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101659	Thank you for that, President. This motion for a resolution proposes that the law should be amended to allow the State to pay compensation to neighbors exposed to severe noise nuisances in public buildings, including, for example: neighbors to the light rail construction in the surrounding area of Copenhagen. It is also proposed that the government be required, before such a bill is tabled, to present and discuss different models of replacement with the Folketing, including how much each model will cost, so that the Folketing can decide on costs and not least funding. It is important that our infrastructure is expanded and maintained, and this, of course, means that at times construction can be built and yes, construction can be noisy, and yes, it can be annoying, but it is necessary to provide the necessary infrastructure for the benefit of all of us. There can be no doubt that light rail construction, which started in 2018, exposes citizens whose housing is close to construction to noise nuisances, and therefore I can understand the dissatisfaction that the citizens of the eight municipalities that the 28 km-long easy track must feel. We can understand from a letter from the Ministry of Transport that there is already a legal basis in which the Minister can lay down rules for compensation as a result of louder noise and night work. However, this does not change the fact that we in the Left welcome the fact that possible models are being looked at to compensate the citizens concerned. The best decisions are now taken on an enlightened basis, and that is why we support the Conservative People's Party's proposal that we put forward the various models of funding, including how the costs and funding of such models will look. Against this background, we can, of course, make the best possible decision. We therefore hope that the resolution will receive the necessary support so that we can discuss the possibilities of helping these troubled citizens. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101904	Thank you. There are no comments. The next is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511101919	Thank you. It is the Social Democratic Party that is the cause of the easy track, said Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. I might otherwise venture to claim that we are other parties that also have a share in that project, but let it be. I really think that this is a rather interesting dialogue that is taking place here, particularly between the government and the Social Democrat rapporteur and Mr Gundelach. Rasmus Jarlov from Conservatives. In other words, we need to have clarified in committee what is up and down in these provisions, because frankly, I get a little confused by hearing this dialogue. My view, may I say to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, in fact, is also that there is a legal basis already, but perhaps we could drill a little in the committee work. Then I would like to say that I think the proposal is sympathetic. I just think that sir... Rasmus Jarlov and Conservatives have a slightly wrong focus. We must be able to provide compensation when it is absolutely necessary and we cannot avoid making too much noise, and we in the SF would like to talk about that in general. But what is really interesting is to ensure that they do not make so much noise. How can we do that? How can we reduce noise from construction projects, and how can we do this in a more appropriate way? I flew right past the official gallery on the way over here and asked if it could have been chosen by the developer to do this in a way that made less noise, did it at another time, and if there are opportunities there. We're gonna have to look into that. That is what I think is essential in the debate on noise. Because we know that noise is harmful to health, enormously harmful to health, so that it is not a lie, and we are incredibly busy in this small closed room by transport rapporteurs of traffic noise and its impact on the health of the citizens who are exposed to the long term. I think it would also be worthwhile for us to take a little interest in the slightly more short-term but, if not more severe noise from construction work. So we really think that we should have a discussion in the committee of the proposal here, perhaps especially the last part, where we would like to have a discussion on how to reduce the noise impact. And then we're gonna have to figure out if there's a legal basis or if there's no legal basis. But for the time being I would like to say that I think it is a sympathetic proposal by Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, but immediately SF cannot support it as it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102145	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102146	I think you'll be sorry out there in Lyngby, Sigurd Agersnap and other good people from the SF who travel out there... that the Socialist People's Party won't be helping to compensate the neighbors who are so badly hit. I'll tell you what. I would like to give the SF, together with the Social Democrats and the other parties who have insisted on implementing the agreement, the credit for the easy track. The important thing for me is just to defend me against the accusation from the Social Democracy that it was the Conservative People's Party that caused the easy track, because since 2015, we have offered to change the agreement to all the other parties. We can't do this alone, because once you've made a deal, you have to stand by it. But you can change agreements if you get smarter, and that is what we have at least become. When we look at the calculations, it turns out that this kind of socio-economic is one of the worst transport projects in Danish history and that it creates more congestion than it creates, and therefore we think it would be sensible to drop the project. In relation to the legal basis, it is my clear opinion, also on the basis of the note, that compensation can be granted if the work is carried out in certain ways, just not in the way it has been done out in Lyngby-Taarbæk, and therefore today there is no right to compensate the neighbours.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102301	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102302	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov rightly points out that if transport projects are too bad, they should be dropped. I can think of a motorway or two, about which I would have the same objection, but it is now the case that we are making conciliation and broad agreements in the transport sector, where some people get something, and others get something else. It is not the case that the SF does not want to help compensate people who are affected by extraordinary noise. We would like to discuss this. At the moment, however, there are doubts as to whether this is even the case in this situation. We're gonna have to figure that out. I think, as I said, that the essential thing must be that we find out how we make less noise and not just how we compensate those who are exposed to noise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102353	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102354	In any case, it must be certain to conclude that, since the neighbours have not received any compensation, it must be the case that, if there is a legal basis today, it must be a lack of willingness to provide them with compensation which means that they have not received any. It is, after all, like the two possibilities that exist, because either there is no legal basis or there is no willingness to use the legal basis that already exists. As I have said, I have been in dialogue with the previous Minister for Transport on this and have been told clearly that he did not believe that there was any possibility of providing compensation; that it would not be legal. That is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution. I think it's good to get it figured out. If the note appears unclear, I think it's good to get it done. So thank you for your willingness to do so, anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102432	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102433	Now, in fact, I heard the Minister of Transport's choice of words in such a way that they had not been approached. So perhaps we also need to know whether that is the case and, in that case, what will happen if such a request were made. For then there may be an opportunity within the current framework, which has not yet been exploited. But let us take that on the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102456	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102506	Thank you very much. Thank you to the Conservatives for the proposal, which we cannot support radically. Work on the specific project which has given rise to the proposal is being carried out within the rules, so that it does not trigger compensation, even if it has been a nuisance to the citizens. There you can easily discuss whether you should have some other rules in the future if you think it has been too much. But I am glad to stand with the Conservatives on the radical side of adopting this light rail project; we are united in that. If one then thinks that in practice it has proved to be rules that are not satisfactory, then let us change them in the future. However, the specific project runs within the applicable rules, it has been adopted within, and even if the limits set for the project are violated, it is permissible to apply for compensation, and this has not been done by the project. I am of the opinion in principle that when we do these major projects, it is because we want to do something that is of community interest, and that also applies to this project. And the citizens who are currently experiencing the nuisance of the project will also later benefit from the infrastructure project that we are carrying out for the common good. It causes discomfort, and I think that, in fact, we in the Folketing should be robust when it comes to saying that when we do things like this, there will be people being bothered, but we do it for the common good, and we will of course try to minimize it. We would like to take part in a discussion on how we can look at noise pollution in the future, but we do not want to support the concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102630	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102630-2	What is the proposal here is that we have the rules changed. So I am a little puzzled at the refusal to change the rules with reference to the fact that the project has been carried out within the existing rules. That's right. But the reason we have put forward a proposal is that we want to change the rules so that it will be possible to compensate in situations such as this one. So I think that was such a non-reason from Radicals for why you do not want to change the rules, namely that it is because the rules have been followed. I didn't quite understand that. Then I'll ask Radicals if the Radical Left will help to stop the easy track, because then you can just let me know. We would like to go down into the conciliation circle and say: we want to stop the light rail project. If Radicals are in on it, we can just do it tomorrow. Would Radicals like to join in with Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102716	No, I can clearly deny that we want to stop the project. On the contrary, I think it is a very good idea to have this easy track, and so is my party. We are pleased that it is being built and I think it will be of general benefit and joy once it runs, even if we have to go through some genes here in the construction phase. And, as I said, we are happy to be in the same conciliation circle as the Conservatives behind this easy path. As I said, we would also like to look forward to the rules, but it is now my impression from the proposal put forward by the Conservatives that the main issue is how to compensate the citizens affected by the Ring 3 light rail project.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102747	Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102748	It is a good thing to clarify that the Radical Left does not want to stop the light rail project and never ever wanted it, while we have been trying for a long time to convince Radicals and other parties that we must stop the light rail project. It is just that we are honest about who supports the project and who does not support the project, instead of the Radical Left trying to confuse voters by claiming that parties mean something other than they really do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102811-2	No, my business was alone to say that Conservatives are part of the settlement that builds the easy track, and we are, of course, happy to be part of the settlement with the Conservatives. So it was ordinary political teasing when I say it like this, because Conservatives are in a strange situation, where you actually add votes to this project, which you are now thundering against.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102827	Thank you. There are no more comments. We move on to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511102835	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party we are very positive about the resolution. In fact, we think it is a good proposal, although one can of course also mourn that it may have a little big Copenhagen view, for there are other projects outside Copenhagen that cause trouble to citizens: Aarhus, Odense and elsewhere. These could have been successfully included in the motion for a resolution. But it's just a small thing. When I read it through, I thought: yes, we must actually support it. It is a good thing that we take care of the citizens; it is a good thing that they have the opportunity of compensation, because, as others have said in the Chamber, noise is dangerous to health. Then we received the note from the Ministry of Transport a few days ago, or it was yesterday, and it made me a little unsure. And the debate here today, with the Minister in the lead, has also made me insecure. I am simply in doubt as to whether there is really a right to compensation and, if there is a legal basis, why has there not been compensation? That is why I really think the resolution is a good proposal because it then sheds light on that problem. Apparently, there's a problem. It also made me a little unsure that the memo from the Ministry said that if we create these rules, there will be an automatic both in terms of compensation and in terms of delay of projects, which will go beyond the cost of the project. It will be expensive, which will then affect taxpayers. On the other hand, it is claimed that today there is the possibility of the legal basis and therefore also compensation. So even if we in the Danish People's Party are very positive about the proposal, we will have to get it unveiled in committee. I can see that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov nods. I don't know if we're gonna have an expert hearing on the committee. Perhaps it would be very nice for us to find out what is up and down in this matter. For one thing is certain: citizens should not suffer the loud noise for so many hours. No one can stand that. So we are on the side of the citizens and, as I said, we are very positive about the proposal, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov, and then the committee procedure must uncover the possible uncertainty, so that we in the Danish People's Party can be completely safe and thus also vote in favour of the proposal at a possible second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103112	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103114	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen and the Danish People's Party to support the resolution. It is very gratifying that the Danish People's Party will be on the side of the citizens in a matter that means so much to some citizens who are being incredibly hard hit. And I must be honest and say that I myself was elected in the vicinity of Copenhagen and was elected in Lyngby last time, and that is why the light rail construction in the surrounding area of Copenhagen naturally has my focus. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has been chosen somewhere else in the country and focuses on other projects. It is of course the beauty of the Folketing that we represent our part of the country and can bring the problems into the Folketing. Of course, we are fully aware that we cannot make rules that only apply specifically to light rail construction in the surrounding area of Copenhagen. If we are to change the rules, it must apply to all construction projects in Denmark, because of course we have to treat people equally. So it is certainly not our intention that it should be such a special law, and it is also stated in the motion for a resolution that we believe that there should be some general rules. It is just that there is no misunderstanding here. We do not want special treatment; we want the rules to be such that if you are exposed to something that is very violent, even during the daytime, you can get compensation. But thank you very much for being in favour of the motion for a resolution. And I think it would be sensible if we could just have a statement on what is the current set of rules. In any case, I would say that I have spoken to the government and have not convinced the government that it had an opportunity to provide compensation. That is why we have tabled the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103244	In any case, it is essential that we uncover the obvious uncertainty. There is no need to decide if you can do so in advance, but there is something that suggests that we cannot, otherwise the Conservatives would not have proposed this in the Chamber. And that just makes me a little insecure. We're gonna have to have it unveiled. We expect us to vote in favour of this proposal, but if it turns out during the discussion and any expert hearing in committee that you can, then the big question is: why on earth has compensation not been paid when you can already? That is the basis of the motion for a resolution. So we are, as a starting point, very positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103326	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103329	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen brings forward a proposal here to hold a hearing in the Committee on Transport, and it is such a rather comprehensive project to set in motion, so my proposal will be, and I will hear Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, if he agrees that we are going to have an expert meeting where we invite the competent staff of the Ministry of Transport over so that we can have the rules reviewed and all of them can be clarified in this way. It may seem a little complicated, as we have been able to hear from the debate here today, but can we have clarity about what is really in the legislation in force and how it will be brought into play in relation to, for example, the situation? neighbors to easy track in Ring 3?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103412	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103413	I mean, I'm positive about anything. I think it should be the final decision of the motion for a resolution on the question of what you really want, that is, whether you want an expert hearing or whether you want to settle for the experts from the Ministry, perhaps some of the transport associations, who then show up and explain. I'm pretty open. I think we should make an appointment with Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov. I am glad that the Social Democrats have an open mind to make us wiser on this. I think that will benefit the cause and the citizens. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103449	Enjoy, and I will say exactly what I was going to propose: it is to have a technical review in the Committee on Transport so that we can arrange it quickly, perhaps even in the coming week, when we are already in a hurry. Then we can get better clarity about this so that we can finish this resolution before we go on summer vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103507	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103507-2	A technical review is also a good thing for me. Well, we have a habit of doing that in the Folketing, so if Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is in on it, so are we. Perhaps he can answer that question himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103519	Thank you. There are no more comments. In view of the fact that there are no rapporteurs from New Citizens' Party, LA or from the other parties, it is therefore the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511103540	Thank you for the discussion of our motion for a resolution to replace the neighbours to light rail construction and others around Denmark, who may come in similar situations where they are extremely troubled by noise over a longer period of time, making it very difficult for them to get a well-functioning everyday life. After all, the history of light rail is that it was agreed in the 2009 traffic settlement. When you make these traffic reconciliations, they are very, very big and there will be things in such a settlement that parties are in favour of and things that parties do not support. We have also recently, here last year, made a very large transport agreement for Denmark for the next 15 years, and there will also be projects there that individual parties are in favour of and projects that they are not in favour of. You take the package as a whole and then you have to vote for the implementation of all the projects, including those which you think are unreasonable. The Conservative People's Party agrees with this, and that is why we have also voted in favour of it all the way through, because we have been bound by this conciliation. But it is also possible to try to convince the other parties in a conciliation circle to change their minds. Because if everyone can realise that it is unreasonable to carry out a project, then you can stop the project even if it has been agreed in a big settlement. This is what the Conservative People's Party has been trying to do, at least since 2015, when I became transport rapporteur and joined the Danish Parliament. Because calculations have shown that the light rail project is a bad investment. It is a project that is incredibly bad in socio-economic terms. Economically, it is one of the worst transport projects ever carried out in Denmark. We therefore think that it is unreasonable to implement projects which are less comprehensible than if projects are not built. And when lots of traffic researchers have looked very carefully at this and said that it would be more sensible not to build the light track, even if you got it for free, we think it is a pity that there has been so much stubbornness that you have not wanted to change the project. But that's the way it is. Now we have reached the point where it is being implemented, and we have to recognise that we have lost that battle. These are the conditions of democracy, and we accept that, although we disagree, but then we must try to carry out the project as fairly and as lightly as possible with the least possible discomfort to our neighbours. That is where we think that when you are exposed to very large noise nuisances and when the Community imposes enormous nuisances on a small group of citizens, it must be reasonable that you should also receive compensation. We think it is insufficient that compensation can only be obtained if it is a night work operation and that compensation cannot be paid when work starts at 1 p.m. 7:00 in the morning to 22:00 in the evening for a longer period. Because it's also very nice to be able to stay in your home between 2:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. 10:00. I think it is important that the government stands by and does not want to compensate its neighbours. Either you do it or you don't. So we cannot sit and say: there is a legal basis, but we will not vote in favour of the resolution and we will not give compensation to our neighbours, by the way. If there is a legal basis, the government will have to go to its pockets, and then it will have to give it compensation, because then the government will have the opportunity to do so. There are only two options: either there is a legal basis, and then it is because the government is not allowed to give compensation to its neighbours. Other options I find difficult to see. It cannot be the case that there is a legal basis and the government has the will to provide compensation, but that there will still be no compensation. Well, that doesn't make sense. Former Minister for Transport, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht told me this autumn that there is no legal basis, and that is why we tabled the motion for a resolution. I assume that when the government tells a member of parliament like me, it's true. That is why I would be very surprised if we suddenly turned around and said: 'Well, there is a legal basis; we can give compensation to our neighbours'. But I would be delighted, and I would also be delighted if the government were to start giving the compensation to the neighbours that there might be an opportunity to give. But I am quite sure that the situation is that there is no legal basis. And when I read the note from the Ministry of Transport, I actually think that's what it says. It says that compensation can be granted, but only if there is night work, and because there is no night work, there is no compensation. I'm pretty sure that's how the law should be understood. I would suggest that the Minister should come to the Committee on Transport and explain it, because then at least we have it on tape, and then it goes into the open so that everyone can hear what it is up and down so that no one is sitting out there and being unsolved, in terms of what is really possible and what is not. In any case, we must make the decision with open eyes and we must be honest with the citizen when we say that we will or will not provide them with compensation. No one can sit in here like that and excuse themselves with law, because in the Folketing we can change the law. So if there is no legal basis today, we can change the rules, and that is exactly what we have proposed here with the resolution. I would like to thank the Left and the Danish People's Party for being positive about the proposal. I do not want to thank the Social Democratic Party, the Government and the SF for not being positive about the proposal, but I will look forward to holding a conciliation meeting, where hopefully the Minister will make a statement to us, so that we are all at least sure what is up and down, whether there is a legal basis, whether it is will or whether it is law that will stop us and if so, whether it is the will or the law that we are going to change. So thank you for the treatment. We look forward to further clarification from the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104130	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Transport. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104145	The debate is open. And it's first the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104218	Thank you. I'm blowing a little bit not only because I'm out of breath thinking that I'm going into this debate with good colleagues, but also because I just ran up the stairs so I'm gonna have to excuse you. Thank you for the floor. And thank you to New Citizens for the proposal. I was very pleased when I read the comments on the proposal. The proposers talk about emission-free and cleaner energy for the benefit of the whole world. I agree, of course, that we should have that, but I do not agree with what is the conclusion of the proposers. Nuclear power is not the way for Denmark. Nuclear power is an energy form to which we have fortunately said no many years ago in Denmark. Why? For a number of reasons. The first is that, in my view, it is not a sustainable form of energy. I do not think it makes sense to call something that leaves radioactive waste many, many generations into the future too sustainable. Moreover, it is not a cheap form of energy either. It is the case today that nuclear power is a very expensive form of energy compared with, for example, nuclear power. Sea winds. Nor is it something that offers a great deal of flexibility at least not on the short track, because it takes an incredibly long time to build a nuclear power plant. There are examples of how nuclear power stations can be built relatively quickly, that is. Maybe even in less than 10 years, but it is in parts of the world where you do not have the same safety standards as we do in Europe. And in Europe there are examples that it takes decades to build nuclear power stations. Then there is the waste problem. Well, not only do we leave this waste for so many generations into the future and have to find storage capacity for it, it is not entirely safe to transport it. Finally, despite the fact that the safety of nuclear power is of course better today than it was decades ago, it is still so that things can of course go wrong. We are dealing with people, and when we are dealing with people, human error can occur. Moreover, errors may also occur in computer systems and in technical installations. So, overall, one can never know quite sure, and that is of course also one of the things we were forced to discuss among the EU's energy ministers when we suddenly faced a new situation with Putin's invasion of Ukraine. What exactly was the security about these works? And some of that, for example. We should be told what we are really doing if the people who are responsible for security, that is, the people who are working to ensure the safety of these works, are not there because there is war. All this means that if you choose to use nuclear power, as I recognise that some countries do and also recognise that some countries may have better reasons to do than Denmark because they do not have such good alternatives, yes, you will have to relate to those things. Perhaps the most important reason why all I have just said, however important it may in fact be in Denmark, is that we have alternatives. We have alternatives that are cheaper and better, safer, greener. We are a country that is already a pioneer when it comes to having renewable energy in our energy mix; who has ambitions for both short and in particular on the long track; • not just to provide ourselves with green energy, but to provide the rest of Europe with green energy. We are seen as a country in the world that can make a difference not only to ourselves, but also to others, in terms of transforming our energy systems. And then it would be strange if we were to say that we do not even believe in it, that we do not even believe in renewable energy and that we would rather choose nuclear power. So when we do not need it; when we have a leading position in green energy, why not maintain it? This is not the same as not researching new and exciting nuclear technologies. After all, there are a lot of things that look exciting in relation to being able to make nuclear power in the future, perhaps without the radioactive waste it would be a huge advance for the world. That may be very fine, and if that situation arises, there will be many countries that will be in a safer situation than they are today. And that's why it's good that research is being carried out in Denmark on these new technologies. The government doesn't oppose it, but from there and to say that we in Denmark should invest in nuclear power, it's a long way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104758	There are a number of questions. It's first, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104803	Thank you to the Minister for the clear rejection of the fact that nuclear power is sustainable energy, and to say that it is an expensive form of energy, that it is inflexible that there is waste from it for many generations, that it is not safe, because things can go wrong. And then we have recently experienced the uncertainty that may exist in a country such as Ukraine, where there are more nuclear power stations and where Chernobyl has been part of the battle zone. Then the Minister concluded by saying that the main reason for rejecting this motion for a resolution is that there are cheaper and better alternatives, and when you look at the energy planning that we have successfully carried out in Denmark since 1985, when a forward-looking Parliament decided that you should not have nuclear power as part of our energy plan, you have to say that over time we have come up with solutions which can both be solutions in Denmark and be something we export. So thank you for the clear rejection.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104907	I don't know if there was a real question, but I just want to say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104918	Is there another comment? No. Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104923	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister for the speech, which highlighted a number of criticisms. One of them was that we should not invest in nuclear power, because it would mean that we do not believe in wind and sun in Denmark. I do not see that there is any contradiction between the two, so what I would like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister does not agree that there must be another supply and that we cannot cover ourselves solely with wind and sun. And if it is not to be fossil and it is not to be nuclear, what will it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511104956-2	That contradicts the questioner himself. On the one hand, the questioner says that there will be no contradiction between saying that you want nuclear power and saying that we can rely solely on renewable energy and, on the other hand, that we have to have some nuclear power because we cannot manage with renewable energy. In other words, we are going to be able to cope with renewable energy, and it is clear that this means that we need to expand massively on wind, on sun, on geothermal, on biogas, but also, of course, on the technologies that are going to help us store, so that we can avoid some of the challenges that lie in the fact that renewable energy is sometimes unstable, which is nuclear power as well. In many places in Europe where you have nuclear power, you experience much greater power cuts and longer-lasting and more frequent than you do in a country like Denmark. After all, we have one of the world's highest energy security and one of the world's best trackrecords when it comes to avoiding power interruptions, and we have, of course, noticed this in a situation where we do not use nuclear power.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105106	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105107	Now I didn't tell you we should have 100 percent. wind and sun in Denmark. I said that there was no contradiction in the fact that we could have a part of our energy supply from wind and sun, and New Citizens are also in favour of this. But is it not true that we are also dependent on other sources of energy? In other words, we are importing power from nuclear power stations and coal power stations today. They're just not in Denmark. They're in other countries. Does the Minister not recognize that this is a necessity? If we did not have the opportunity to import energy from abroad, the Danish energy system would collapse. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105148	After all, we have deliberately planned the Danish energy system after we are part of the European energy system and, in particular, and even closer, part of a North European energy system, and we will also be in the future. One of the countries with which we are very closely connected, on which we are very dependent and which is very dependent on us, and in particular the latter, I think, is becoming even more decisive in the future, that is to say, that they are dependent on us because we are going to help them, is Germany, and they are, after all, phasing out their nuclear power, which a large number of countries around the world are for the many good reasons I started by mentioning. So it would be a little strange if Denmark, as a green forerunner, were to go against that trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105231	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105235	I think the government is living a little in the past. When the government hears the word nuclear power, we think of Chernobyl and huge plants that take 20 years to build and cost billions. But the technology today has evolved enormously. Today you can create small modular installations, including: Seaborg works in Denmark on it. It could be a huge export item. There are areas where you cannot have wind or solar energy, for example. in Southeast Asia and in many places in Africa. And if they want to switch to green energy, they will have to have some small modular installations. Is the government not at all prepared to invest in research so that we can become even smarter and even more capable of exploiting these new technologies, which are
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105336	Yeah, I guess that's what I said in my speech. In other words, if I did not make it clear enough, I would like to repeat that there are exciting prospects in this. This is just not the same as saying that you have to support this proposal, because this proposal is something else. As Seaborg, the company referred to, wrote in a recent debate in Altingen: "Let's stop wasting time talking about nuclear power in Denmark. Let's focus on solving Denmark's CO2 This is the company that is referred to here is developing the new technology, which itself says that it is probably not exactly in Denmark that we need it. So I think we might agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105421	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105422	But the reason why Seaborg has abandoned Denmark is that there are no regulations that are supposed to exist before construction in Denmark. In the other Nordic countries, they are quite different about it. In Finland, there is a great deal of support for nuclear power, even from the Greens, because they consider it to be green energy. So if we are to get Seaborg to invest in Denmark as well, then that requires the government to start work to regulate future nuclear technology. Is the government interested in starting such a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105500	Well, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen apparently knows Seaborg's position better than Seaborg himself. I'm gonna have to call on Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen to read the speech that I am referring to here, where the opposite is said, so that you do not want to create nuclear power stations in Denmark either. Alex Ahrendtsen is talking about. It is not the same as not being able to work to develop technology that can be used elsewhere in the world. But when we have the opportunity in Denmark to manage with alternatives, when we know that all the world's eyes are on us, too, it is fair to say that we are certainly among the countries in the world that are the most advanced when it comes to renewable energy, for example. with the first offshore wind farm in the world, and now we're making energy islands and the second one, it would be weird to start going another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105549	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105552	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would like to hear from the Minister what the position is on nuclear power on European soil, especially in the light of the energy crisis I am not now talking about Denmark, but about on European soil we have and about the need to phase out Russian gas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105613	In relation to the need to phase out Russian gas, I would say that it is certainly a bad idea to invest in nuclear power. In the United States it took 43 years to complete the latest reactor. In Finland, reactor 3 at the Olkiluoto plant is delayed by 12 years, it's just the delay. In England, the Hinkley Point C plant has been underway since 2010, and it is only finished in 2026. So the thing about doing something fast because of Putin is certainly not nuclear power. In addition, all the things I said in my speech about why I do not think it is sustainable. That is why, to put it mildly, I cannot understand why I do not actually know where Conservatives are on the issue that the Left has supported that nuclear power can be characterised as green energy in the European Union. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105701	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105703	Conservatives don't put anything in the question. It was actually a question of attitude. I know that the Minister has great insight into what is happening at EU level as well, of course. The second question is if you take it outside the EU: what is the Minister's position that you support the development of power in third countries if you, for example, support the development of power in third countries? does a country like Bangladesh or countries where there is limited access to wind and sun?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105729	But these are clearly the same concerns I wanted there as those I explained in relation to a-force in Europe too. But I also recognise that we are going to have a-power in the world and that we will also have it in some countries because the alternatives there would be more scarce. And, of course, you don't all have the same conditions as we do in Denmark. But it just doesn't change on the bottom line: we can't start calling it green, because green isn't just about CO2 It's also about other things, for example. garbage. And that does not change the fact that, to the extent that alternatives can be found at all, we should do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105809	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions, and we are starting with the rapporteur's series. This is Mrs. Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511105822	Thank you. In Denmark we have been using wind power for many centuries, and today Denmark is the world leader in wind power from wind turbines, which also supplies power to the European electricity grid. That is why this motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party surprises me. Because with the motion for a resolution New citizens seem to want to completely ignore Denmark's position of strength in the field of energy and instead go back to a dusty discussion on which the Danish Parliament agreed otherwise in 1985. At that time, the then Parliament decided to let nuclear power out of Danish energy planning; today we have a high share of VE in our electricity supply. It was a wise decision at the time, and it is also a wise decision to stick to it today. There are many reasons for this, among others. nuclear power stations are an expensive form of energy. The newest Finnish reactor's electricity is likely to cost about $95 a year. MWh, and the newest British reactor's electricity will cost about $120 a year. MWh. Nuclear power stations are thus at the high end when compared to what consumers have to pay for other and greener energy sources. For example: With our Danish wind turbines in Krieger's Flak offshore wind farm, it will cost about $55 a year. MWh, i.e. less than half of what it costs from a modern nuclear power plant. New Citizens have created a website. It is called www.stopfraas.dk. Here the party gathers stories from the Danes about what is called frizz with the Danes' money. However, I have not been able to find New Citizens' own proposals on the website, and that is why we must understand that greed with Danes' money does not apply when it comes to energy prices. Because although we are in a time of rising energy prices, New Citizens want to invest in expensive nuclear power to the Danes. This is one of the reasons why I am puzzled by this resolution. Why have New Citizens thrown their love on nuclear power when it is a significantly more expensive source of energy than both wind and sun? Why are New Citizens so in love with the idea of getting this expensive energy source to Denmark when we are world champions in sea winds? Denmark is witnessing forbidden love, where New Citizens compromise on principles of financial responsibility because they have fallen unhappyly in love with split uranium kernels. Everyone knows that love can blind us, and that is what is happening with this motion for a resolution from the New Citizens' Party. The climate will be the loser if we pay an overpriced price and waste time building nuclear power stations in Denmark. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110112	Thank you to Mrs Paulin. There are no brief comments. And then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110133	Thank you for the floor. In Denmark, a majority in the Danish Parliament decided in 1985, as we have already heard, that nuclear power should not be part of our future energy planning, and that is why we do not have any nuclear power stations in Denmark. According to the proposers, it was decided at the same time that it should not be possible to finance and thus research into nuclear power. That's actually not true. It is thorium-based nuclear power in Denmark. And precisely thorium-based nuclear power is actually following the development of quite intensively because we say that there is probably a perspective, perhaps not for Danish energy production, but for energy production elsewhere in the world. Nuclear power, wind energy and solar energy are completely different forms of energy that cannot be compared to one. It is important that the debate does not become a discussion about whether we are for or against nuclear power. There are many aspects that need to be taken into account when we politically choose an energy form of impressions on nature and the environment, on people, security of supply and price stability. When nuclear power is not a very good solution in Denmark, it is because we have come a long way with the development of renewable energy sources in Denmark. We have chosen to bet on another form of energy. So although the Left recognises the taxonomy of nuclear power, we have found cheaper alternatives that can compete on the price, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned. We also have another problem with nuclear power, and that is that we have not been able to find storage space for residual waste, not even the residual waste from Risø. And it is the case that if you set up a nuclear power station, you have to be able to handle your own waste under international agreements. And there we have to say that we have had a challenge in Denmark. In 1985 we chose to say no to nuclear power. Instead, we have sought and found energy solutions that work in Denmark. Today, renewable energy is both practically complementary and also cost-effective, and we are on our way to becoming self-sufficient. By 2020 we had a record year for Danish green power • for the first time ever, energy from wind and sun could cover half of our total energy needs. This corresponds to 17 terawatt hours or energy consumption in well over 4 million Danish households. It is true that we are not in the end, but it takes between 7 and 15 years to build a nuclear power station, so nuclear power in the form we know is not a solution that lies just around the corner here in Denmark. Denmark is among the world's largest and most prosperous wind turbine industries. I believe that it is better to focus on the green transition and to develop storage possibilities for green electricity than to invest in an entirely new energy production that can be good enough in other countries, but with which we do not have experience. Worldwide, nuclear power accounts for approx. 15% of the total energy supply, and many countries have their energy consumption covered by nuclear power stations. And even if we do not have nuclear power stations in Denmark, we exchange energy across countries, so some of the energy coming from Germany and Sweden must logically come from nuclear power stations. And we currently recognise this as part of the Danish energy supply. So overall, nuclear power is a form of energy that is suitable in other countries from which we receive power, but which Denmark does not need to use because we have such good wind resources • we also have very good solar resources, and we have very good biomass resources. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution on the introduction of nuclear power as the well-known way of producing nuclear power. We cannot support that at present. But we are following the development of other forms of nuclear power, i.e. the thorium-based reactors, etc. And we have not rejected in advance that it could be a long-term perspective if there are no waste problems as we know them from traditional works. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110546	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. Mr President, first of all, I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110555	Thanks for the speech. There were some good elements in it, I think, recognising that nuclear power is a necessity. Does the rapporteur not think that nuclear power will continue to be a very large industry at international level and probably also growing compared to today? If the rapporteur is of the opinion, I do not understand why we should not be investing in research into it in Denmark as well. After all, this resolution is not necessarily about building a nuclear power station in Denmark, only that we should have research. And it is true that there is no ban on funding research in the field of nuclear energy, but it is just not in practice because of the decision taken back in the 1980s.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110639	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110642	Well, research into nuclear power is actually going on in Denmark. There are two companies working with these thorium reactors and they've got private funds. I recognise that there is no public money in the two companies, but there is private money, and it can therefore be said that there is indeed a research into nuclear power in Denmark. I do not know whether there are any elements of nuclear research at universities. But we just have to say that we have been committed to working with other forms of energy production, and we have actually become very good at that. And I think that some of what we really need to research in the future is that we can ensure that we can save the renewable energy we produce when the wind blows and the sun shines, and then have it transformed, so we have a safe and affordable electricity supply and energy supply in Denmark at all. That we have enough energy that is cheap enough and that is green is a prerequisite for the welfare society we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110739	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110740	Well, it is true that research is being carried out in Denmark in private companies. They are very advanced and have been able to attract very large investments, so I do not understand why we do not want to support it on the public side. So, a company like Seaborg Technologies has to recruit from abroad because there is no possibility of having trained staff trained here in Denmark. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110807	Sir. Carsten Kissmeyer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110808	If universities choose to research nuclear power, we will not vote against it. Well, we haven't told universities that they shouldn't be researching nuclear power. But it is clear that the decision taken in 1985 has had a secondary effect. But we just have to say that right now there is actually a focus on generating enough energy, not just in Denmark, but as some have said, there are countries that do not have good wind resources and do not have good solar resources and need energy in other ways. And we acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110843	Thank you. The next one I would like to give the floor is Mrs Anne Paulin from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110847	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech with many good points that I share. There is one thing, however, that I think is a little strange, and it is here that the Left goes in and supports that natural gas and nuclear energy in the European taxonomy are investments which can then be marketed as sustainable on an equal footing with investments in renewable energy sources in the sun and in wind. Does the rapporteur think that nuclear power is as sustainable and green as solar and wind energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511110927-2	In fact, when we talk about climate as we are doing right now, it is our assessment that with the climate crisis we are currently facing, where climate gases are the challenge, nuclear power is actually green. When we talk gas, the situation is, of course, that our neighbour to the south will depend very much on having natural gas for quite many years to come as well. And that is our incentive, like going in and saying that taxonomy and that we have had lots of discussions about natural gas, but, having said that, we also recognise that we have to keep a natural gas distribution system running in Germany and Eastern Europe for quite a long time to come, because we cannot reach the transition. And if you choose to say that this is a bad way of spending your money, we are afraid that you may find it difficult to maintain the supply that provides security for the industry in Germany on which we are also dependent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111030	Here you go, Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111031	However, Germany itself is opposed to nuclear power being seen as green in the taxonomy, so I do not know whether that argument in itself holds up. But then just to confirm this: there is something about the natural gas that the Left is not as happy about, but nuclear power is just as good as wind and sun in the left optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111054	Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111055	Indeed, that is our point of view with the approach we have to it, and we have chosen to support the two taxonomics. After all, some people know that in France there is a lot of A power, and in Germany there is a lot of natural gas. And we say that nuclear power is actually not bad because it does not emit climate gases. We recognise that we have a great challenge with residual waste, and that is why we naturally hope that some of the new technologies can actually ensure that we can also get nuclear power forward in one way or another, where residues are not the problem they are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111136	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer. Then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111149	Thank you. I can say right away that the SF does not support this proposal. We certainly do not want to roll back the decision that there should be no nuclear power in Denmark, nor, as such, do we think that more research funding should be spent in this area. It is the case that it is possible to research nuclear power, and the resolution there is where we stand. Sometimes I understand that there are some who feel a little attracted to the fact that nuclear power could be a solution in Denmark, namely when you look at the climate crisis and the war in Ukraine. It is also because there are parties that argue that nuclear power is both easy and cheap in terms of reducing our CO2 Russian natural gas. It's just wrong. Several examples have been given of how long it takes to build a nuclear power station with the technology that exists today and with the experience that has recently been gained, among other things, in the nuclear power station. Finland and England. The new technologies with a thorium reactor are in play, but they are still developing technologies. So it will take even longer before they are even ready. Basically, neither our natural gas dependence on Putin nor the climate can wait for these processes. So it will not help us in the face of the acute crisis, either in terms of high energy prices or dependence on Russian natural gas, or in terms of achieving our 2030 targets. New citizens go in with the price as a reason for us to have a nuclear power plant in Denmark. But that argument does not really make sense when it is cheaper to produce electricity by solar and wind energy than with fossil fuels and nuclear power. It is also when it is taken into account that investments in electricity infrastructure and energy storage are needed. In addition, there are all the other challenges associated with nuclear energy, including nuclear energy. The risk of accidents and CO2 In addition, there is just one extremely toxic waste product which is already causing problems for Denmark, namely from the experiments that were previously carried out and which have to be stored somewhere, and we have a responsibility to store nuclear waste, according to international agreements. So there are plenty of problems and it is basically neither a solution to Danish energy supply, rising prices nor to achieve our climate goals here in Denmark. That is why it will be a thank you for the floor and a no thank you for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111452	Thank you to Mrs Signe Munk. There are no brief comments. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111505	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. We are opposed to starting to use nuclear energy in Danish energy planning. We are in favour of energy planning, as is happening now, when we are trying to base an overall energy system that can deliver industrial quantities of energy, on renewable energy. I am very proud of the way we do it in Denmark, where we have developed this technology, which now contributes to the world's green transition through a determined effort over many years in our energy planning in relation to wind power. I am very proud of the way in which we have our heat planning, where we have such a high percentage of district heating and collective solutions that are increasingly based on green energy, and that we have managed significantly better through the gas crisis than all the other European countries with which we die. This is a good example of the fact that this long-term effort, which is green, has also proved to be very safe from external crises. And, of course, the same goes for the wind energy we have. When I look at the next step we will shortly be taking in Danish energy planning, it is a massive further expansion of wind capacity, the massive expansion of the production of PtX fuels from electricity, where we simply save electricity in the form of liquid fuels, it starts with hydrogen, and then it can be built up. Biogas plants are also one thing that we have in Denmark in the largest size in the world right now. We are the only ones who have really made a breakthrough in making gas from agricultural waste so that it can be used in industrial quantities. When you look beyond the Danish energy system at all, we have made breakthroughs, and we have an ambition that is almost paralysing when people see it from abroad, compared to how far we have come, how skillfully we have done it and how much perspective there is in it. We can see that it gives rise to a series of companies that are now selling to the rest of the world because we have come first into it. This means that we have an energy planning which I think is brave and inspiring and contributes to a very violent business development phenomenon across Denmark. And then New Citizens come up with a proposal here, whether or not we should start basing our energy planning on nuclear power. No, I do not think so, because we have a positive scenario in the Danish system and because so many other countries are making nuclear power. It is not a place we can get a position of strength when we have not been betting on it since 1985. And when you talk to the Danish companies that are researching nuclear power, they say that one of the problems is that because of a planning going back to 1985, where we have not been investing in this since then, there is no know-how and knowledge. It is not a position of strength in Denmark. On the other hand, we have huge positions of strength across our energy system in the renewables. That is, of course, where we in the Radicals want to keep the focus and expand it and even go further. So for us it will just be a blank no thank you to the proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111801	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511111815	Thank you. After all, this is a proposal from New Citizens that the Danish Parliament should move on to the organisation of energy planning so that nuclear power can be used. And we say 'no' to this motion for a resolution. Where are we in Denmark with our total energy supply? Well we have a power generation where we constantly develop on it to get more wind into our power system. We have solar cells that we are facing must be timeobles up to 2030, and where it is thus at low prices. We have a Danish biomass which must help to ensure that we maintain an electricity supply all the time. If we are to develop on new energy sources, then it is the wave power that we need to get into our overall energy system. We've got the district heating. There you need a base load for the big cities, and we need the ground load to deliver, and that is what you have started in Aarhus and you have been allowed to develop in the Greater Copenhagen area. It must then be supplemented by heat pumps, with Danish biomass and some solar heat, and that is something that is realistic. It has to be said that what we decided in the Danish Parliament in 1985 to do an energy planning without nuclear power was, in fact, visionary. We did not know how to do this at the time, and that is what we are helping to prove here in the 20s, that is that it is possible to arrive at one hundred percent renewable energy. Then we have some gas in our overall energy mix, and it makes sense that in time it does not go for home heating, but is used in targeted use in the part of the industry that needs some high temperatures. Why should we be opposed to nuclear power? Yes, it's an incredibly expensive energy. You can see it from the experience of newly built nuclear power stations in Finland, where the budget has become three times as large as when planning started, and you can see it at Hinkley Point. It is very thoughtful that the nuclear power plant is going to produce some electricity that needs massive support which is far greater than the moderate support given to offshore winds in England. So it's a little strange to see that there are bourgeois parties talking about being in favour of nuclear power. Why is it that society needs to be burdened with expensive energy? Then there is the fact that nuclear power is not safe. The Chernobyl accident in Ukraine in 1986 resulted in an incredible number of people dying of cancer as a result of it. Some people make it up to 90,000 additional deaths over time as a result of that nuclear accident. But okay, well, that was kind of Soviet nuclear planning. But what happened in Fukushima, Japan, in 2011? I mean, there was that accident that you said couldn't happen. But it happened. So nuclear power is not safe. And what is happening in Ukraine at the moment? There's a war going on in an area where there's more nuclear power stations. It's not safe to have nuclear power. Let us say that you then go into this climate change agenda and say that we need a rapid conversion of our total energy supply, so we are investing in some nuclear power because it is officially CO2 Well then you just have to say that it is simply too slow. It is so slow to invest in nuclear power when we have to resolve the climate crisis. So in a Danish context it would be completely foolish to change the policy so far. Because we're so close to achieving it. The efforts we make in Denmark with new energy islands and in providing support for a hydrogen development in Denmark, and the fact that there are subsidies for pyrolysis, it looks like it looks into a future where it is quite different overall energy solutions that we develop on in Denmark and where the export potential is huge. After all, we must come to a global solution to the climate crisis. It is the renewable energy that we need to invest in, and it is indeed gratifying that we can see that the solar energy that comes down to Earth every day is much more energy than we really need globally. So there's real hope. We're not saying that when the fossil sources are burned up, we're going to freeze in the winter. We are faced with developing renewable energy and it is possible to achieve goals both in Denmark and globally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112320	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112336	Thank you for the floor. It is, of course, urgent to free us from Russian gas, both for Denmark and for the whole of Europe, and it is a process that we are in full swing with, for example. also with the overall help of the EU RePower Plan. Phase-out is already expected at 65%. at the end of this year. It's going faster than we thought. Of course, it's also urgent to reach CO2 Unfortunately, it's a 2-degree scenario that we look into. We have talked about climate for the last 3 years, we have done so in Denmark, we do so in the world, but unfortunately it has not helped so much, because CO2 So energy planning is certainly something in which the Conservative People's Party has a great interest. The proposal before us contains two elements: research into a-power and a-power must be included in Danish energy planning. We can say yes to the general support of research, but we cannot support the proposal as a whole and the fact that nuclear energy must be included in Danish energy planning. We are open to nuclear research because we believe that technology should be neutral. Things happen fast. A Danish company has been mentioned here several times, which I think we are all impressed with, i.e. what they are developing with fourth-generation a-power, and there are many countries around the world that need to get into gear both economically but certainly also with the green transition, and energy is a prerequisite for economic development too. Not all countries have the very advantageous position as Denmark, where we have large and abundant access to quantities and opportunities for green energy sources, gas, geothermal, district heating, electrification through sun and wind on water and on land. After all, it is both Professor of Energy Planning Brian Vad Mathiesen, engineers and others who believe that we can perfectly achieve our CO2 But we say no to a-power energy planning, and we do, because we have the green solutions and we do not want a-power on Danish soil now. It is also very large investment projects that they will not be able to stand ready on Danish soil if they are also to be able to contribute to a 2030 objective, so that is where we say no, thank you. In third countries, we can be open to making sense. There are countries with very high population growth which do not have the advantageous position that Denmark has, with such abundant access to VE, and here perhaps fourth-generation power can be used for good reason in the future. That is also why we want to open up, because we do not want to stop others from being able to have a stable energy supply in the future. But I would like to add a few words to energy planning when I stand here, because that is something that is of great concern to us in the Conservative People's Party, in other words strategic energy planning. After all, we have said on several occasions that we need a plan for renewable energy. Where should it be placed, how should it be produced? We have proposed this in the past, and we will continue to push for it, and we look forward to having some negotiations on it before the summer recess, hopefully. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112713	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. The first one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112719	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that Conservatives can see the wisdom of researching nuclear power. In other words, the proposal we have put forward here is aimed precisely at the possibility of researching nuclear power, but it is being slowed down by the decision taken back in the 1980s. Are Conservatives interested in or do they believe that it would be advantageous for us to mandate and start doing more research in the field of nuclear power in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112747	Here you go, Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112747-2	We are open to free research, we are also open to the possibility of having private investors for research, and we have also been open to research in a European context. That is also why we have supported it and also the taxonomy that is now and here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112807	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112807-2	But does the rapporteur also believe that there should be increased public research in Denmark? Is that something the rapporteur will support if it is possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112817	This is clearly something we need to discuss. But the question is also: what is it to be used for? We do not have the research capacity at home now, as we hear, and that is also why you place and also want to create plants elsewhere around the world where you have the research capacity. This is not something we have a tradition of, so the question is whether it makes any sense at all to build up a research capacity that we do not need for Danish use. I think we'll have so much doubt about that. But in general we are open to, if other countries where you want to do research in a-force, but starting to build new research capacity on something that we do not need in Denmark, we will probably question a great deal. As a general rule, we are against the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112857	The next person I would like to give the floor to is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112903	Thank you. Now we were told that the Conservative People's Party also supports this proposal on the EU taxonomy, which equates renewable energy from sun and wind with nuclear power to view it as sustainable. But does the Conservative People's Party believe that these two forms of energy are, on the one hand, renewable energy sources and, on the other hand, nuclear energy are really equally green and equally sustainable?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511112933	No, you can't say that they're completely as green as wind energy. I'm not an expert on the detail, but you have to remember that there's a print, no matter what we do. There is also a huge print from windmills. We have seen windmill graves and heard about how they are produced and now I am not talking about Denmark. And we also have it in relation to batteries. There's something everywhere. What we are seeing with, for example. Seaborg, of course, is that they have been able to place their waste in a 14-foot container it can be closed inside. In this way, there is not a relative amount of waste in relation to the energy produced. After all, there is nothing to say that is completely neutral or sustainable today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113018	Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113019	Thank you. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he would agree that this is not something that stands in the way of doing nuclear power in Denmark today. There is freedom of research and basic funds can be made available, etc. at the universities to do research on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113043	Now I'm putting on my old research reporter's cap. Yes, and I have also been out at DTU, where I have met scientists who have informed me about the whole waste problem and how far they had gone. It is something that has moved very quickly, so we have some capacity; but not at all as much as has been built up in some of the other countries where they have a-power in advance. But you can, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113111	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. There are no more brief comments. Then we just got the rapporteur from DF on board. Here you go, sir. René Christensen. He's just flying in. It's fine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113127	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for the motion for a resolution. It is a resolution that I think has two sides, because you can read what we should vote on in this way: a motion for a resolution from the European Parliament that public energy planning should be organized on the basis that nuclear power can be used. When you read the comments, I think the proposal will actually be even more exciting, because where we are in DF, we think that we in Denmark should devote more effort to researching, so to say that nuclear power exists, and should we so cut ourselves off from the future? Can we get something safer? Yes, we can. Is that something you want to use? It's probably too early to say that we will. And that is where the proposal goes in and says that we must make a decision in principle that we want to. However, there is no doubt that we clearly believe that nuclear power is not something to be written off altogether. It is not the same as saying that it will be used in the energy supply. Nor is there any doubt that when we look at such things as shipping in the future, we will look at whether there is an opportunity to make the green transition work in relation to it. We know, when we look at defence and war material, that there is no submarine without, of course, being driven by nuclear power. And why is that? That's because it's silent, so it's a product that's used a lot of places. That is why we believe that, as an innovative country, a country which also has a history of nuclear power, we also have a need, of course, to turn up the research part, because then, at a later stage, also in relation to what we are going to vote on here, we can make this decision: is this something we want to use, or is it not something we want to use? I think it is quite clear, and that is where the Danish People's Party is of the opinion, that we should not only decide on this on the basis of foreign research; we must also decide on this on the basis of Danish research. Therefore, it can be said that it is just before we have to have this resolution perhaps again, but just with another minister instead of the Minister for Energy, with the Minister for Research, to turn up the possibilities of researching more in this energy source in Denmark. So we are quite positive about the proposal. We are not ready to say that it should be used, but we are, in fact, ready to see in the committee's work whether a report could not be drawn up, which is actually so a little sharp that this is something we should be working on in Denmark, and we should also work on that in Denmark. So there are positive tactics, but as it stands here in relation to what we are going to vote on, we find it difficult, but I really hope that we can get the country something sensible in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113413	Thank you to DF's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, and that is why we must welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Peter Seier Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113424	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. New citizens are tabling this motion for a resolution in the Danish Parliament that nuclear power should be re-incorporated in Danish energy planning. The purpose of the resolution is to remove the existing restriction on certain types of research in the energy sector. This does not mean that we need to build nuclear power stations in Denmark, but we need to get research going again and also in public. 46 environmental movements now support nuclear power, and Finnish electricity is soon completely fossil-free thanks to new nuclear power. The White House states that nuclear power must form a greater part of the United States' energy supply. China, France and a number of other EU countries are setting up and developing nuclear facilities. The European Commission's Special Scientific Council and Joint Research Centre, the Joint Research Centre, have established that nuclear power is a sustainable energy supply. Our analyses do not find any scientific evidence at all that nuclear energy harms health or the environment more than some of the other energy production technologies included in the taxonomy for energy sources. The JRC also notes that the alleged waste problems today have become even less risky as final storage solutions have now been developed. The conclusion is clear from the EU, the UN and a number of research environments around the world: minimal pollutants are discharged from nuclear power stations and safety has been dramatically increased over the last few decades. After all, global efforts are now being made to reduce CO2 World demand for energy is expected to increase by 50%. by 2030 and almost doubling by 2050, and what do we do in Denmark? Yes, for 37 years now climate and environmental activists and a majority in the Folketing have succeeded in maintaining a de facto ban on public support for nuclear research in Denmark. It has to stop now. Nuclear power came out of Danish energy planning back in 1985 when the Folketing made a decision on this. This was done on the basis of quotes from the knowledge and technology available today, i.e. in 1985. One consequence of the decision has been that publicly funded nuclear research has remained largely silent since then. It has now been 35 years and nuclear technology has developed a lot since then. It is therefore time to reverse that decision. It is not appropriate today. Allow me to outline some advantages of nuclear power. Nuclear power can produce lots of energy without significant pollution and CO2 By removing the de facto ban on publicly supported nuclear research in Denmark, we can build a globally leading research environment in sustainable energy sources. Denmark can thus further contribute to solving the world's future global energy needs. The research environment must also support promising Danish tech companies working on Danish research to help reduce CO2 All data and facts argue that Denmark quickly establishes a solid research environment in nuclear power. We should, we can and we must lift the legacy of Niels Bohr. Research in Denmark must, of course, also be about challenging questions for nuclear power, including the achievement of the economic viability of nuclear power plants, improved reliability, efficient waste management and resource utilisation, and that is precisely what a large number of countries around the world are researching. In new citizens, we believe that research into and dissemination of nuclear technology can, to a large extent, bring significant benefits over other energy sources, but we are not blind to the need for nuclear power to be adapted and constantly improved in terms of the best way of integrating nuclear power into the energy supply of the future. We also believe that nuclear power should be a major part of an energy supply system also consisting of renewable energy sources such as sun, wind and water. Maintaining a de facto ban on public support for nuclear research is therefore a self-target. It is beyond common sense and logic that, for example, Seaborg and other promising Danish nuclear research environments are not supported by the public and public research infrastructure. It is therefore time to reverse a de facto ban on publicly supported research in Denmark. The 1985 decision is not appropriate today. When we exclude certain solutions from the outset, we can be sure that we will not have the most green, the best and the cheapest energy supply in the long term. A Danish research effort in this area can help to make cleaner and cheaper energy available in the future at global level. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113940	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are just a few brief comments. The first one I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Anne Paulin from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511113946	Thank you. Firstly, it is not true that there is a ban on research in this field in Denmark. Secondly, I have a little doubt when I hear the rapporteur's speech. For the rapporteur starts by saying that the proposal does not necessarily mean that there must be nuclear power in Denmark. At the same time, New Citizens write on their website: Nuclear power is today the greenest and safest offer of Danish energy in the future. So can we just be absolutely sure what New Citizen really means? Should we or should we not start planning a nuclear power station in Denmark? In other words, will nuclear power be part of the Danish energy supply in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114032	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114034	Now I am not saying that there is a ban on research into it either. I am saying that there is a de facto ban, because after the decision was taken there has not been much research in the area of Denmark. With regard to the question of whether we should have a nuclear power station in Denmark, I would like to say that this proposal is primarily about the fact that we can get the research started. Whether we should have a nuclear power station in Denmark must be assessed on an equal footing with all other forms of energy in terms of price, safety and how it fits into the energy supply systems, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114102	Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114103	That was a rather unclear answer, and I do not think that anyone else is so much aware of the difference between a de facto ban and a real ban. Let me ask the rapporteur something else: does the rapporteur recognise what is widely recognised in many places and assessed by many international organisations, such as the IEA, namely that wind energy and solar energy are significantly cheaper than nuclear power?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114133	But we cannot compare electricity from wind energy and solar energy directly with electricity from nuclear power, because the difference is that electricity from wind energy is produced when the wind blows and electricity from solar energy is produced when the sun shines, whereas nuclear power can produce when we need it. So you cannot base an energy system solely on solar and wind energy. You have to have a back-up capacity, and there aren't very many options to choose from. There are fossil fuels that have been used in the past, there is nuclear power, and then there is hydropower where it is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114204	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is Mrs Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114205	There are currently negotiations in the Ministry of Climate and Energy on future energy investments, and I just want to know whether New Citizens have come to a single negotiating meeting to promote the desire to have a nuclear power plant in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114225	No, we haven't played out with that. What is being discussed at the moment is how to abolish natural gas plants, and what solutions have already been identified to replace them: district heating, heat pumps, etc. It cannot be solved by building a nuclear power station.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114247	Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114247-2	Okay. That was not really an answer to the question. But let us just come back to the question of whether New Citizens are promoting the view of incorporating nuclear energy into Danish energy planning elsewhere in an annual debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly, because I have not heard that New Citizens have come to a debate and had a proposal or put forward this point of view. New Citizens have done that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114320	No, we haven't, because we think we have to start here. We must have the opportunity to carry out research, and that is what we are proposing with the proposal we are putting forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114332	Thank you. And then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. René Christensen from DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114337	Thank you. Thank you, too, for the rapporteur's speech. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is the case when you read the comments on the proposal and read the text in relation to what we have to vote on, that the text says that nuclear power can be used in energy planning. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur that I also mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech whether one should not try to see whether one could find a compromise; that is, the fact that we are getting the research up and then not making a decision in principle on whether to have it or not, but simply getting more impetus into the research part. And that also requires that some funds be set aside for it, it goes without saying. But will New Citizens be ready for us to try to work with it in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114421	Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114422	Yes, absolutely. In other words, as I have said, the main purpose here is precisely to get the research going, and if we can do so in another way, in relation to the way in which the resolution is based here, we would of course like to be involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511114433	Then I would like to thank Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130003	The meeting is open, and to the young listeners I would like to say that what you are going to attend is Question Time. It's every Wednesday at 9:00 a.m. 1 p.m. and it is the case that Members of Parliament submit a written question no later than Friday noon, and then you meet in this Chamber with the minister to whom you have asked questions. First you have 2 minutes, then you have a couple of laps with 1⁄2 minutes. The first is sir. Alex Vanopslagh, of the Liberal Alliance, who asks questions to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130031	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130035	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's attitude to the National Bank's criticism of the government's economic policy, which leads to increased inflation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130043	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130044	Let me start by stating that the overall economic policy of the government does not lead to increased inflation. Financial policy will be tightened this year and next year, and if Mr. Alex Vanopslagh will take the trouble to look into the financial statement, so it appears here that the financial impact this year is estimated at -1.5 per cent. of bnp and to -0.7 per cent. by bnp next year. This means that we are tightening up, and it is also wise to do so in a situation where there is great pressure on the Danish economy in relation to inflation and other things. So this government is pursuing a very responsible economic policy, where, while the finances are under control, we are not taking measures that help to increase inflation unnecessarily. We also have a situation where we have the highest employment in the history of Denmark, on top of that we have had corona, and at the same time we are here in the midst of the crisis surrounding the Russian war against Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130155	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130156	I think it is gratifying to hear that the government will find the knife of savings and hold back with public spending and tighten up fiscal policy. Because that is one of the tools that can be tackled to curb inflation, so I think that is a good thing. I am also looking forward to hearing where it is that you save, so to speak, where it is that you hold back. One gets a little impression, when one follows the public debate, that if there is to be saved as much as a penny or kept again with any investment or expenses, then it is actually only educators or nurses who can be dismissed at least if it is bourgeois parties that talk about it. So, of course, I shall look forward to that too. Nevertheless, there has been a criticism from the economic wise men and most recently from the National Bank of what the government wants to do. Then you can discuss whether there is a majority for it, but what the government wants to do is to pump some money into the economy without financing it, give some checks to the elderly. There are some of the support parties who believe that more voters should be included. And it has been highly criticised by a number of economic experts, including the National Bank, who say that it is actually the exact opposite that is needed than what the government is proposing, and they are quite, quite concerned. It is clear that it is not the case that the rest of us are simply saying that we will not help the Danes at all. We have said there that we really want to give some tax relief, but they must be fully financed so that it does not increase inflation. The impression has sometimes been given when you have listened not only to the Minister for Finance but also to the Prime Minister that if you make fully funded tax cuts, that is what is economically irresponsible and will increase inflation, and not if you do as the government proposes, namely to give unfunded cheques, which the National Bank criticises. I would just like to hear the Minister for Finance now that the Minister for Finance is also speaking under ministerial responsibility in this Chamber: would the Minister say that it is worse for inflation to make fully funded tax cuts to help the Danes pay their bills than it is to give unfunded cheques to selected electoral groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130349	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130350	First of all, it is important for me to say, as Minister of Finance, that we are pursuing a deeply responsible economic policy that has brought this country safely through the Corona crisis, with the highest level of employment ever, with very low unemployment and with control of public budgets. Now the whole world is hit by inflation, and unfortunately this also applies to Denmark. Putin's war has consequences not only for the people in Ukraine who are affected, but also for Danish citizens. What we have put forward is a balanced approach, while at the same time keeping track of inflation helps in this case pensioners who are particularly hard hit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130432	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130433	It is absolutely true that the government has taken over a healthy economy with good finances. It's not something the government has created. It is true that the economic situation has been in a way that makes unemployment low. It's not something you can thank the government for. When you measure what the effect of government policy is, yes, it is primarily that you pull out labour, that is to say, that you reduce labour supply and, incidentally, have also increased inequality and poverty in Denmark. I would really like to hear: in addition to what I think the Minister of Finance mentioned at the beginning with a little tightening up on fiscal policy, are there really other measures that the government is going to take to curb inflation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130507	Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130508	After all, we have said on the part of the government that it is important that, in a situation where we have inflation that hits as it does, we continue to pursue a responsible economic policy. This means, among other things, that we are in favour of spending a little less on public investment, for example. When it comes to making public investment in the coming years. On the other hand, we believe that there are some people who are badly affected. Therefore, we would like to give pensioners who receive the elderly cheque 5,000 kroner. tax-free, and I hope there will be a majority for that in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130547	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130548	Yes, and there is something that suggests that there is no majority in favour of it, because a number of other parties say: hey, we should listen to the economic wise men when it is the National Bank that says that it will make inflation worse. So we must not do what the Minister of Finance is proposing. After all, the Minister for Finance has been a few years in politics, and I have not, so I would really like to hear whether the Minister for Finance has had a precedent in the past when a finance minister, in this case the current Finance Minister, goes out and says to the parliamentary parties that the government would like to give some cheques to the electorate, and it does not even have to find the money, and then it is the support parties and the Folketing who say: "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Finance Minister, should we take care of the Danish economy? Has it ever happened before that it is the parties that are telling the Finance Minister whether we should not be a little more financially responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130631	Thank you. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130632	I hope that not only the support parties for the government but also the blue parties in the Folketing will be financially responsible. This government is deeply financially responsible. On the other hand, Mr. Alex Vanopslagh a party that will give 100 billion. kr. in tax cuts to the right and left, not least to those who have a lot in advance, and that will mean that we have to cut down on the Danish welfare community, throw our economy up in the air at a time when we are under pressure from all sides, but where things are under control. I would say that I think the Danes prefer the safe hand on the wheel to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's experiments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130710	Thank you. The question is over, but we will continue with the Minister of Finance and with questions from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130716	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130719	It's almost been one big warm-up. The question is: does the Minister think that a government can call itself financially responsible when it is unable to finance its policy with anything other than increased debt?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130731	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130732	I've been looking very much forward to this question, because I'm actually thinking that, uh... Alex Vanopslagh, whom I do not suspect otherwise not to have got involved, has recently failed to read what has been of good articles on Danish economy. Recently, Jyllands-Posten, which cannot be called a government-friendly newspaper, had a headline that read: European champion: Three in a row for Danish economy. Only two countries in the EU had a surplus on the general government balance in 2021 - Denmark has the finest public finances. There's so much money under control. We have surpluses in the Danish economy and the question is whether one can call oneself financially responsible when one is unable to finance one's policy with anything other than increased debt. What is real is that we have a surplus on public finances in Denmark, even to such an extent that the Jyllands-Posten appoints us to be European champions, and I think it is nice to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130835	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511130836	I do not doubt that the government has been so privileged to take over a very good starting point and a healthy economy and has also had a share in the economy. What my doubts are about is whether the government, when it is assessed on its policies, helps to improve the starting point or worsen it by saying: because we have a good starting point, we can call ourselves financially responsible; others have taken care of that, so that we can just start a number of things ourselves where there is expenditure, without finding the money. There are a number of examples of this. The bulk of all is the cost of the 18 billion. kr., as there are every year, i.e. structurally 18 billion. kr. more a year for the Danish defence, where it is proposed that the money should not be found. The heat check was unfunded and is also one of the things that will contribute to increased inflation. There is a proposal for a higher deficit limit in the Budget Act. The pressure from the Ukrainian refugees also leads to disregarding the rules of the budget law, although we did not do the same in relation to Syrian refugees. I just think there is a picture that, yes, the government has a good starting point, and that is why the Finance Minister allows himself a little to play Santa Claus, that is to say gifts can be given out, and you do not need to find the money, because the politicians of the future must take care of that. I do not think that is financially responsible. I am actually a little curious to hear: what is the definition of a financially responsible government by the Minister for Finance? Is it just that the government is taking over some healthy public finances, or is it also that the government is implementing some measures that increase labour supply and strengthen the long-term sustainability of the Danish economy? What really is the government's own definition of financial responsibility when it is not to find money for the costs that you put in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131016	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131017	Well, that's a very long speech from Mr. Knox. Alex Vanopslagh, who just cannot hide the fact that this government has been in office for three years now, and so we are also responsible for what economic policy looks like. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh said that we have had the business cycle with us. I don't know if sir. Alex Vanopslagh has discovered that there has been a corona crisis and that there is now war in Ukraine. I do not think that is the general impression that we have had the economic situation with us. Despite this, Denmark has a European record in managing public finances. We have towering employment, actually the highest ever. I think that is actually a good starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131059	Thank you. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131100	It is also good to clarify that. When I mention the economic situation here, it is because the government often prides itself on the fact that last year we had the highest economic growth in, I do not know how many years. Yes, it was because the previous year there was a corona crisis. It is clear that when you have been negative and go in plus, it seems a lot, but that does not mean that you have pursued a very good policy. But can I at least get the Minister of Finance to acknowledge that the challenges we are facing over the next 30 years, with the hammock effect I do not have time to explain it, but the Minister of Finance agrees with what it is about to propose that more large items of expenditure should be financed without finding the funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131136	Thank you. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131136-2	The policy we are putting forward, and that also applies when we come up with our 2030 plan for the Danish economy later this year, is fully responsible. It is a policy in which we stick to a society in which we look after our welfare for the benefit of our children and the elderly, rather than giving 100 billion. kr. That is why, together with a number of parties, including blue parties, we have made the agreement on defence and security, and we are also addressing the climate crisis. It is a responsible government that does this. We are doing this with a strong starting point, and we are doing it with the certainty that it provides that things are in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131220	It's a good way to get a little longer speaking time by talking while you sit down, isn't it? Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131226	It's a well-trained finance minister we have. We could actually continue in the same groove. But I would just like to change a little bit of track, because I also had the Prime Minister in the Chamber yesterday in relation to the government's economic policy, which is oh so responsible we have our disagreements about that. But one of the consequences of government policy has been an increase in inequality, and the inequality has come from the fact that the poor in Denmark have been made even poorer because of taxes and taxes, not only the tobacco tax, but also other taxes. And I would just like to finish by saying whether it is also part of pursuing a responsible economic policy that we are actually contributing to increased inequality and increased poverty in Denmark, which this government has done?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131302	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131303	After all, it is extraordinary that a representative of a party proposing tax cuts of 100 billion. kr., of which a large part will benefit those who have the most, paid for by very large cuts in the welfare that not least our weakest groups enjoy, stand and call the government an inequality-building government. One of the things we have done is to help ensure that there is the highest level of employment ever in this country. And if there is anything that helps create better conditions for people, both with and without children, then it is that they get a job and can earn their own money every day.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131341	Thank you for that, the question is over, so thank you to the Minister for Finance and thank you, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh. We move on to the next question where it is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, outside the groups, asking questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131353	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131356	Thank you, sir. President. What is the government's position on mink growing in Denmark, will the government allow a resumption of mink growing in Denmark after 1 January 2023 when the temporary ban expires, and will the government announce its decision on the future of mink growing here in Denmark well before the forthcoming parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131420	First of all, many thanks to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby for the question. Let me make it quite clear once again that public health is the only reason why we currently have a temporary ban on mink teams in Denmark. For the government, therefore, public health is also crucial in relation to the consideration of reopening mink production in Denmark. On 3 May 2022, the State Serum Institute has published an updated assessment of the risk to human health by resuming teams of mink in Denmark. In addition, the Danish Veterinary Consortium on 2 May 2022 has made an assessment of a number of infectious measures in relation to mink teams. Both assessments were presented to the Danish Parliament's parties at a technical review on 4 May 2022. We now need calculations from the Department of Food and Resource Economics at the University of Copenhagen. They estimate the cost of the infectious measures assessed by the Statens Serum Institute and the Danish Veterinary Consortium. At the same time, the authorities are examining the material from the Statens Seruminstitut and Dansk Veterinærkonsortium, and once the authorities have received the financial calculations, a proposal for the management of infection on the mink farms will be prepared for possible resumption of mink teams. The future of mink team in Denmark will then be considered. I and the government have only the goal of providing clarification to the mink farmers as soon as possible, but we need to have patience. We need to make sure that we have the best possible basis for this decision, and also in view of everything we have been through so far, it is therefore about making the right decision and doing it as precisely as possible. A decision that we must, of course, have as soon as possible, and of course also in good time before an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131621	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131622	Thank you. I would like to sign for the Minister's answer to the question, although there was not very much new in it. And I also recognise that the government has set a timetable which, strangely enough, was subsequently changed in the context of a political agreement which allowed those minkers who really wanted to start their production again to be put into shame for another 12 months. This, of course, makes it possible for the premises to be able to re-establish their company physically and with a good business case, to be shot a little to the corner, it must be said in a nice way. I have also noted the statement that came with an up-to-date assessment from the Statens Serum Institut here only in May. It was not many days ago, but I think the Minister should nevertheless answer this question about the premises for reopening the mink industry in Denmark for those who would like it. Now the excuse is that you are waiting for some other explanations, and only when they are back will there be a definitive basis for decision, says the Minister, who then makes it possible to report to those mink growers who have chosen the hibernation model, i.e. these, what is it, 25 growers. And then there are probably many people who might consider starting up new businesses in mink, but that is what time has to show. However, does the Minister himself consider that due consideration has been given to the agreement reached in relation to postponing the final decisions for 12 months, which have, of course, had quite significant consequences for all the different types of companies and potential new companies here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131820	The very great culpable consideration we have sought to take from the government is the consideration of the well-being of the Danes, the health of the Danes, the fact that you do not become infected with covid-19 from mink farms. What we saw when the temporary ban was adopted was that the infection jumped from mink farm to mink farm like a steppe fire. That is why we had to intervene. There has been no question of putting anyone in the corner of shame when the temporary ban was extended. It was simply because the State Serum Institute was still worried about public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131856	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131857	It will be, of course, depending on the approach one has to it • whether one takes due consideration or not, or whether one is actively working to speed up the final decisions. That is where I have at least my concern about whether the government like to use these things in a legitimate way or whether the decision-making process is indirectly trained. Because I think it is strange that we have now received this report from the Statens Serum Institute on 3 May that it could not give farmers and new growers some clarification, instead of just being told that we have to wait for some other studies before a decision will be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131938	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511131939	This is where we got the new report last week. It's a comprehensive report. We had the first meeting with the rapporteurs where we went through this. We have also commissioned a report to look at the economy, and it will come tomorrow I think it is tomorrow that we will have the final report. There's also an invitation to a meeting where we go through it. So it's a matter of days, or at most weeks, before we can have a clarification on this field. I fully understand the frustration and impatience, but we are trying to do so as quickly as possible, but also in a way that avoids haste becoming a burden.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132018	Thank you. Hans Kristian Skibby for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132019	Well, I recognize the Minister's words, and it's also those I think stand for believers I know you as a good person. However, this does not alter the fact that I have noted that some of the parliamentary support parties which the government and the Minister lean on and which they have to take due account of, Enhedslisten and SF, have said that they want this simply to be used as a legitimisation of a definite ban on mink breeding in Denmark forward-looking, and that is where my concern lies most.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132050	Now I have had the opportunity to repeat sometimes in this Chamber that what has been the whole starting point, the concern we have wanted to show by the government, was the concern for the well-being of the Danes, the concern for public health. And that is why, for a period of time, we have had a temporary ban on mink teams. And when the infection situation is different, and that is what we are about to clarify now... there is a possibility that you might be able to start up again. That is what we need to discuss and look into what is possible. That is quite a few of the more than 1,200 mink growers who have chosen to hibernate. I mean, it's... Thank you!).
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132126	Thank you, Minister. The question is over. But we will continue with a question to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and that remains Mr. His Kristian Skibby, who is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132134	Please read the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132136	Thank you, sir. President. How does the Minister feel about the payments of compensations and compensations to the mink growers and companies affected, who lost their earnings in connection with the government's strongly debated decision to ban mink growing in Denmark, which was taken almost overnight?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132156	Again, thank you to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby for the question. Let me stress that the authorities are doing everything they can to ensure that mink farmers receive their compensation as soon as possible. The decision on compensation and compensation for mink farmers is taken on the one hand by the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority and on the other by the Commissions for Compensation and Tax. The status is that the Danish Food Authority has paid out approx. 6 billion kr. in compensation and compensation for mink farmers. This applies, among other things, to: skin replacement, operating loss compensation and payment of advances on decommissioning compensation and closing costs. On average, the mink growers who received an advance on the decommissioning compensation received approx. 4 million kr. The Danish Food Authority expects to complete the final cases of payment of advances on decommissioning compensation to mink growers before the summer holidays. So the Food Authority has come a long way, even though they are not yet fully in the finish line. It is expected that mink growers will receive the first payments of the final decommissioning compensation after the summer break. This will be done on the basis of the decision of the Commissions of Compensation and Duty. In relation to the auxiliary activities, the compensation and tax commissions are also working on high pressure to deal with the requests for compensation received. It is extremely extensive procedure to be carried out by the Commissions. These are important decisions which correspond to the assessment to be made in a business transaction. It must be done properly and on a properly informed basis. That's why I'm afraid it's gonna take a while. But rather do it properly the first time than rush something through, so you get this situation of haste that becomes cargo. That is also what the mink growers themselves have been asking for, so rather do it properly from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132346	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132348	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Among other things, I am sensitive. by the article that was on the Jutland West Coast on April 14 this year. Here, among other things, there were: an interview with one of the mink growers referred to, who is involved in the 25 test cases procedure, which must be examined in particular in relation to laying down a level and premise of what must be included in these criteria in order to assess what is to be compensated for and how things should be valued. I understand that, too. At the same time, I note that an e-mail from the head of the secretariat says that there are, among other things. are detailed calculations and documentation requirements which delay the process for the 25 test cases mentioned here. I do not know how much the minister has been involved in that part of it, but as it has been presented to me in an example, it can be seen that those who are going out and carrying out these test cases are assessors, and some of them also have a professional ballast, even in a relatively small Danish mink holding having to review more than 800 pages due to the complexity of the case involved in the compensation assessment case in question. There I am fundamentally concerned about what this gives for the legal position of the many, many mink growers. There are some who seem to be at the end of the queue in relation to having their total compensation case dealt with, where it is clearly feared that it is not months, but years and days that have to pass before they are given an economic certainty as to how things really are going and where they stand in terms of compensation, and that is in a situation which, among other things, is. is produced by the illegal decisions of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132551	Thank you. Then we get the answer from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132553	I can easily understand the frustration that one can have when one is in the midst of such an unhappy situation that one has closed one's profession. We must also bear in mind that a broad agreement has been reached in the Folketing, which saw Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby chose to stand outside, but where we actually spend 19 billion. kr. of the Danes' money to give a full and a full replacement. When you spend so much money, I also think that there is an expectation that we will meet some requirements for precision here. In fact, things are moving fast in this area. These are nice numbers we have. I'm not allowed to talk about that now, but it may be that I can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132631	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132632	What we're hearing from the minister here is a record of phonographs. There's nothing new about that. I'm just gonna be aware that when these examples come from some of these 25 cases, which it says, in relation to this special improvement character with treatment, there are, among other things, that there are. I referred earlier to the JydskeVest Coast where the minkkeeper has already been delayed by his mink business twice. Not just once, but twice you've postponed that treatment. If there is already a problem now, when we have hardly begun the overall taxation of these hundreds of companies, then I suppose the Minister can share my concern about what that means for those who are at the bottom of the line.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132714	Thank you. Then we'll get the minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132715	We are trying to take note of concerns and work hard to help everyone so that they get the most fair treatment and also the fastest treatment. But I just want to make a few cuts on some figures... I didn't get the opportunity to mention them before... and say that when we talk about the final skin replacement, we're actually in the goal of over 98 percent. of the cases. So when we talk about decommissioning costs, which is the very big item, we are more than 74 per cent paid out. And compared to the tempo bonus, it's over 99 percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132749	Hans Kristian Skibby for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132751	Yes, but of course it has to be a final comment, and then you can take it as a question or not. But I certainly hope that the Minister is aware of something. Now, of course, I am independent here in the Folketing at the moment, but that does not change the fact that as politicians we have an approach to what is going to happen. After all, my colleague in our cooperation group of independents, Karina Adsbøl, has also asked the Minister about the overall economy, which is behind the overall agreement reached by the majority of this Parliament. I just want the Minister to confirm that reply is soon on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132825	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132826	We're trying to answer everything that's being asked. We only want answers to be given quickly as well. It is true that it was a great deal of compensation that was agreed, but it was also only fair in a situation where, because of public health, it was necessary to proceed as drastically as to impose a temporary ban on mink teams, in other words that there was also a full and complete compensation. I am proud that we have come to terms with that, but it is also a lot of money. Therefore, it is also important that we keep our tongues straight in our mouths and do so as correctly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132857	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, but now it is Mrs Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132909	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132912	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that the government's slowness in closing cases of compensation for the government's closure of mink farms prevents urban development in areas close to the closed mink farms due to maintaining the mink farm's environmental approval with odour limit values?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511132932	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Bjerre for her question. This question is based on a premise that the government is reluctant to close the proceedings for the payment of compensation to mink growers. I simply do not agree with that paragraph, according to the answers I gave to Mr McMillan-Scott. Hans Kristian Skibby before. On the contrary, we are doing everything we can to ensure that mink growers receive their compensation as soon as possible, which the figures also show with all due clarity. The Danish Food Authority has at present paid out a total of 6 billion. kr. in compensation and compensation for mink farmers. This applies, among other things, to: skin replacement, operating loss compensation and payment of advances on decommissioning compensation and closing costs. The Danish Food Authority expects to complete the final cases of payment of advances on decommissioning compensation to mink growers before the summer holidays. In addition, the first payments of the final decommissioning compensation to mink growers are expected to be made after the summer break. This will be done on the basis of the decision of the Commissions of Compensation and Duty. Then there is the question of whether I agree that the closure of the claims is a barrier to urban development. On this point, I would like to emphasise that it is a prerequisite for former mink growers to be able to obtain compensation for decommissioning, that the operation of mink companies is permanently shut down from 1 January 2021. This means that the environmental approval or animal approval granted to these mink growers is no longer in use. That is why I find it very difficult to see that there should be obstacles to urban development associated with these permits, because the authorisations no longer apply. I can tell you, moreover, that the environmental authorisations or animal authorisations of mink farmers are governed by the Environmental Protection Act and the Farming Act. These rules are the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. In addition, planning by the municipalities under the planning law is the responsibility of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Housing. I am not aware of approvals which give rise to problems in relation to urban development. We have sometimes asked, but if it is the case that the questioner has specific examples, we are, of course, happy to listen to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133142	Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133143	Thank you for your answer, and I am very pleased that I will have the opportunity to raise this matter. In fact, when I want to raise the matter, it is because there is a very specific local case behind which such environmental approval is a barrier to local urban development. The thing is, in Nørager, there was a mink farm right on the outskirts of town. The mink farm is now forced down, and you don't want to have mink again. I know the owner, and the owner has informed the municipality in writing that you do not want to have mink again. Right next door, there's a nursery. The owners want to sell the nursery. It is an older couple who have reached retirement age. You really want to build new houses here. You would really like to build 35 new townhouses in Nørager, which is an attractive city that many people move to. Nørager is located in Rebild Municipality, where there is population growth. There are lots of families with children moving here. When a parcel house is for sale in Nørager, it smokes in a few days. You're then told that you can't build on this land where this horticulture is, because it's right next to a property where there's an environmental permit for mink teams. What you're told is that when there's such an environmental permit, there's a smell limit, and you can't build residential buildings within this smell limit because there's smell genes. But there's no mink anymore, so it's not a smell gene. So my question is: can it really be true that such environmental approval is an obstacle to city development in Nørager? And do we really have to wait for the mink growers' claims to be completely closed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133318	I think this is an example of the fact that it is very good that we have Question Time in the Folketing where we can get these specific cases up. What we have examined in my ministry is that when it is the case that you have said yes to shutting down completely, the environmental approval you have will be lifted. Therefore, there is something that suggests that the municipality of Rebild administers according to a wrong interpretation, but we must try to be in a dialogue about that. I'd like to try to write to the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Interior and try to see if there can be a depeche to the municipalities about how we deal with these cases so that we don't get into a situation like Nørager.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133357	Thank you. The minister just got a little longer here, because when you have to involve three ministries, you have to get around it all. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133403	Thank you. I think that sounds like a positive response. I would like to acknowledge that. And the reason I am standing here today is, in fact, that I hope that the Minister will take this matter back to his desk and see if anything can be done. I know that the Minister himself has been elected in North Jutland and is concerned that we can develop the smaller cities that are in our society, and this is therefore a huge obstacle. And it seems crazy that such a dead mink farm can still be allowed to live on. So I understand that the Minister will take the matter further and examine what can be done here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133441	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133443	There may be very special reasons why you have chosen to do so in the municipality of Rebild, and that this is the case in Nørager. But I think we should have the dialogue and try to clarify this. As I understand the rulebook, we should be able to embark on different urban planning, taking the mink farm out of the equation because it has ceased.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133459	There is one last question, Mrs Bjerre, if that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133502	Yes, because I can confirm that the municipality has chosen to include the area in the municipal plan. It is therefore located in the area where you want to develop and build residential buildings, so it makes great sense to build new buildings. But what we are told is that the mink farm must be completely closed because the environmental permit will continue to work until then.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133526	So that is not the interpretation in my ministry. But now we do it because of the question put by the questioner here that we write to the Ministry of the Environment, we write to the Ministry of the Interior, and then we try to get communication out to the municipalities, so as to avoid any other similar cases where something that is absolutely necessary and reasonable is delayed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133545	The question has been settled in a happy way, thank you for that. Thank you, Mrs Bjerre, to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Then we move on to the next question. It's for the Minister of Culture, and it's by Mr. Simpson. Stén Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133600	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133603	What is the Minister's position on the fact that the main associations that the Minister has asked to make proposals to ease the burden on associations actually made proposals both in 2019, as we see here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133639	Thank you. I believe that the organisations, associations and volunteers we are talking about here are in many ways the backbone of some of the special Danish that we have, namely association life. Therefore, the input to which the questioner refers has been good, whether it is DIF, DUF and DGI's 2019 volunteering initiative, which I assume is what the questioner refers to, or it is the project of the Danish People's Education Council from 2021, but also the conference held on the association life in 2021 under my predecessor. It has all provided important input. In addition, there has already been a process of a number of simplifications to make it easier to be voluntary in Denmark. And a lot has already been done, including the setting up of a Working Group under Finance Denmark in relation to money laundering rules and all that is in the category that is difficult to go to, but which is important because it causes trouble in many places. But I also feel that I do not think we are going to solve this with a single play or conference or a single conversation or a single working group. On the contrary, I have such a feeling that if we politically just let things run without this focus, we would slowly build on and build on. It seems a bit like it's a law of nature that bureaucracy is growing. That is why I think, and I will do so on my watch, that I will have a continuous, continuous, constant focus on being sure that the rules we have are necessary and that where they are experienced as difficult to go to for our volunteers, you actually also have help and guidance so that it is as easy as possible. That's what we're going to do with this. There has not been such a study of what the author refers to. So it's And I think it's important to get that input so that we can also start from the experience of the individual volunteers out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133830	Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511133830-2	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I think we share the same ambition. I have heard the Minister say this before, namely that the ambitions that we have as a party and which I have as a person have also been seen by the Minister. The Minister mentions that much has been done, and perhaps that is where we disagree, because we do not really think that much has happened. We in the Left have had four motions for resolutions in this Chamber. The first came in 2020, when we had 14 specific items on the agenda, and everyone was talking about which was fine if we could do something about it but nothing happened. The government didn't take hold. Then we had a proposal on GDPR and money laundering. Yes, a working group has been set up and there are also some proposals and a hearing is under way. When I read the hearing answers that have been delivered here, there is a strong concern about whether we are going to achieve what we want at all in relation to this issue of money laundering rules. Then we have had a proposal about one entry point. In other words, should the associations that make markets in our country on weekends, where they gather people and there are traded, and where a small crown or two are also earned for association, not be able to have one entrance to the public, instead of having to run to 14 agencies to get to create their markets? That suggestion was poured off the board. But we now have a motion for a resolution tomorrow dealing with tax exemptions for certain associations. And perhaps we could start by putting some weight behind the words that I also think the Minister agrees with, namely that we will have to act on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134007	The minister. The Double Punishment
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134008	If I were to be a little brazen, I would say that there is not much less process in making motions for resolutions than resorting to concrete involving processes which should also make us wiser. I think we're trying to do something from both sides. We are also engaging, and I see the author's party as well. And we are actually trying to address what we then experience being pointed out out out there as concrete problems. It is quite fair to think that the government should have done even more. I come with the most open door and the most outstretched hand in terms of really sincere signals that every one of the inputs that comes, I'm willing to be a part of looking at the • and I'm not going to say that now we're in the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134049	Then it's mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134050	Thank you. There's a process going on. Tomorrow, we can make a good decision to exempt some associations from having to deal with tax rules instead of ensuring that children and young people and those who are in our society can do something sensible. I should like to return to the process initiated by the Minister. What's the rear end of it? What is to be expected in society? When is something going to happen in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134118-2	It will be a relatively short process in which we hope that as many of those who experience the trouble will bid. This can be done until 20 May, in cooperation with the Danish Sports Association and a large number of the other federations, including Danish Company Sport and DGI etc. Then we will spend the presummer on really getting the data systematized so that as soon as we meet after the summer break, we have a better data base. We are, of course, going down in this with the associations. And we have taken a great deal of action in the area of the Ministry of Culture, because it is also where I can do something on the shortest possible level.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134158	Then it's mr. Stén Knuth for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134159	Thank you. I understand perfectly well that the Minister cannot answer when something is going to happen, because that was a very long explanation for perhaps something coming at some point. I think that the Minister must also be aware that we, as parties and I as a person, will be stuck in this agenda and ensure that something is done about what we are running and saying to each other, namely that we want to have some action on this, so that there is less trouble in our Association Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134227	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134228	But I want nothing but to make sure that the volunteers we have landed across, who create communities and create space for people, especially children and young people, can spend as much time on that very thing, and that the rules we have, some of which may be quite necessary, for example. The law on child certificates must be in the easiest form possible, so that they can go to it and spend their time on what makes the most sense out there. I have a very great ambition to provide for this, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134254	The question is over. But we continue with questions to the Minister for Culture, and it is still gone by Mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134302	Please read the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134304	Since there is enormous potential in e-sports and gaming, but also challenges, I would like to hear from the Minister about what challenges the Minister sees, and does the Minister believe that the Folketing should help to ensure a secure environment for children and young people who practice e-sport, which could be through a national e-sport strategy where it was one of the elements?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134326	I agree with the questioner that e-sport must be able to be done in a safe environment. But now the questioner asks what kind of challenges I see, and then it becomes a bit like putting on the no-hat, but I see a number of challenges. I see that it can basically do that our children or young people in particular are sitting very quietly behind a screen instead of moving. It can cause physical impairments in the wrists, shoulders, back and neck. It also in the long term causes some health problems and a risk of diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, etc. There is also the whole problem, which we have seen studies of, of the fact that behind the screen there is growing potential to talk incredibly ugly to each other, especially to our girls and women. And then there is the inherent challenge of e-sport that the game titles are owned by large international companies, which determine the rules and conditions of the games and which do not contain a basic structure of democracy, and this makes it more difficult to seek influence on the structure of the games. And, of course, as with everything else, there are doping, cheating, match fixing etc. So there are a number of challenges. In fact, I also believe that there are a number of structures and measures that help to ensure that this safe framework can also be found out there, namely in the communities with friends and in the associations, clubs and educational institutions. In this respect too, I am delighted to note that local e-sports associations, for example, are operating in this respect. gets local activity and local grants and helps to secure these frameworks. And then we also support some of those who are actually working for security in this area of distribution and finance • DIF, DGI, Danish Company Sports, Esport Denmark • so that they can help build, among other things. Ethical code of e-sports.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134530	Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134531	Thank you and thank you to the Minister for your reply. I recognise and respect the Minister's commitment to the challenges that lie ahead. I might also mention a few more, which we need to look at addiction; contracts for young people who are simply not worth the paper they stand on; that you can also buy and sell inside these games in such closed circuits where Mom and Dad can't see what is going on; young people who earn a lot of money and suddenly become aware that they have to do both accounting and VAT records. So there are enough challenges. I am also pleased that the Minister recognizes, of course, that there is a potential that is wild. And there is. At least we have seen that, and we want to support it. When I say this here, it is also because today we have had a follow-up to the recent hearing held by the Danish Parliament on e-sport, where it was almost clearly pointed out that a Parliament will also have to take this on itself. It may well be that it is with a strategy that triggers the Minister, who does not want to be involved, but then let us make a plan of action. There is certainly a need for us to set out some directions here, where we both get support for what is potential, but that we also get a look at the challenges that are. As Parliament, we have to take that on board, so we do something other than say "I'm sorry," Minister, that it's gonna be okay and there's a lot of good work going on out there. And there is, but there is also a need for a Parliament to take this on itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134710	But you don't hear me say it's gonna be okay. On the contrary, I also have a fundamental concern about some of the challenges raised by the questioner. In the context of the problem of growing screen time, there is also something about dependence and the absence of other activities, including the fact that you are actually physically together in some communities. There are plenty of challenges that I think it is a political task to discuss and also to address, so I will not reject that at all. What can sometimes trigger me a little is if you say that there is a huge potential, let's make a strategy that unfolds how much money we can make from this, and then you miss the look at the back of some of our children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134750	Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134750-2	I do not think I can follow the point made by the Minister. But peace be with it. It may be that we are allowed to discuss it further. We can just see that there is a youth culture that roars out there, and commercial players who create a lot of jobs and also provide a lot of economics for Denmark. There are schools using this to capture the young people in relation to inclusion. Vulnerable and disabled people suddenly get some rooms where they are all equal. So I would ask the Minister to provide some answers on how to solve those challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134832	Then we'll get the minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134834	I think that we are, among other things. solves it by making sure that the forces that are out there, who are just trying to get it organized, put it in a secure environment and create some communities around e-sporting, will also be there tomorrow financially. And that's one of the things we do. do both on the Finance Act and with the distribution funds and also with the municipal grants.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134855	Sir. Stén Knuth, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134857	Thank you. It's gonna be more of a comment. In fact, in the Left, we believe that gaming and e-sports have got hold of young people in a way that we have no idea about. We also believe that we need to listen to all experts, and we also believe that we need to make a strategy where those experts can make recommendations on what sort of clues we need to pursue, both when it comes to exploiting and supporting the potential there is, but also to look at the challenges that are clearly there. And that was confirmed today with the follow-up to the hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134931	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134931-2	Thank you for that and also thank you for seeing the questioner not only seeing the big business adventure that lies here, but actually also seeing that we have a generation of children and young people who are also at risk of getting some other things out of this which is less appropriate and where we, as a society, also have a responsibility to actually create a healthy and secure framework for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511134951	The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Stén Knuth. We move on to questions to the church minister, and the questioner is Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135000	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135003	Thank you for that, President. Will the Minister help to ensure that there will also be a crematorium on Bornholm in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135009	Thank you for the question. First of all, with the church minister's hat, I would like to state that crematorium operations are part of the task of running the funeral service. The Crematorial Company in Denmark is exercised as a task of authority in connection with cemetery operations, and therefore it is also a local task both to build, operate, but also to maintain crematoria. And the exact cost of this is borne locally. This means that the local church fund or, if it is the municipality that runs the crematorium, the local municipal fund bears the costs. The rates for cremation are also set locally, and the revenues from cremation are paid to the church fund or the municipality fund. The church minister is to approve the construction of new crematories, but there is no possibility in the ecclesiastical legislation that the church minister may grant grants from the joint fund for the construction of new crematories. There is also no pool on the Finance Act for the purpose. I think we know that at Bornholm, but I am well aware that the crematorium at Bornholm is challenged in relation to the existing technical installations, where, as I understand it, the oven is ripe for replacement. These are some locally anchored decisions, but I am quite sure that a good local solution will also be found in relation to the specific challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135130	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135131	Thank you. The reason why I am asking the question is that the crematorium must either be replaced or modernised. And that is because the technical installations are no longer up to date, but also because the filters that clean the smoke need a replacement. A new crematorium will cost 20-30 million. kr., and the money Bornholm's Provinsti, assisted by the municipality, cannot just find itself. The alternative to a Bornholm solution is a solution in Ringsted. Can the Minister understand that, as an island, we want a Bornholm solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135203-2	Yes, the Minister understands that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135209	But the Minister also knows it must be known to the Minister that neither the minister has the money of the order of magnitude to be able to renovate a crematorium, and the municipality may not have the funds for this either. Will the Minister consider, when the Finance Act is to be drawn up next time, putting a one-off grant on for a new crematorium on Bornholm?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135231	It is often the case, within the ecclesiastical framework, that it is the common fund that can be used for extraordinary expenses or to support extraordinary projects, or else it is the local boxes. In this particular case, there is no authority to grant this kind of aid from the Joint Fund. I am sure that with the challenges of the local crematorium, and I recognise them, good local solutions can be found. I hear that's in process, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135311	Thank you. Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135312	Yes, but I have also heard that it is becoming a little difficult to get these ends to be reached, also because the derogation you have been driving on can no longer be extended. It could perhaps be something that the Minister could deal with a little, i.e. whether that derogation could be continued. But Minister, it is also important that we in rural areas, where every day we fight to make things work together, try to find the best and the easiest way to find the good solutions. Sometimes the resistance, the struggle to preserve the institutions that make you an entire society, can become huge. The Minister has a past as Minister of Education and knows that we have done a lot to get education into rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135358	Then it's time for us to get a minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135359	Thank you to the questioner and also thank you for the commitment of the questioner that we actually have a country in balance where you can live your whole good life, whether it is in the big cities or in the smaller communities. I think that the church actually contributes enormously to it around a lot of villages and a lot of smaller parishes in our country. There are some places where the church is almost the only thing left, where the use, the kindergarten and the bus are going away. That is why it is also important to me that we continue to have a strong local church in Denmark, but part of it also means that many of the decisions, and hence also the responsibility, lie out locally. That is why I am not in favour of deviating from those principles either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135436	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the church minister. Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen. We move on to the next question, which is addressed to the Minister for Employment by Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135447	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135450	Will the Minister explain what steps will be taken by the government to ensure that Ukrainian refugees are not exploited in the form of, for example: work on terms and conditions of employment that are significantly lower than the usual conditions on the Danish labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135513	Thank you very much for the question. As I think the rapporteur is aware, I am, of course, very concerned that work in Denmark takes place on proper pay and working conditions, regardless of which country a person comes from, and we have a special responsibility to help those who have been displaced from Ukraine when they come to Denmark. We in Denmark do not have a statutory minimum wage, but of course Ukrainians should not be underpaid and exploited by unscrupulous employers. The government has established a partnership with the social partners on Ukrainians in jobs, and this was among other things. with the intention that we should focus on among others. challenges with underpayment. That is why I would also like to raise the issue with the social partners in the discussions in the partnership on Ukraine and with the Labour Inspectorate. Finally, I would like to make a clear call to employers who are considering taking advantage of the many Ukrainians who have come to Denmark: behave now properly and do not exploit people in an unhappy situation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135618	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135619	In other words, we must welcome the Ukrainian refugees, and we must strike down the greedy employers, the cynical intermediaries, and we must do so in the interests of the individual fleeing Ukraine, in order to defend our orderly and regulated labour market and avoid getting into such a downward spiral, but we must also do so in order to ensure fair and equal conditions of competition, so that the good and the regulation of companies also have a chance. The conclusion is that we should never accept the growth of a new working subclass. One of them I'm here with, and these are ads where you'll find this one from Work in Denmark, which offers wages of between DKK 11,200. and DKr 13,500. for a 40-hour week, and it also costs the individual Ukrainians DKK 750. to be allowed to be assigned a job. Other adverts are from a company called Arbejdsrente, and in both places you operate with hourly wages ranging from DKK 70-85. in an hour, that is, within the vicinity of what we give a young worker in Denmark. I see that Associate Professor Jens Arnholtz to Fagbladet 3F says that foreign workers have a very small negotiating room. It must be understood that this basic wage, but they do not have the same opportunity as Danish employees to trade in higher wages. Professor Jacob Nielsen Arendt also tells Fagbladet 3F that this can affect families and children if they have to live in such poverty over a long period of time. Faced with this, the owner of Work Rental, Andreas Kauders, who first sees no problems and then just says: We offer cheap labor to our customers. So what do we have to do to hit them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135814	First of all, I have also noted, in fact also with pleasure, that employers, i.e. in the form of Danish Industry, have been out to say, also in the trade paper 3F, that this is unacceptable and that it is not right. I hope the rapporteur has taken note of that too. In addition, what distinguishes this situation, I think, is that it should be borne in mind that the Ukrainians who have been resident under the special law do not have a work permit linked to their stay, which means that they can opt out of those jobs at any time. In addition, if they are to do so, it requires organization and information from the authorities sitting and organizing by the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135853	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135854	I fully agree with the Minister, but one of the challenges is that only one in three Ukrainians is in a union. And as well as we can see on the one hand that there are just these greedy employers and intermediaries who do not cloud any funds to get their hands on quick profits, there are of course also • and fortunately there are a lot of organized employers who want to arrange conditions on the Danish labour market and who themselves contribute to our having these regulated conditions. But what I'm going to discuss with the minister is what we can do to knock down these employers and these temporary agencies that rent at these dumping prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511135926	I agree that employers who take advantage of vulnerable workers, no matter where they come from, and under what circumstances they are here, must be severely hit. But as far as the Ukrainians are concerned, we have to start somewhere else. And there it is important to inform the Ukrainians who come to Denmark so that they know about their rights and their claims on the Danish labour market. For example: When applying for a residence permit, they are provided with a guide on the Danish labour market and also the way to find a job in Denmark. And we are doing everything we can to inform you about it, because it is the knowledge that enables them to also reject unfair wages and unfair working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140002	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140004	Well, that is true, and I certainly also recognise that the Minister has appointed a particularly warm geographical place where the Minister wants these employers to take advantage of these people. And I'd like to give you a hand in every way I can to get them to this hot place as soon as possible. But it is just pointless to a relatively vulnerable group of employees to say that they can just negotiate more. Often they will not be able to do so, and therefore they are at the mercy of these temporary agency agencies and at the mercy of these employers who are whistlingly indifferent to the regulated conditions on the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140035	Yeah, I agree with everything Karsten Hønge says. I just think it is important to remember that they are not at the mercy of Ukrainian employees in Denmark before the special law was passed. Because at that time, an employer who had unclean flour in the bag could say: you just have to accept these bad conditions and this bad salary, because if you don't, I'll take your work permit from you, and with your work permit taken from you, you'll also lose your residence in Denmark. With the special law, the Ukrainians have first and foremost a basis for residence and, at the same time, an opportunity to work. But no employer can push them on the basis of the basis of residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140113	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Karsten Hønge. We move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Karsten Hønge Will the Minister explain what action the government will take...). I'm sorry, I'm the one who came to say the wrong thing. It is actually Mrs Anni Mattiesen's turn first. Sorry, there's just a little wait here. The question is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and this is put by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140146	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140151	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that there are still major challenges with long waiting times for the issue of residence permits for Ukrainian refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140203	Thank you for the question. Denmark has a major task in receiving the historically many displaced persons from the war in Ukraine, and I am very keen that Ukrainians, who are covered by the special law, should be granted a residence permit as soon as possible so that they can enter Danish society. This is an important priority for the government. For this reason, the Foreigners' Agency is in the process of granting residence permits under the special law, so that people who have been expelled from Ukraine can have access to our society. In order to ensure speedy processing, the authorities have continuously worked to expand with new times for the admission of biometrics to applications, and the authorities have also had pop-ups in Esbjerg, Skive and Thisted. At the same time, additional staff resources have been collected from both the Foreigners' Board and elsewhere in the Foreigners' and Integration Ministry's Group for the case-file. I recognise that the processing of residence permits for displaced persons from Ukraine takes a long time, but the government has ensured that displaced persons coming from Ukraine who have applied for residence permits under the special law and who have been admitted biometrics can start to work while their application is being examined. This allows companies to employ Ukrainians already under the special law. Many Ukrainians in Denmark want to get to work, so I am really glad that there is an opportunity for them to get to work more quickly and that they should not wait for them to be granted a residence permit. At the same time, I am pleased that the immigration authorities are making an extraordinary effort to deal with applications under the special law so that Ukrainians can come out and take part in our society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140335	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140337	I would like to start by saying that I was very pleased when I put the question here on 20 April to the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, whether it was not possible for the Ukrainian refugees to be able to move more quickly into the labour market. It has to be said that this has been resolved. You may say yes to work, even if you do not have the paper and residence permit in your hand. I now come to some examples of problems which must be resolved in some way. It's in relation to getting an apartment. After all, the municipalities use the reason that as long as they cannot prove that they have a residence permit, it may be difficult for the municipalities to designate a residence. I have a concrete example from Kolding Municipality, where there have been private people who have been so kind to help, but who then find themselves in a special situation which means that the Ukrainian families cannot stay with them. They are then given the answer that as long as they have not received the papers and the residence permit, the only way is to drive them back to Padborg. Then they must stay there until they get the papers, even though their children have started school in Kolding. Is there some kind of opportunity for • just as you helped them out more quickly into the labour market • that you could also secure the other things? It is, for example, when we are talking about housing. I also know that getting an account number in a financial institution is a difficult task. Even if they have got a job, they can't even put their salary into the bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140530	I would like to look into what the possibilities are, but I would also like to say that there is a difference. After all, getting a job is also important in the process of being assigned to a municipality in such a way that if, for example, you have found a job in Kolding Municipality, you have the certainty of being able to stay in Kolding Municipality, whereas those who are not in work may risk if Kolding municipality's quota is just filled, then being referred to another municipality. That is why I think it is important that the factors come in the right order. But I would like to look into what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140606	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140607	Thank you. I would be very happy if the Minister would try to investigate it, because I also hear some examples of Ukrainian refugees being playing ball between the municipalities in these days. I know that in the end it also has something to do with what the municipalities get out of it. It is perhaps mostly in the area that the minister had to do in the past, but in the end it is the Ukrainian refugees that are affected. Yesterday I heard an example of some who had been forced away to another municipality, and I find that unfortunate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140643	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140643-2	The guideline is that as a refugee you can cross where you want to live as far as possible. As far as possible, you try to give people the opportunity to live where they want, and if they cannot live there, then at least in the same part of the country, but because there is an unequal search pattern there are more seeking in northwest Jutland than there are, for example. is on South Zealand • there will have to be some people moved around. But we are trying to do it in a way so that people can get close and so that it does not become a municipal economic money move around the landscape.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140717	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140718	Thank you. At the end of the day, I would like to confirm what I think the Minister said. Does this mean that if you have a job, you are also guaranteed a residence in the municipality in which you work? Is that what's the key to being able to say to the municipality: So you're also going to give me a place to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140741	I wish it were so easy, but the fact is that it is certainly what is certain that you can be assigned and placed in that municipality, but how the municipality itself solves the housing position of the Ukrainians who are in the municipality is very different. In the municipality where we are now, for example, a spa resort is built on Amager Strandvej to house people, and this is not necessarily the accommodation offer that most people start by wanting to visit a hotel. So, unfortunately, this does not necessarily mean that we can have what we consider to be housing in general, such as housing. a general dwelling or equivalent somewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140813	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We continue with questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and now Mr. Karsten Hønge back.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140820	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140823	Thank you. Will the Minister explain what steps will be taken by the government to ensure that there is no wage dumping for Ukrainians who are already working in the country, including in agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511140835	Thank you for the question. Ukrainians who are currently staying in Denmark, either on a professional basis, as students, as family members or as accompanying family members of a worker, who lose their residence permit, for example because the residence permit is withdrawn or cannot be extended, have the opportunity to apply for a residence permit under the law on temporary residence permits for persons who have been expelled from Ukraine; what we know as the special law. There will probably be several of the Ukrainian residents who will wish to change their place of residence to some extent and apply for temporary residence permits under the special law within their residence and work permit when it ends. There is nothing to prevent that. Ukrainian agricultural practitioners, for example, must: know that they are welcome to stay in Denmark as long as the displaced people who come here from Ukraine, even if their internship runs out. We have an obligation to jointly carry out the task of the Ukrainian citizens in a proper and dignified manner. This is also the case, even if we do not make demands on pay and working conditions in relation to foreign law, as we do if, for example, we do. has a residence and work permit where you make some other and clearer demands. However, on the part of the government, we have a clear expectation that the Ukrainian citizens who apply for a residence permit under the special law will, of course, be working under orderly conditions. With recent initiatives, we have made it possible, at the request of Danish industry, for Ukrainian citizens to start work while their application is being examined. It is, of course, a declaration of confidence in the Danish labour market, and we hope that Danish companies will welcome the Ukrainians who want to work quickly and contribute to our society, because no one can be served by the Ukrainian citizens being exploited by being offered unfair pay and working conditions. That is why, following on from my colleague, I can only appeal to the best of the business community when hiring Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141023	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141024	Here I would like to start by saying that hope is not a strategy, because the hope that people out there are just doing the right thing is not what you should lean on too much. Then I would like to say that the debate on these occupational schemes has been going on for years and we have had a lot of negotiations, and now we have landed on a model that has been accepted by the social partners and supported by a majority here in the Danish Parliament. After all, our challenge is now that there are some out there who speculate in cunning jumping actions to get their hands on an even greater profit. And it has been exposed by among others. and perhaps especially 3F's professional magazine. We just have to say that with the scheme we have today, feed masters must have a total salary of at least DKr 9,600, but there is a danger that the Ukrainians who are in the country will, under this feed master's scheme, have a significant wage cut if they are no longer entitled to this wage, but instead have to agree their wages themselves with the employers. By the way, the Ukrainians account for 94 per cent. of all the foreigners who are in the country on the feed master and operator scheme • actually approx. 4,500 people. I'm here with a press release from a consulting company called SAGRO. They write about themselves: Strong agricultural advice for the world's best agriculture. And they write, among other things.:Ukrainian trainees and feed masters, as well as accompanying family members, may also apply for stay under the special law, even if they already have a residence permit on a business scheme. You also write: For agriculture without collective agreement, the determination of wages and conditions of employment can therefore be agreed individually and freely between the employer and the employee. You also say here in the press release that you have to accept orderly conditions. But this is what is going on here, that is to say, advice where they say: you can get away from this scheme for operators and feed masters and get rid of it cheaper compared to the salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141233	I am well aware that with regard to feed masters and the discussion that has been going on for many years, it has been an arrangement that has been attractive to employers. And I also know that my predecessor has been in the discussion and also, I think, delivered some answers to it. But right now, the problem is that there are too few Ukrainians who enter jobs than there are too many who get into jobs on the wrong terms. Well, the most important thing now is to make sure that the very many people who are in this country actually come out and get a job. And with the size of agriculture today, there will not be 15 000 people working there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141308	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141310	Now I have some doubts as to whether the Minister has understood what the challenge is. The challenge is that there are now some of the people who are in Denmark on business schemes and who are accepted and approved both by the business community and by the trade unions and by a majority here in the Folketing, who among other things. is advised through this press release from a consultancy firm called SAGRO, which is nuanced, also in some other places in the press release, it has to be said, yet clearly signals to agriculture that they can leave them under the regulated regime and onto the unregulated market, where there are no agreements and thus no bottoms under wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141346	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141346-2	I have my doubts as to whether this is my or the Ministry of Employment. However, I would just like to say that the fact that some bandits are taking advantage of a change in our society is something that has always been, and we must, of course, try to contain that as well as we can. At the same time, however, I must also say that when I look at the overall challenge that we have, associated with someone who has fled from war to this country, it is first and foremost to ensure that people enter the labour market and get a job now. And then I fully agree that those jobs must of course be on fixed terms, there is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141421	Sir. Karsten Hønge for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141422	Well, that's exactly what's at the heart of it. Because it is true that the Ukrainian refugees who come to Denmark must get out to work as soon as possible, but they must be decent jobs. It should not be in wage dumping jobs that push wages and, moreover, ordinary employment relationships downwards. One of the protections we've built up is these business arrangements for operators and feed masters. There we now see a risk in relation to this consultancy firm saying to agriculture: you can just let them skip and then get over on terms where you can dump wages. I just have to say to the Minister: hope is not a strategy. There is a need for the Minister to strike down this kind of disorder.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141456	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141456-2	I've never claimed hope is a strategy. Actually, I think my boss has just said the opposite. It is clear that, of course, there must be proper conditions and, of course, the people who are here from other European countries and who work in agriculture must have proper conditions. It must also be said that the majority of the jobs that Ukrainians will be able to take are not in agriculture. After all, it is in services, in urban occupations around the country. We are doing a huge amount of work to succeed in doing so. We must be able to do this, while also ensuring that those in agriculture are there on proper conditions. I fully agree with the questioner on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141527	That's the end of the question. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and to Mr. Karsten Hønge. Then we have to move on to the next question. It's for the Minister of Education and Research, and it's by Mr. Knox. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141541	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141545	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that a student who had applied for disability allowances in September and who even in November found out that he had made a mistake in his application, which he was confirmed by a call to the board to confirm that the information was missing, is told that when he receives a reply from them, they will request additional documentation but that he cannot send in the missing information in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141612	Thank you for the question to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. And I think that the question reflects the fact that this is a specific case with which the questioner has been announced, and as a minister I cannot go into individual cases, but I can generally state that the Danish Education and Research Authority is responsible for the administration of the su-handicap supplement and therefore also for the handling of the specific applications which are at issue here. The Management Board has indicated that in some cases it can decide on an application for su-handicap supplement with the documentation received with the application. In many cases, however, the board has to obtain further medical evidence in order to decide a case. The agency has also informed me, before I had to give the answer here, that it does not recognise the approach described in the question as covering how to work there. According to the Management Board, an applicant may always submit additional relevant documentation, even in cases where he has not already provided the necessary documentation at the time of the application. The Management Board states that it is precisely advising that each applicant can contribute to informing his or her case on an ongoing basis by submitting relevant documentation. In general terms, I would urge that, if you, as an applicant, believe that there have been errors in your case, you should contact the board so that they can look into it and also at any need for further documentation that you might be able to provide. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141743	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141745	It is, of course, gratifying to hear that it seems to be a misunderstanding that has happened in this matter. And it is, of course, true that this is a specific matter I am asking about, and I do so on the basis of the fact that there is an educational counsellor who writes to me because she has been sitting with this young man who applied back in September and in November found out that he had made a mistake, and when he saw with educational counsellors calling the board, they inform, at least as I am told, that he cannot send in information in advance. And what we are talking about here, as the educational counsellor also writes to me, is that the young man like everyone else who is looking for disability allowances is deeply dependent on it, and he gets a grant from his parents in order to manage the study, and with the rising consumer prices that we all experience, it is not easier for him or the other students who are familiar with it in the same situation. Many of the students seeking disability allowances also have a high cost of e.g. medicines. Then she writes that it is not, of course, for me to solve it here, but you may want to do so, but that sometimes it must also be good for politicians to know that there are living people who are facing real challenges and who will soon have to make the choice, whether they can afford to continue in a study that will make them self-sufficient. I am so glad that I hear the Minister say in this Chamber, because that is what we get on tape, that it is actually a right that you can send in your information if you see that there are some who are missing, and I will certainly spread that to those educational counsellors who can then sit around and have doubts, so that they can then tell the board that it has been said by the Minister that the board says, and that this must be so. Another element of this is the waiting time, because one thing, of course, is that it takes even longer if you do not get the information, but in general we stood here just over a year ago, I think, and talked about waiting times, and then the minister told us that the waiting time, as I remember, was 51⁄2 months, and the minister said that the agency was now in the process of obtaining additional information. What I can see from the most recent reply from the Minister is that the wait here in February was 5.7 months...
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141948	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511141951	I think it is good to get it on tape here and also to get clarification for those who have to keep up with how these cases are supposed to run. And as I have explained in the answer before, it is therefore the intention and apparently also, as I am informed, a definite way of providing guidance that is at least typical of the fact that it is possible to submit further evidence on an ongoing basis in the course of its proceedings. And I can only take the view that we have an interest in this being done as smoothly as possible and that, although it often also requires medical documentation, it is done in a way that can be quickly answered and you can move on and you do not end up in the situation that Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl describes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142031	Thank you. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142032	It is precisely in this context that the time to wait for a decision is really crucial. And when the Minister replied a year ago that it was now actively reducing waiting times and I can see from a reply from the Minister here in February that the waiting time has actually increased over the last year, I will of course be curious to hear what has come out of those measures and what the Minister is going to do to ensure that we are actually going the right way and that it is not just going to be any longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142102	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142103	That's right, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl argues that there have been challenges with the processing times, and we should always go for them with realistic objectives, which are as short as possible, and that is better on other points than it is here. I am informed that there has been an increase in the number of applications and that, in the case of about two thirds of applications, the Board must obtain further medical evidence in order to settle cases. And it does of course mean that there is a process of being able to do so, but it only makes it more relevant where we started, so that along the way you can also disclose your case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142141	The last question, Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142141-2	Indeed, and in this context, I would like to ask whether the Minister agrees that the purpose of the improvements and procedures that must be carried out must be that, when the student starts his studies, the student has an overview and knowledge of his finances and the framework under which he has to cope with his studies, so that he has a decision before starting his studies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142209-2	Yes, it is certainly desirable to have the decision and for those entitled to the supplement as soon as possible that they get it and can understand their financial situation while they are students. You can search this month before you start if you're busy. Then I would just like to say, in addition to the second we were around before, that I have also been informed that the Board has initiated various administrative measures and prioritised additional resources in terms of reducing the processing time. But let's finally keep up with what's going on. We will have a common interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142244	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Then we move on, and now it is the tax minister who is asked questions by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142255	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142258	Thank you so much. Yes, it's about the bill on VAT on artistic activities. My question is: does the Minister continue to believe that we should abandon the stand-still system we have on VAT on artistic activities, now that external legal experts selected by the Tax Committee have established that the scheme is not contrary to EU rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142320	Thank you for the question. Well, first of all, I think it's important to focus on what the task is here and what it's really about L 106. The task is precisely to adapt rules and practices so that the advantages conferred by the Danish standstill scheme on artists in the form of exemption from VAT can be maintained in contrast to the many other countries which do not have similar arrangements. It is therefore not a question, as the question says, of abandoning the standstill system, but rather of maintaining the standstill system. In other words, I am certainly not prepared to give up the stand-still system on artistic services in the VAT law, nor is that what L 106 is proposing. With L 106, artistic services are not subject to VAT; what becomes subject to VAT is when management and member organisations give companies etc. the right to make commercial use of artists' copyrights. Let me make it clear that I think that the VAT exemption for artistic services is an excellent system, and with the new wording proposed in L 106 it will become clear by law to everyone what the VAT exemption actually covers. In addition, the wording will be brought into line with the relevant directive provision, precisely so that we can maintain the standstill system for the future. I would like to point out that Gorrissen Federspiel agrees that the proposal to clarify the VAT exemption means that the Danish wording of the exemption provision is better in line with the standstill provision of the VAT Directive. I should like to refer to my answer to Questions 87 to L 106, where I was asked to comment on the statement by Gorrissen Federspiel. In my reply, the Ministry of Taxation does not agree with the conclusion that it is not necessary to amend the VAT exemption. It remains the view of the Ministry of Taxation that management organisations cannot benefit from the exemption from VAT. Both the Inter-ministerial Working Group and the Ministry of Justice agree with this assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142521	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142523	Now we have had a presentation of Gorrissen Federspiel in the Tax Committee today, where fortunately we were a few parties who participated in the presentation and became wiser on this. What is quite clear is that there is parallelism in the way it should be understood. And that means that when there is a VAT exemption for the artist for the intermediary, the VAT exemption goes from intermediary to consumer. And that's the parallelism that the Treasury and the Treasury Minister won't acknowledge and that the Treasury Minister will roll back with this bill. And it can never be rolled back again. As soon as VAT is imposed on one part, it cannot be rolled back, because we have an exception, a so-called standstill condition. That is why I am surprised that it is decided to put an end to this standstill condition for one of the two terms when it comes to parallelism.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142618-2	We do not want the standstill system to be abandoned or stopped. I think it is an excellent arrangement. And with the new wording in L 106, we will have a framework that is better in line with the directive. I would like to remind you that management organisations are not currently covered by the standstill system either. They have been exempt from VAT for another reason. As my answer to questions 87 to L 106 shows, management organisations have been exempted from VAT because the supply of copyright licences has not been considered to be an economic activity. It is true that services for artists and management organisations have so far been treated equally, but for various reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142701	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142702	It is quite clear that the Ministry of Taxation has misunderstood that this is an intermediary, not acting of its own power, of its own economy, but of others, and that is why the concept of parallelity, which is fundamental to this European legal concept, applies here. And that is why I am surprised that the government insists on VATing one part of the VAT exemption for standstills in EU law, and I continue to get the same answer. Why do we want to put VAT on something that we have today exempted?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142737	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142738	In any case, I have to say that it is not quite clear to the inter-ministerial working group, to the lawyers of the Ministry of Taxation or to the lawyers of the Ministry of Justice that the Ministry of Taxation should have made an erroneous interpretation in this matter. Then there may be a legal disagreement, I recognise that, but as a minister I am basing it on the advice and guidance I get from the lawyers I have at my disposal and from the lawyers sitting in the Ministry of Justice and on the work done in the inter-ministerial working group, and there is therefore a different result and also a disagreement in the statement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142814	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142815	But since you are not fully aware of what this means, you are obviously not, if you do not agree with the country's leading lawyers in the field, could you at least wait and see if you got a letter of formal notice from the European Commission on that? We haven't been asked to correct it. What applies today is that it is not subject to VAT. We have not received a letter of formal notice. So why actively go into VATing something that is not VAT today when we cannot roll it back afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142845-2	It is because this government, in complete agreement with previous governments, pursues the principle that when there are EU judgments that make it necessary to adjust the practice that has been practiced, we do so because we have to act in accordance with EU law. And that is why we are following the judgments that have been made, and it has been an opportunity to create greater clarity about the Danish standstill regime precisely in order to preserve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142915	Thank you. The question is closed. We will continue with the tax minister, who is asked a question by Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142926	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142935	We will continue in the same course: Will the Minister state his assessment of whether it is given that the Treasury's assessments are clearly contested by one of Denmark's foremost experts in EU law, that the abandonment of a Danish standstill scheme involving VAT on artistic services is an expression of political priority and is not a direct consequence of EU rules or judgments under EU auspices?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511142949	Thank you for that question too. As I just mentioned in my reply to No. S 847, that is, just now, it remains the view of the Ministry of Taxation, and this view is supported by the Inter-ministerial Working Group and the Ministry of Justice that management organisations cannot apply the VAT exemption to artistic services. I would like to point out that there are employees in the Ministry of Taxation who are quite well-involved in EU law, but who are, in fact, also and very important in this matter are experts in VAT law. As I have said, the conclusions of the Ministry of Taxation are shared by other ministries, including the Ministry of Justice, which is also known for having skilled people who know EU law. My answer to the question is therefore that the conclusion that management organisations are liable to VAT on their supply of the artist's copyright is based solely on professional judgement. That it has been decided politically to use the additional proceeds to partially finance the new multi-year agreement for the criminal services economy for 2022 to 2025, concluded by the government, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservative People's Party, has nothing to do with the professional judgement, although of course I am pleased with the original agreement that has been reached. Finally, I would like to point out once again that this is not an amendment to the VAT exemption for artists, and that is why the standstill clause is not repealed, as the question asked might suggest. Today, management organisations are not exempt from VAT under the VAT exemption for artists, but because the supply of copyright licences by management organisations has been considered not to be covered by the VAT rules. This is what the European Court of Justice has temporarily overruled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143125	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143126	Can the Minister confirm that the judgment to which the Minister keeps referring is a judgment by Romania which does not have an exemption for VAT on artistic activities? In Romania, artistic activity becomes VAT as opposed to in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143146	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143146-2	I can confirm that this concerns a judgment in Romania. I can also confirm that there has been an inter-ministerial working group which has also looked at how the consequences should be in relation to a Danish minimum implementation. I can also confirm that, on the basis of the legal assessment obtained from the Danish Parliament, lawyers from the Inter-ministerial Working Group in the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Justice have once again assessed whether the interpretation was correct. And they have come to the conclusion that it was; it is their legal professional judgement, and that is on which I am based.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143219	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143220	It is only Denmark that chooses to interpret it as that there is no parallelism with the artist and the intermediary and the consumer respectively. Only Denmark does. In Germany, there was a judgment in 2018 on the dissemination of operabillets. It stated that a requirement for a personal supply as a condition for exemption from VAT is not such a characteristic which violates the parallelism of VAT in the distribution clause and which should prevent the exemption from VAT also in the VAT system between the intermediary and the licensee. It is in direct conflict with what the Minister is saying here. Will the Minister still claim that the Minister is living up to EU regulation with this and that it is not a particular effort in relation to a political priority in relation to VAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143307	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143308	I am happy to answer specific questions in writing. I have to deal with the legal assessment that comes from the Ministry, from the Ministry of Justice and from an inter-ministerial working group, which has also looked at what it looks like in other EU countries. After all, it has been visited again on the basis of the note or assessment made by the Danish Parliament and has arrived at the same result. It is their legal assessment; it is the one on which I am based.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143335-2	Do not impress at all on the Minister when lawyers who have
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143358	It can be said that now the Folketing has made an external statement and a legal assessment. That is quite fair and fair; it is, of course, parliamentary control. This has led, as a response has also been given to the draft law here, to the fact that the arguments have been looked at, and it has been concluded that this does not alter the legal assessment. This is explained, I think, in the answer to Question 87, and that is what I can rely on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143427	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. And we will continue with questions to the tax minister, and this time it is Mr. Kim Valentin of the Left who has to ask questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143436	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143441	Thank you for that to the President. I'll continue in moles where my co-worker continued in dur. Unfortunately, this is a serious matter:
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143518	Yes, every bird must sing with its beak, but thank you for the question. As I just mentioned in my reply earlier to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, I do not have the slightest interest or wish to remove the standstill regime for artistic activities. That should be clear to everyone, because I have at least had the opportunity to stress it on three issues. Management organisations have been exempted for other reasons, and a European judgment has changed this. In other words, there are no substantive changes in relation to the stand-still scheme for artists, although the question suggests it. Then perhaps I do not quite understand why the questioner sees reason to mix the Danes' support for the European Union into this discussion. There is, of course, a difference of opinion on matters, that is also true in legal matters, there is nothing unusual about that, and there is nothing unusual about the fact that a government is, of course, based on the legal assessment and interpretation that comes from in this case, the Treasury, the Ministry of Justice and an inter-ministerial working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143627	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143629	Thank you. First of all, it is about the artists and that they will probably have a less favourable basis on which to run their business. Let's not forget that in this. That is why, when you put a new VAT on some people, you have to be quite sure that it is quite fair that you do it this way. The government is pushing the EU in front of it and saying: it is the EU's fault that this is coming; it is not us who made this up; see this judgment. When the government does this and then we find out as an opposition that it is not right, because there are many opinions about this, it is no wonder that you ask some extra times. And just in relation to this, it might be worthwhile to look into things once again. The European Union is a great organisation, so it is quite reasonable that we sometimes misjudge, and there too, as a government, we should be big enough to say to ourselves: yes, what we considered here was perhaps wrong. And then you can change the decision. This is a clear example of either not knowing it, or because you had to get some money elsewhere, you have come up with a VAT on art, where you just say that it is the European Union's fault. You could think that if you were a little mean, but I never am, I'd just say that. Can the Minister understand that context?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143803	Now, sir. Kim Valentin didn't say he's not malicious and doesn't have that kind of thoughts. Yet he asks the question twice. Then you might as well as answer the thought that perhaps there was still a tender desire to ask whether there is some underlying agenda, i.e. if the government hasn't come up with this in order to find some money. I'm kind of thinking that sir... Kim Valentin knows that we have no underlying agenda. The fact that the official work is following in what kind of judgments are coming and whether we are complying with the EU legislation on minimum implementation has not changed practice for this period of government. That is why we are here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143841	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143843	I also thought very well that I could get that answer. The legal statement here says: The dissemination of copyright licences is therefore, according to our assessment, still free of VAT under EU law, even in the relationship between the management organisations (the intermediaries) and the customers. Will the Minister acknowledge that fact, and if so, can it be corrected?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143915	Well, I have given an answer in relation to the assessment on the basis of the legal assessment made by the Danish Parliament. There you can see that there are some similarities in the legal assessment, and then there is a disagreement about what is at the heart of the matter. The main difference is, in the view of the Ministry of Taxation, whether the exemption from VAT on artistic services contains a so-called speciality, as mentioned in the judgment in Heffling. There is then a legal disagreement, and I am then building my work on the assessment that comes from the Treasury, from the Ministry of Justice and from the Inter-ministerial Working Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511143959	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511144000	I'd rather not have another appointment with the minister. We can ask the European Union. Let's ask the European Union, 'cause they're here to decide whether it's under these rules or not. It's not hard. We can just send a question down to them. I'd like to be a part of that. I would like to ask the European Union, together with the Minister, about this. And if we then get an answer where we are told that it is not the European Union that is demanding it, can we go to negotiations on what it really looks like?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511144033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511144034	I have no basis for questioning the legal assessment that has been made and therefore no basis for going ahead and questioning it. Then I understand that on the other hand you have an interest in trying to see if you can drag this over. We have only one interest in maintaining the Danish standstill system. Now there has been a thorough legal assessment of it. If you read the assessment that has come from the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Justice from an interministerial working group, it is not particularly unclear. It is perfectly normal practice when there is a judgment that you then relate to whether you implement what is correct or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511144112	The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Taxation and thank you to Mr. Kim Valentin. That concludes Question Time. Then we will have to put the next rapporteurs first, because we are going to have a debate on the state of affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511144121	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511144255	Thank you for the floor. After all, we know that what is happening in the big world will have meaning in Denmark and that what is happening in Denmark will have meaning out there in the big world. However, it may have become even clearer over the last two to three years that this is precisely the case. It can well be said that the period since the last parliamentary elections shows so much that Denmark is part of the world and that the world is part of Denmark. The Coronapandemic has been and is still a very, very clear example of the fact that few major problems and challenges stop at the country border. It's not just pandemics. This also applies to pollution, climate change, financial crises, refugee flows, rising food and energy prices and much else, as is also demonstrated by the war in Ukraine right now and here. The world's crises and challenges are also our crises and challenges. At the same time, both the pandemic and the crisis in Ukraine show that Denmark can actually make a positive difference out there in the big world. We cannot solve all the world's problems alone, but we can make our contribution, as we have done with, for example. corona relief packages, vaccine donations and most recently humanitarian relief and other forms of assistance to Ukraine. So the world affects us, but we can also influence the world, which we have a long and strong tradition of doing, among other things. as one of the few countries that meets the UN objective of giving at least 0.7%. of development aid. The fact that we contribute as much as we do is due both to the fact that we have some values and to the fact that we have some interests. First of all, we have values that we want to help where people are having difficulty, and some values of thinking about others other than ourselves, and not least those who need to be thought about most. That is what solidarity is all about. At the same time, we have a clear interest in contributing to the solution of global problems and challenges, which are, of course, not just the problems of developing countries, but all of us. The law on international development cooperation states so well that Danish development cooperation should contribute to the promotion of Denmark's interests in a more peaceful, stable and equal world. That is why development policy is important, and that is why the strategy for our development policy is important. It is good that a year ago we had a strategy developed by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament. It is also good that we agreed on the same occasion that once a year we should have a discussion with each other on how the strategy is to be translated into action based on an annual statement by the Minister for Development on development cooperation. That is why I would like to thank the Minister for his statement and also the parties who helped to make the agreement just under a year ago, not least to Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl, who, at least as I remember, came up with the idea for this annual debate. I think it is a good idea to make such a statement. This provides a good opportunity to take stock, and it provides a good opportunity to discuss development policy with each other, but also with citizens, civil society organisations and others, as has happened towards the debate in this Chamber today. I also think it is a good statement that has been made. It provides a good overview of how the strategy has been worked since it was adopted, ranging from a civil society fund in Myanmar to cooperation with UN food organisations on interventions in eastern Africa and on the restoration of forests in Indonesia, which both bind CO2 The statement is built up in roughly the same way as the strategy with a section on what is the foundation for it all, namely democracy and human rights; a section on the strengthened focus on those countries and areas where it is the most difficult and where the needs are the greatest, namely the fragile countries and neighbourhoods of crises and conflicts; a section on climate and the green, where the government has some very, very ambitious objectives, and that is not least in relation to climate adjustment; and a section on the partnerships with developing countries, NGOs, UN organisations, businesses and others, which are, of course, a prerequisite if our development cooperation is to succeed, and that is what needs are huge. Right now Ukraine is filling a lot in our minds for many very good reasons, but we must not forget all the people in the Sahel, in the Horn of Africa, in Afghanistan, Myanmar and in many other countries and regions, who are also living under very difficult conditions right now. It is whether it is poverty and lack of basic intangible goods, or repression and lack of freedom to participate in society in general, or whether it is discrimination based on gender, sexuality, belief, disability, origin, political affiliation, trade union work or other, or whether it is conflicts and wars and terrorist organisations that are ravaged by one's country, or climate change, which is hitting harder and harder in many of the world's poorest countries, or, for that matter, the rising food prices that are currently creating a very, very serious situation in many places. We cannot solve everything ourselves, but we can contribute with money and economy and, of course, also with the attitudes and values that we have in our country. I think that the strategy provides a very good framework for this with democracy and human rights as an absolutely crucial foundation, with equality and the rights of girls and women, as a very, very important cross-cutting priority, with a strengthened focus on those areas where it is hardest, that is. fragile countries and neighbourhoods for crises and conflicts, where we would like to help more people better, and not least with a significant upgrading of the green in general and of climate aid in particular. The strategy set a clear direction. I think that the statement shows that the strategy is being followed and that we are moving in the direction of the strategy, but also with the opportunity to address it when reality demands it, for example. in relation to how and how much we are present in specific countries when the framework and conditions in the country change. We are not in the end, but we have put in place a good strategy which is not just words, but which actually has meaning and significance for the way in which we prioritise our development aid. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511144939	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511144943	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and also thank him for the cooperation we have in this area, which, fortunately, is quite wide-ranging cooperation, in which we have both good discussions and some disagreements, but also find each other in how we get the answer to these matters. I am asking some questions now, and it is not on the assumption that the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group is completely dissipating the work of the Social Democratic Government, but I would like to hear an assessment from the rapporteur. Because there has been a lot of discussion about the interest-based approach against the value-based approach; there was also a discussion when we made the new strategy, which was about it being a rights-based approach, and it has been somewhat set up in relation to some of the focus of this statement, which is very much about the migration-based approach. So it is not to hear whether the rapporteur thinks it is a wrong balance that the government has found, because I would not ask the rapporteur to comment on that, but I would like to hear how the rapporteur thinks we can get closer in the next year to a more rights-based approach and a more value-based approach instead of focusing on interests and migration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145057	I think that one of the most important things to say in that discussion is, as I also tried to say in my speech, that things are also connected; that is, I do not think it should be said that either it is interest-based or it is value-based. Many of the major problems that are in the world are also our problems, so when we go to it and do development work in the big world, it will typically be something that is entirely in line with our values, but which we also have a great interest in contributing to, because the problems do not stop at the country border. When we then look forward in the next year and look at how we might get the value-based and also if I hear the questioner right about democracy and human rights, I think that is one of the things we should be discussing. And I can see in the statement that it says that a democracy facility is being worked on in order to strengthen the democratic dialogue, both online and at all, and I am excited about it. I don't know a whole lot about it, but I think it's an exciting thing, and I think it's one of the things we need to discuss how to get even more meat and blood on it with democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145204	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145205	I will look forward to discussing this and finding solutions to it. After all, something we also discussed in the context of the strategy was how we could look into this with civil society's room for manoeuvre, which is being reduced in many parts of the world, where human rights activists, especially women human rights activists, are also under extreme pressure. Does the rapporteur agree that we need to upgrade our efforts a little and be a little more proactive in relation to precisely female activists and human rights activists, who are thus under extreme pressure around the world in many of the countries with which we work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145240	At any rate, I fully agree with the description of the challenges and problems that the questioner is giving here, and I am very, very willing to discuss how we can strengthen it. In other words, democracy and human rights are very much part of the strategy... that is the whole foundation. And I also note that some people have asked whether there could have been no targets there, etc. I can see that Global Focus has created a whole catalogue of different objectives that can give concrete shape to the work, and I think that would be exciting to discuss this in the context of the very important part of the strategy that it represents.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145313	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145316	Thank you for that and thank you for your statement and cooperation. I would like to hear the Socialist rapporteur on what he thinks should happen in the future, because the reason why we have the statement is that we should also try to look a little forward and see what we should do in the future. There I would like to hear how the rapporteur views the concept of new and additional climate aid. Because we have had some discussions about this and we have had some disagreements about it. Is it supposed to be extra money for climate aid? As Happy Svend Auken said at one point: we need 1%. for development aid and 0.5% for development aid. for climate and environmental assistance. Or should it still be as the current minister interprets it, namely that everything should just be within the 0.7 percentage limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145404	It is important that we turn up climate aid. It is also in the strategy, and we are also in full swing with it. Well, we have a goal that by 2023 should 30 per cent. of the development aid, which is below what is called § 6.3, is used on the green, and 25 per cent, as far as I remember, will be spent on climate aid, and of that there will then be 60% spent on climate adaptation. So these are some very ambitious objectives, and we are already well at it. We are going to give much more in climate aid forward-looking than we have done in the past, and I am pleased about that. Then the questioner asks whether it should be in excess of the 0.7%, and there is the government's policy, that even if you want to do so much, there is also an economic framework in this area, and that is 0.7 per cent. And then it's nice that some finance agreements have been made, where they have nevertheless succeeded with very good help from among others. Mr. Christian Juhl to find a little more money for climate assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145510	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145512	Yeah, but I kind of asked about the visions of social democracy. That is to say, if that is the vision, then it must be as it is now, and then we should not move from there. Isn't it a little strange that in the 1990s and around the year 2000, politicians in the Social Democratic Party, who had a vision that stretched much, much longer, then about twice what we are delivering today for climate and development aid? At that time it was defined that development aid should be 1% and that climate aid should be 0.5 percent above, so we provide 1.5 percent. After all, we are a richer and stronger society today than we were around the year 2000.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145549-2	I do not think it is so strange that politics can change a little over so many years. Nor do I agree that what I am saying is that everything should just stay the way it is. Well, we have some pretty big ambitions in terms of green and climate aid. And it doesn't matter how we spend the money within the framework we have, and there we make some priorities which, of course, are based on the strategy we have worked together, where we turn up the green. I welcome this, as I also welcome the fact that until now, in the financial laws that have been made under this government, it has also succeeded, with the help of the support parties, in finding some money in addition to the 0.7%.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145630	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145634	Thank you for your speech and thank you for having made this statement. We're all happy about that. And I cannot disagree with the analysis made by the rapporteur, such of the broad lines of covid-19 and Ukraine. What at least we Conservatives tried to mention when we helped to make the strategy was that development aid should be seen in a context of foreign policy and security policy. But I do not see everything the rapporteur says in the statement at all. How does the rapporteur view Danish development aid in the very complex world we are in? And why is it not reflected, just as it is in the statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145716	Oh, that was a difficult question, I think. I do not read the statement as being contrary to what I was saying about the fact that the world is connected and that, for example, it is connected. not just the developing countries, which have all the problems, and those of us who have all the solutions. There are a large number of problems in relation to climate and much more that we share, and that we therefore, both because we have some values, but also because we have some interests, must take this development work and cooperation very, very seriously. So that is the position of the Social Democrats, and I do not think that is contrary to what is stated in the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145757	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145759	If I get a little more specific then we have also talked a lot about country elections, and a country in Asia, in which we still have a small hand, is Myanmar. How do we ensure that the phasing-out that is now taking place in our aid to Myanmar does not make us completely invisible? What I hear is that we are going to phase out and maybe only want one person seated in the embassy in Myanmar. Does the rapporteur not consider it important that we maintain a Danish footprint in Asia?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145831-2	There are, however, a number of countries which have suffered in common with Myanmar, compared with some shifts and some military coups and other things that make a regime that is very difficult to work with suddenly. And in that situation, I think it makes a great deal of sense to redeploy the aid and make it much more directed towards civil society. However, I fully agree with the rapporteur that we should not abandon the peoples of those countries, even though there have now been some governments that we do not want so much support. We need to find out how we can support the people without also supporting the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145906	Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511145908	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It is good to be in the course of this debate, which we have all looked forward to. The rapporteur is just a little short on the issue of girls and women, who have been a top priority in the Danish development aid and something we really, I think, have a good expertise in, and where perhaps somewhere in the wider world there is also an expectation that it is Denmark that really sits at the table here and really bites on the edge of the table, but above all also gets some results for the benefit of girls and women in the world's poorest countries. This is something I am missing from this statement because it is very much present in our strategy, but it is as if the statement does not actually reflect that priority. And is the rapporteur's assessment that it is because nothing has happened in this area, or because you may just have run out of space or just have choices to set different priorities? Well, I can easily read in the statement that there is a lot about climate change initiatives. I just think that the link is forgotten, because it actually also affects women's rights and girls' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150018	It is certainly a very, very important priority, which I also mentioned at the end of my speech. Or maybe I should have said something more about it in my speech. I could have done that, but I mentioned it as a very, very crucial priority for allerallers last. And I think it also says something about this: Equal opportunities and the rights of women and girls are a long-standing Danish priority, which is also central to the joint about the world • as a cross-cutting priority in humanitarian interventions as well as in the long-term development commitment. However, I fully acknowledge that, as a result of the statement, it is possible to discuss whether there is something that should fill a little more, or something that should fill a little less, or whether the statement should have been longer, or whether there should have been more concrete examples with or less. Now it is also the first year that we have the statement, so I think it is quite fine if we can also have a discussion about whether it has affected shape and such. However, there must be no doubt whatsoever that girls and women's rights are a very, very important priority, including for social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150115	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150116	I'm glad to hear that, and fortunately I'm not surprised either. But it is good to hear it, and it is true that it is so in shape and how many pages were there and how long was the rapporteur's speech and so on.? But it's good to have it cemented. I shall probably ask the Minister the same question. On a completely different subject: we are fortunate enough that there are examples that development aid works, that development aid helps the countries out of poverty, and one example is Tanzania, and thus there is a phasing-out of Tanzania in this regard, also in relation to embassy cooperation. What is the social democratic view of this priority of having well-functioning embassies? Is it wise to shut down completely in Tanzania, or should you focus on some trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150201	In other words, as in so much other policy, there is a priority here that needs to be done. And it is not because and it is not because I think it is the coolest thing in the world to close an embassy in a country where we have been for many years. But it also offers some opportunities to turn up other places, among others. some of the places where it is really, really difficult to do, and where there are crises and conflicts and neighbourhoods for crises and conflicts, etc., which are some of the things we would like to focus even more on here. And that is why we have to give priority sometimes, and in that light I think it makes a great deal of sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150238	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150242	Thank you. In a way, it is a bit awkward to the rapporteur, who has not written the report himself, I assume to point out what is missing, but I will do so anyway. I know we can only ask one question every time, and I have many, so I will also put one to the rapporteur, and this is about education and the link with women and girls' rights. Because I think that, firstly, it is a very short paragraph on women and girls' rights. In fact, there is also a lack of the link between education and training, which is essential for women not to become mothers at a young age and for them not to have more children than they want. And that is why I would just like to ask how the rapporteur might not have written it so much differently, but what the Social Democrat rapporteur will do to work to put education high on the agenda of development policy work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150330	Now the questioner is talking about what is in the statement, but I think there are several good things about the education strategy, not least in the section dealing with neighbourhoods of crises and conflicts. In other words, the question of thinking about education, including where humanitarian aid is needed, in other words, thinking about training also in humanitarian crises. I think that's important. It is also a way of ensuring that it will be doing in some of these countries, not only becoming humanitarian here and now, but also having a long-term perspective. There I think thinking education with is a key to it, so I think that is important to do. And I think that is one of the things we, for example. I did, and it might be a little longer, and now it's the first statement we made when we made these corona help packages. There it was with education and, not least, girls' access to education and how to get the girls back to school once they got out of school due to decommissioning and corona • some of the things we focused on. So I think we'll think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150436	Mrs. Anne Sophie Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150439	Thank you for those comments, including on how to think education into humanitarian crises, which I very much agree with. And I agree that that is exactly what we agreed on, among other things. Because we Radicals also agreed that there should be a focus on training in the corona aid packages. And then there was a question of whether some of the money we frontloaded, so actually came and was added to later. But let us take it another day, and I would just like to say thank you for the answer, and I hope, of course, that the rapporteur in the Socialist Group will also press for education to be very high on the agenda here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150513	Thank you. Education is important, not least to think about it in relation to the humanitarian crisis. We must try to do that, and if we do not get it done quite enough, I am sure that the radical rapporteur, as she has done so many times before, will also remind me of it in various negotiating rooms in the future. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150536	Thank you for that, there are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And then it is Mrs Karen Ellemann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511150548	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Minister for this statement, which is the first of its kind. In fact, it is quite appropriate to thank Mr. Christian Juhl and that Enhedslisten are simply in the strategy. I think that is incredibly positive; that we really have a broad scope here. That was a good invention, I would like to acknowledge, because how else do we secure this annual thorough discussion of what the state of the realm is, so to speak, when it comes to our means of development? And to that I have to say that in relation to the statement here there is room for improvement, and some of what I'm looking for is just a little more of these concrete examples of what our amazing organisations actually deliver from results out there. It is well described how the strategic partnerships have been concluded, but it is really about the actors who are going out in the various fragile states where Danish development aid is going to contribute to recovery. And I say this because I think it is important to include it and, above all, I think it is very, very important that the statement is, so to speak, in sync with the strategy. And that is where I have already said, with my question to the Socialist rapporteur, that I do not think that the report is entirely in sync with the strategy, for example, when we are talking about girls and women's rights. That is briefly mentioned, and the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned it, where it stands and so on. But there is just so much more substance in the strategy that it is important to get into the statement as well. That is why I actually have such a proposal on how to improve the presentation in this way. These are the first steps we are taking here, and it is precisely to make sure that we are and maybe also in the preparation of this that we may have more input from the strategic partners, as an example, to have it worked out, and that then we still have this good, long period to have the broad consultation. And, above all, work quite fundamentally on the fact that this statement also aims to maintain popular engagement, so that the popular commitment, that is, the support for us as a country, contributes 0.7 per cent. Our bn, which in fact runs into many billions every year, remains widely seen in the Danish population; that support. Each of us, regardless of our political location, has a duty to ensure this. For the public, it supports my view, quite clearly, that is, the Danish people, and we really see here in particular, in the context of the war in Ukraine, how the Danes can and will mobilise forces when it comes to helping people in need. So if, after all, I am in opposition, everything else equal, even though we share this idea of being a little sharp on this one anyway, then I think it is a bad X-ray of the situation because I actually think that some results are being produced that we are not fully unfolding here. I understand how such work gets under way, and I understand what the pressure is like, both in Asian Square, that is, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but certainly also what the pressure is like when we talk about employees working with development aid in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And in this respect, I would just like to point out in parentheses that, in our draft budget, we in the Left have said in this way that we believe that there should be more funding for the External Action Service, because there is pressure. There are a lot of talented people who may be running a tooth too fast. I can be concerned about this in relation to actually playing a role, both in the multilateral negotiations, but certainly also in relation to being present with full staffing at the embassies to ensure implementation there. So it is important just to point out that there is therefore a concern in terms of being able to fulfil the great task of having a well-functioning development policy. In fact, it is also important to thank Danish funds for the incredible contribution they make and how the pool of funds that strategic partners then make use of and get out to work out there is crucial for moving these important agendas. This is the first of its kind. It is officially looking at the initiative of the Minister, because that is the Minister's statement. A statement is an orientation if we are now to be a bit formalistic. It is not as such that we have to negotiate. I consider this to be almost a public rapporteur meeting, because we often meet in the chair and have good, important and constructive discussions and a responsive minister and a great many, I think, initiativeful and committed colleagues from different parties. I would like to thank you very much for that. However, as I have said, this is the first version of the report, and I am not going to give grades, but at least just say that there is room for some wiser things to say, and I think the development work deserves that, and I think there are some shortcomings. But thank you for your statement, and thank you for focusing on popular engagement. Let's remember that part of it too. Let those be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151226	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151230	Thank you. One can actually just continue with the many words of praise to each other, because it is actually a pleasant group of rapporteurs to be part of, and we have some good talks. I would like to ask two questions. One is something that the rapporteur himself refers to with regard to the position of the Left that the External Action Service should be strengthened. I would like to know whether the Left also believes that development aid should be strengthened. I am thinking in particular of the fact that, in these times, we have chosen to spend a great deal of money from development aid on domestic refugee management, and that we do not, of course, meet the requirement to provide new and additional funds for climate aid. So I would like to ask whether the Left's will to increase the scope of Asian Square, that is, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also goes on the content, or whether it is only on the Danish side. The second question I would like to ask is this, with interests in relation to values, because this is one of the discussions we have had. And we also had it a few years before under a previous government. Where is the balance from the Left's point of view in relation to this statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151338	Thank you very much for a broad and excellent question. We on the Left believe that being able to give 0.7 per cent. It's a good level. We have no ambition to change that percentage. With regard to the second issue, which concerns the concern regarding the management of refugees in Denmark, it is in full compliance with the OECD/DAC rules that it is taken from that account in the first year. There's nothing new about that. But I admit that this round was hard, and so was it last time. It is always difficult in terms of priorities. When we go in in our financial bill and talk about an increase in the External Action Service, it is because the crew is content. After all, staff at the embassies who can handle it are very much content. That's all I can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151445	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151446	Then it is good that you can ask follow-up. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the last part about staffing in embassies and so on, but I just thought it was important to point out where the Left is in relation to development aid as well. The second question was about interests in relation to values. Where does the Left think the balance is in this statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151507	It is, of course, a repetition of the debates we have had regularly about whether it is rights-based or value-based. For me, this isn't a either or. It's not. I fully acknowledge the way in which we have gone to the task of the strategy, and I also agree with the rapporteur that there is a great deal of emphasis on the value-based approach in this statement, and perhaps that is what my criticism is about, i.e. whether the statement is fully consistent with the strategy. But these are not contradictions. So in order to give a concrete answer, it's not for me a either-or, and we need to be able to handle it, so the balance is fifty-fifty.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151548	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151552	Thank you, too, for my cooperation with the rapporteur of the Left. Crew is content, says the rapporteur. I would like to challenge the rapporteur a little. For example: We in Colombia have a purely trade embassy, although we know that human rights in that country are under extreme pressure, including from parts of the government in Colombia, and since we opened the embassy, I think we have asked when we should have some people who knew about human rights. Both the Norwegian and Swedish embassy, and I believe the German and Dutch embassy, are actively involved in the fight against human rights violations. The Danes sit at home at the embassy and say: We don't have people to do that, and our task is defined so that we have to look at trade. It has started in the time of a bourgeois government when it was opened over there. I do not always think that personnel are content, or rather, content, which also requires the right staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151701	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151702	Thank you for a very good question. To precisely the problem of the fact that there is a purely commercial embassy means that employees have no eyes at all for proper working conditions, decent jobs in a country such as Ireland. Colombia here, I would just like to say that the quality of Danish diplomats does, of course, mean that, as I do in the case of external service staff, they do not have blinds on and only think in trade, but indeed they do have a value-based approach and this understanding of the rights-based approach. All other things being equal, if you are to have specific human rights experts on a trade embassy, it is also, once again, a discussion about whether there is enough money in the service in general, and that is why it is good that the Enhedslisten might agree with us in the Left with regard to the proposal to increase the allocation to the External Action Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151811	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151813	Yes, but in this case we are absent when it comes to talking about human rights in the country and about intervening. We will also be absent when some in the country asked if we could do mine clearance in Colombia after FARC had delivered the weapons. It wasn't an option to discuss in that embassy, they usually have a pool for that kind of thing too. In other words, we have not achieved what we could in this context. When the rapporteur says that 0.7%. What is the reason why, under the bourgeois government, we were up to 0.83, even at times when we had less pressure on the international situation, fewer refugees, fewer wars? Why is it that the Left is satisfied with 0.7 per cent? in a more extreme situation and also a richer situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151904	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151905	Because 0.7 percent. As is the general statement on the ambition of any wealthy country. And with 0.7 percent. Christian Juhl is just one of five countries in the world, which is actually at that level. So I think that 0.7 percent. is the right level, and rather than trying to dust money out of nothing, I am concerned that there is growth and progress in Denmark, so that our BNi gets bigger, and thus the amount of the 0.7 percent. bigger. It would be nice if we were more focused on that part together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151948	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Karen Ellemann. Then the next rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511151957	Thank you. Before I start, I would like to make such a small disclaimer, in other words a reservation, because I know that this statement has been made on the basis of six months, when the strategy on which it is based has not really been in play. We decided on the strategy in June, and we are already making a statement. It was because we decided to get these debates started quickly. So some of the words I am saying are not going to be hard on the good people who sat and drafted it, but actually also some good advice on how to proceed with it, as the Left rapporteur said. I think it is a thin round that I think there are many words that are being built up by very little concrete, and that is at least what I will be asking for next year, namely that we are more concrete. We need to be able to measure ourselves by whether we do it well enough, and we do not do it by prose, we also need to have the specific cases on, and we have plenty of concrete objectives in our strategy to get them started from the end. So I will certainly look forward to seeing that next year we will be more concrete in that. One of the things I have found very interesting, and that is also a little what I have been asking you about, is that when we had the strategy discussion when we were sitting and negotiating, we had the discussion about whether it should be a rights-based approach or a more value-based approach, and it was often said that it is a bit the same, because our values are human rights, and that is why everything is good. As this statement comes, it has also been discussed whether it is a value-based approach that lies in it or whether it is an interest-based approach. Then we are told again that it is the same, whether it is interests or values, because it is quite the same for Denmark always. But I have to arrest that, because when you open up and read the introduction, it says: Denmark's development cooperation must provide answers to the challenges that Denmark faces. Well, it's not value-based for me, it's interest-based, narrowly on Denmark's interests. And that's in the introduction, so you can't help but take it in your reading of the rest of the statement. We can do better than that, I think, also in the context of the strategy. Then I have some cuts in it which I would like to point out and which I think are really important. One is about something that I am very concerned about, and it is the activists out in these countries that we are working with, the human rights activists, the women's activists, who are extremely pressured right now and who we experienced during corona faced some situations so that they became even more pressured. How are we out there helping them? I need more answers to that than what it says, and especially because it has been referred to in the statement, that we have been President of this call to action on girls and women, but if we have followed up on that presidency then something special has happened this year, when we have been sitting with it, has there been extra funding, have we taken any special initiatives in relation to all the other areas in which we are in, or have we done something special in the international forums in which we sit, in order to take on that task as well as having been President of it? I think that's worth finding out. In general, I believe that in the coming year, in other words some of the things we need to look forward to, we need to be better able to support minorities, girls and women's rights, to look at how we support it out there, in other words civil society, which is fighting these battles. I know that our embassies, speaking of the previous discussion, are doing a lot, but how can we do more? Because the room for manoeuvre they have in many of these countries is becoming more and more narrow, and then we have to do something further. Something else I think is going to be a very important discussion on the future, and it is particularly in the light of the war in Ukraine and the great reconstruction work that comes about in terms of financing where should the money come from? We cannot spend development aid suddenly only on Ukraine, because we are facing many other challenges. So how do we view future financing of development aid? I also think that some of us need to throw away some of our dogmas and find out something like that in the strategy, also in relation to private sector cooperation, and I am looking a little down at the Conservatives' rapporteur, who was very much the one who got it into the way we can do more of that, how we get cooperation and also get some private sector initiatives up in these countries. We already have some tools for this. This is one of the things I think will be absolutely crucial in the coming year that we will learn more and find new solutions to. Then there is something that we will also have to deal with, and I do not really understand that it is not here, and that is the food crisis. It should be in big letters over the coming year, because it will be the big challenge in relation to some of the countries that the Minister has just visited. I'm talking about Mali, which we had a hard time with, because of the military situation, and that includes Burkina Faso. I think that we should be more effective in not just saying that it is difficult to be here, so that is why we cannot be in that country, but find out how we are doing something in relation to that region. The Sahel has a special place on the Danish task table, and when the Committee on Foreign Affairs was here in Paris a few weeks ago or a month ago and had the discussion with both politicians and officials in France, there was some good talk about perhaps upgrading the support we provide in the countries around, which may not be the most fragile countries, but which can go to be it really fast, and about how we can actually channel over to some of the countries and support that they will not break into the development that unfortunately is in some of these countries in relation to the Sahel. That is also one of the things I very much hope we will be able to work on in the coming year. Thank you very much for your statement and also thank you, ladies and gentlemen, in this area, I think we have some good and important discussions on this, and I know that we are all passionate about it. We can also have discussions where the waves go high, and that is only good, because it also means that there are opinions in it. I look forward very much to having these statements over the coming years, which hopefully will become more and more concrete on what we are measuring ourselves on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511152709	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511152713	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist and thanks to the SF for the rapporteur's speech here and for the work in general and the cooperation in general. When the rapporteur said that it might be that we as a party should consider throwing some of our dogmas, I just raised my back a little extra and became very, very curious about what exactly is in it. It is not a question of teasing, it is actually quite real, in relation to the fact that the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, recognises some dogmas, but says that we must move forward here. So it is simply an opportunity to give the rapporteur one minute's extra speaking time in order to clarify that message.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511152755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511152756	Thank you. This is a lot about funding, because I am deeply concerned that even if we were to live up to our ambition of 1%. I still look away into a large, large task vessel which is not being filled up by it. So how do we create other funding? How do we get to it in other ways? This is not a new idea for SF, but I think we need to think new about getting the private sector involved and look at how we build a private sector in some of these countries too, where I am among others. are very interested in some of the projects that the Folkekirken's Emergency Aid has made in some places with Danish companies that have helped to look at companies in, for example, Uganda or elsewhere. So that's the kind of thing I think we're about to be much, much better at looking into. This does not mean that we are lowering our ambition that Denmark should use 1%. It is not enough, but it is not enough; much more needs to be done with the tasks we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511152853	Mrs. Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511152854	Thank you for a clear answer. I fully agree with the desire to increase the percentage of development aid. However, when the rapporteur also makes the point that this is about recognising that private funding actually also exists for developing countries, then it is an ambition to interfere in the political or perhaps just say thank you, and how well it is, in fact, an appeal that it is perhaps not really something that we should interfere with so much, but be incredibly grateful that there is private funding too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511152938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511152939	But now we are getting involved in this very much, also because we are giving export credits and supporting through IFU etc. That is why, of course, we are going to have to interfere politically with it. But I also think that this is about not how we interfere, but how we support and how we also create the framework, so that SMEs can also be part of this. It doesn't have to be a very big company in order to be able to do it. How can some of the good craft companies we have in Denmark perhaps also help to work with development? It is also a way to get the entire development work spread out more, i.e. knowledge about it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153010	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153012	Thank you to the rapporteur for an interesting speech. I should now like to address some of the points that the rapporteurs have raised a few times now, and these are values and interests. Does the rapporteur see this as a complete contradiction, or are there some places where you can actually see a coincidence between interests and values, and it is perfectly legitimate to promote some interests as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153041	I actually see the danger, because when you start to say that it may be a coincidence, and then you lose focus. At least that is what I am reading here, and we have seen a very large migration focus, which it is very much in Danish interest to do something about, so that there is no excessive migratory pressure on Europe. So I think it is quite important to keep a very equal path in development aid and say: it is about values that we want to spread, it is about human rights, it is about democracy, it is about poverty reduction. Then the interests, the narrow national interests in Denmark, become secondary. But when you start to say that there's a coincidence, this balance tips over quickly, and we can see here in this statement that it does a couple of times.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153133	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153133-2	I am perhaps trying to move on to the green area, because I also know that the rapporteur is very concerned about this. But when we see here that we both have some interests and also have some capacity to promote both green growth and development and green jobs, it can also be quite value-based when we want to try to help others to achieve sustainable growth, and here there is no contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153202-2	But there is still a contradiction, because what kind of box is the money taken from to do the work that Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll is asking about? Because I see plenty of opportunities in green exports also to developing countries. Should the funds go from development aid, or should it perhaps be over in the export fund, that they took that money? We are good at putting a lot of expenditure on development, although it might as well be estimated to be elsewhere. So no, there does not have to be a contradiction, but there will always be a hierarchy, and there is one box from which the money can be taken, and right now we are taking far too much from development aid to some of these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153240	Thank you. Then it's Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153242	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for your cooperation. It's a pleasure. I would like to say that the rapporteur talks a lot about the food crisis or at least mentioned it very seriously. There I have had long conversations with a guy from my own home region, namely South Jutland. He lives in Sønderborg, and his name is Martin and always talks about a product called chia, because it has both proteins and it can give oil, and it can do a lot of things. It can even, at best, feed the whole of Africa with quite little money. We have to give some answers, I'm looking for answers, and this is one. What do the rapporteur think we should do about the food crisis we are in, and how should we do it? We cannot simply export the very failed agricultural policy that we have been pursuing for 100 years in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153338	I also know very well about the person Mr. Christian Juhl refers to. I think we need to be very careful when we work on this area that we are not going to get such a little better-informed and sometimes tending to imperialist attitude on how to do things. Now we're gonna go down and spread Chia to all of Africa, and then they're gonna have to eat it. I believe that we must be careful and always make our efforts in cooperation with local civil society as well. When I say civil society, it is not always the NGOs in Denmark. It's actually the ones out there that I'm really into. So I really think that this is also about, first of all, of course, a food crisis, and there is something humanitarian through multilateral cooperation and UN organisations, etc. There we are going to work with local farmers, the local people who want to create businesses and look at food production.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153428	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153429	I fully agree with that. We had a discussion with Christian Friis Bach when he was a minister, and he said that we had to build huge pig factories, because then we could quickly saturate all the mouths in Africa. But to be honest and honest with Martin in South Jutland's idea of chia, he says that he would like to have the opportunity to make some pilot projects to see if it is a product one would like to work with and test and experiment with in African agriculture. Because it is a good product in many areas. That is why I think he will say that it should be if people wanted to and if they thought there was an opportunity in it and if they could own the products themselves and for the production of oil, etc. Then we might have to take it seriously that's what he means, just like everyone else. But... Third Vice-President, thank you! Time's up. ) That's it? But what else needs to be done in concrete terms? Because at least we need to have some proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153516	Thank you! That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153525	Yeah, but it wasn't really to talk the good Martins I don't remember his last name, project ideas down, but it's gonna have to come from these countries too. We cannot say from the outside how things are to be done. We need to work with the local forces that are. That is actually what I think has been a great strength in Danish development aid for many years: it is that we are out there working with them, it is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153549	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511153606	I have once heard that when you have to give feedback, you have to do it a little bit in a sandwich model when you have to deliver a perhaps a little less positive message, which will probably also come here. But I certainly think there is reason to praise the statement, much of it, and my messages will in fact be both about the statement but also about the government's development policy in general. But let me start with the positive: a rights-based approach to development work that takes up a great deal, both in the statement, but also, I see, in the government's implementation of the agreement at all. A great willingness to listen to civil society, and, in concrete terms, there is, among other things, a willingness to listen to civil society. The report listened to the proposals that have come from, among other things. Globally Focus on how to unfold some of the objectives we have set ourselves in some overall objectives and some sub-objectives. And as several people have also spoken about, there is the part that is about women's and girls' rights, which also stands, if not strongly described, so at least described in the statement, and which is a strong focus in Danish development policy. And it remains essential that this should be the case. I would also like to commend the Minister for being very open about the need for Denmark also to take a position in difficult contexts, fragile situations and constantly to decide how we can make a difference where it is hardest. I think the Minister has been very vocal about this in the past year... how we can make a difference in countries such as the United States. Mali, Burkina Faso and also Afghanistan, where we have a huge responsibility ourselves. So thank you for that. Although we may not always agree on how to do it, I still think that we will find each other far along the way. Then I also think that climate change and climate change adaptation are worth mentioning here, as others have done. I also welcome the fact that the government has such a strong focus on the world's poorest people living with the consequences of the climate bill and, of course, we need to ensure that our development aid addresses that too. But now comes the first time, which is, of course, the climate aid and the desire that we add it. It is clearly a shortcoming in Danish development policy that we have not set ourselves a target for how to get there. We in the Radical Left have a desire to do so. It is not tomorrow that we can get there, and it is the previous government that has started not to deliver, but could we agree with the government on that, I very much hope, and also very much with the other parties, which are part of this agreement, to have a goal set for how we get there, then that would be a very big and significant improvement. Another thing that I have already mentioned that I miss in the statement is the focus on education, also in relation to women's and girls' rights, the coupling that is so extremely important. And I know that the Minister has a look at it, but I miss the fact that it is clear how to link the two things together. And another thing I must say very much is that the work for the coming year does not mention the work for the rights of women and girls at a time when, unfortunately, there is such an enormous decline in many places, especially in relation to the issue of abortion. I understand that it is not possible to mention all of it. I do not have the opportunity to ask all my questions to the Minister, so now it comes a little indirectly here, but I hope, of course, that the government will see that it is absolutely crucial that we have a strong focus on it in the contract circle also in the coming year. We have a very strong network in the Folketing, which Mrs Karen Ellemann is in charge of, and where I think we are really good at putting it on the agenda. But it is clear that it is also a matter for the Minister, and I certainly also have a willingness to focus on it, but when I read the statement, I do not see how it has been highlighted. So for the more serious criticism, as it were, the second is perhaps the desire for something that could be highlighted, but which is basically something that I experience we are common to take an interest in and this is about what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has addressed, namely a more interest-based approach to Danish development assistance, among other things. where irregular migration is referred to as crucial in relation to the EU track. And certainly it is important to address the root causes of irregular migration, but I get worried when I read that the EU should focus primarily on irregular migration. This is not least due to the fact that we have also heard that Denmark wants to inspire other countries in the European Union, that is to say that the Danish Government wants to inspire other countries in the European Union with its idea of a so-called reception centre in Rwanda. I am extremely concerned if that is what lies behind the desire to focus on irregular migration, because it will not address the root causes of the problem, you just push them somewhere else. So I very much hope that is not what it says. Then there are also green conversion projects in Kosovo, which can certainly be good, but here too we have the idea that it might be linked to the Danish Government's choice to conclude an agreement on the purchase of prison places in Kosovo. After all, it is very worrying if our development policy has become part of a debate with other countries on how we can take away part of the responsibility, including in relation to our legal system. I would have liked to say, I would have liked to give the government a little credit for the doubt, but of course have a strong focus on the fact that this is not what we are talking about: that Danish development policy has and must focus on improving the world for those who have the most difficulty. I really hope that this will be a Danish cardinal point and also a social democratic cardinal point. Well, it's certainly been before. Then we come to the very heavy part of the criticism, which, of course, is about the savings that the government chose to make in order to finance the reception of refugees from Ukraine, and in which we have been very puzzled that, in such an extraordinary situation as the Socialists have always stressed, we choose to pass on the bill in an extraordinary situation where, at the same time, rising food prices make the situation of the world's poorest people so extremely serious. We in the Radical Left will ensure that this does not continue. For us, it is absolutely no good to continue to finance the reception of refugees from Ukraine through development aid. Finally, I would like to return to a praise, or at least a recognition, for the fact that the government actually recognises the commitment of the Danes. It says: "The overwhelming commitment shown by the Danes in connection with the war in Ukraine shows that the Danes are very concerned about what is happening in the world. I fully agree with that, and that is why I hope we will also see that it will be equally important for the government to ensure that when the world's need is greatest, the answer is not that we should remain within the framework of the development aid we have today. Then, of course, we shall look at how we can do more from the Danish side. Because we are an extremely rich country and we can also afford to receive refugees from Ukraine without sending the bill to the world's poorest. So in those words I would like to thank the Minister for his statement and also thank him for his good cooperation on the development policy strategy. I see the Minister as very committed and very engaging with the rapporteurs as a rule. And, of course, I hope that the Minister will ensure that there will be no further savings in development aid. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511154512	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Sophie Callesen. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511154526	Thank you for the floor. I had actually included the statement because that sentence knocked right into my head about how we should respond to the challenges that Denmark faces. Rasmus Nordqvist mentioned. That is, if you read the words, quite the wrong location and quite the wrong wording of the introduction of such a paragraph. Leave it alone. I am shocked that the other day I discovered that it was more than 60 years ago that we started with development aid in Denmark, and that it has actually been a journey that I have been on for many of the years. Of course not all the years, because I went in short pants when you started, and I don't do that anymore. With the statement, we have been given an instrument for a democratic discussion on Danish development cooperation, which many Danes are committed to, and we should be happy about that. There's still a lot of volunteers gone. There are many in the associations. Perhaps there are not quite as many as there have been in the best years, but they are there, and they are also outside the walls in very, very large numbers. Fortunately, they have welcomed our idea of making an annual statement, and they have also used these three weeks before our debate to inspire. That's a good start. We are doing very well in the world and it is important to discuss it. It is my hope that in the years to come we will give more account of trends and experiences and set objectives, figures and results which provide a more transparent basis for decisions. We must learn from what we do; we must not just say: Hooray, hurrah, we have done this. These are lists and tables of what the funds have gone to, etc. And hoof, in this context: Where did the world goals go in the statement? We have a duty to take stock of this, and I suppose it is appropriate to do so in this context. But it is far from the tool that many of us can remember, namely Danida's annual reporting, which was abolished. I do not know why it was abolished, but we can at least answer why it is so far from this statement to the real work, which at that time gave a good picture of where we were and where we were going. It must be possible to see what the path is and whether we stick to the strategy. Since I pay tribute to a principle that states that disagreement makes strong, I would first of all like to say the things that I would like to have done more about. There has to be more coherence between reality and it's harsh and brutal out there and the strategy. It simply needs to be strengthened and the strategy we have developed and the reality that is must be closer to each other. In addition, there must be a better balance between the focus on acute exceptional crises and long-term development aid. We work very, very hard in the wrong direction and focus on the emergency situation. This means, of course, that at some point we will have more refugees, because we are not helping to provide the long-term development that prevents and gives people proper lives. Partnerships with developing countries must be strengthened. Poverty-oriented and rights-based action must be promoted. And I would say that Denmark's interests must be less concentrated. It's fine that we have different ideas with this development aid, and we talked about that the other day. There are different ideas. So, some are out of neighbor love, others call it solidarity, and some call it a good business investment. That is how there are different backgrounds for supporting development aid. Furthermore, the role of civil society must be strengthened and developed on the basis of democracy and human rights, and every worker in this world should have the right both to organise himself in a trade union and to negotiate his own salary. That is why we must have promoted the fight against slavery, trafficking in human beings and child labour and the right to professional organisations. They fill far too little in our work. We need a better framework for popular engagement and locally-led partnerships. We need to focus more on the climate struggle, targeted at the world's poorest and most vulnerable. And it is good that the focus was changed along the way in our debates to the adaptation strategy that is today. I remember the first debates where it was first and foremost that they had to build such wind turbines in Africa. But we have to say that they have to protect their opportunities, since we have destroyed many of the possibilities. Civil society must have the opportunity to take part in humanitarian work. Then we have had a few disagreements along the way, in relation to how we should interpret the Paris agreement on climate aid. If we're going to pay a fair share, we're going to have to pay 5 billion. kr. annual. I think we should, as a minimum. If we are to talk about new, additional funds, it must be funding beyond the 0.7% that the government adheres to and as the Minister interprets it. That's wrong, sir. Minister. We need to be visionary in this area that people before us have been. I shall not quote Svend Auken in that situation. Much of our climate aid is currently part of normal development aid; it should not be. We have to go upstairs because otherwise it's gonna sting at the preventive work that we're gonna do with this money. It is embarrassing that in a rich country like ours we should have such a disagreement. I would like to quote another person I know. This is a quote: Denmark has been a pioneer country on development aid, environment and climate. On all these points, people now come and say to me: What is going on? Denmark reels backwards. It's a very depressing experience... It's a quote from Mr. Mogens Lykketoft in Politiken, and I am almost as happy to listen to him as Svend Auken. Another disagreement is about the theft of 2.1 billion. kr. From development aid to the payment of expenditure on Ukrainian refugees without discussing it with the rapporteurs. Money has been set aside in the Finance Act for refugees with a small amount of money, and we must help Ukrainians fleeing the terrible and unacceptable invasion launched by Putin's Russia. But the money should not be taken from the world's poorest. There were other and more gentle financing options. I would like to mention three: the surplus from last year's Finance Act of 58.7 billion. kr. could have been put into use; they are in the box waiting for us. The money from the national compromise, which in the first round amounts to just over 3.5 billion. kr. This year and rising to 18 billion. kr. in 2033, could have been used, also because it says that they should be used for humanitarian action. And if not exactly to the Ukrainian refugees in 2022, what then? A third possibility could have been a postponement of development aid, but it would have provided that we could have an assurance from the Minister that we would then have 2.1 billion. kr. extra to do well in 2023 in addition to 0.7 per cent, because then it would be a real delay. So these are three less brutal ways of financing it. However, all three proposals were rejected by the Minister and he did not want to negotiate with us as rapporteurs, although EUR 2.1 billion. kr. is far, far beyond the scope of the Finance Act, and that is why I personally believe he had a duty to do so. Then we have to remember, when we talk about refugees, that everyone has to be treated equally. I'm so outraged. I am glad that we are giving the Ukrainians good opportunities when they come here.I am very happy about that.But I am so outraged that if you come from Syria, Mali or Palestine, you are a second-class refugee who has very, very inferior conditions. They must also have the right to work and take training and have proper conditions. All in all, a little more democracy in our cooperation could be very good, sir. Minister. It is good to be informed and to have conversations, but the concrete influence is what makes it more fun and better to put your back on a government. I would say that this sort of thing is working on confidence in the Minister and the government... at least in my case. And it's been very worn out lately. Finally, I hope that there will be better consistency between strategy and financial law. I believe that there really are some obvious differences in our perception of what the strategy says and how it should translate. All in all, however, we are achieving a great deal and I would like to see greater consistency between ability and will. We have the financial ability to do more; we just lack the will. I would like to end with the words of a living and still active politician. He says, quote begin: "Therefore, those parties who say that we have no obligation, for example, to increase aid for developing countries or climate aid, do not understand how the world is today and what responsibility one should assume. I think that angle is very important... there is a need for increased efforts and resources in the climate area in addition to what we are already doing in terms of poverty-oriented development aid and other policies to promote the conditions of developing countries. And his name is Jeppe Kofod, and it was said here in the Assembly Hall. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155558	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155601	Thank you to the rapporteur and also thank you for your always good cooperation with the Enhedslisten. I attached myself to several things, but one thing was about the connection to humanitarian aid, where this more development-oriented focus is missing. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if he could clarify a little more where it is missing, i.e. if he could give a little more examples of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155631	In the old days, to put it bluntly, we distinguished a great deal between humanitarian and development aid. But as a refugee camp can become a more or less permanent place, for example. In Palestine, where we now live almost in refugee camps in the second or third generation, we have to say that it will then turn to development. And there our organisations can easily play a much more important and strategic role than being those who take care of refugees until they can move back once. Because they're in something that looks like a permanent condition. That is why it has to be said that the schools we see in many refugee camps are not of a proper standard if the children we have probably both met say: I dream of becoming an engineer. I want to be a pilot. I want to be a doctor. But they're 50 on the floor, and the only one who has a book is the teacher. And you think how this can turn into a real development for those people when they are placed in such a humanitarian situation. That is why I would like our civil society organisations to be more involved in this kind of cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155738	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here for a brief comment I didn't know exactly where you were in the order.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155746	Thank you. It's so good. Afghanistan we've been in for 20 years. There it is all, as can be seen in the statement, now changed to humanitarian aid. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Could we also look at the development context here at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155806	Firstly, I have to start by saying that it is a disaster that we have been at war in Afghanistan at all. If only the funds we have spent on military action had been transformed into civilian action, I do not even think there would have been any desire for the Taliban to be led there, because then there would have been a much, much stronger development. But in that case, you might well say: they are starving at the moment. We need to help them urgently. However, we must also continue to work with young people, both women and men, going to school, getting jobs and becoming wiser in building democracy and their own civil society organisations. It can go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155842	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. The next speaker is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511155857	With the development policy statement, Danish development policy has become more accessible to citizens. It is more possible than before to hold a democratic discussion on Danish development policy. It will be easier for Danish NGOs and stakeholders to access the policy. That is very positive. We are pleased that we have had this debate on the statement, and I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for your good cooperation with the rapporteurs across the parties. The conversation is now in full swing. During these days, discussion arrangements will be held on the statement. Many NGOs have made their views known and sent their contributions here to the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. I hope that the Minister will now respond to the views of NGOs and citizens and participate in the democratic dialogue on Danish development policy based on this statement. As I have said, we in the Conservative People's Party greatly appreciate the presentation of the development policy strategy so that we can openly discuss development policy, also broadly in terms of how it is related in terms of foreign and security policy; how it affects the whole complex world • one cannot say the world order, from there is not much order right now we are in. In the statement there are many positive tones, but tones are not enough to give a good tune. There are many good declarations of intent, commitments. It mentions the importance of climate, democracy struggle, good governance, cooperation with local and international parties, private business as key growth creators. But there is a lack of concrete information on what the budgets are. What really lies behind the different priorities? Then you can see whether it is a priority or whether it is just a commitment. I also miss the fact in the development policy statement that the historical efforts of NGOs and partnerships that Danish aid is standing on the shoulders of. There are, for example: The entire SRR agenda, which Denmark has had and has a strong position in relation to. This also applies to how local anchoring has been secured and how aid is agile and has been changeable, because we have some good tools and because we also have some NGOs that are extremely adaptable. We have seen this both in Afghanistan and in the Sahel, but also how they really are grasping the green agenda. International cooperation is important, especially for a small country like Denmark, that is to say, that we place ourselves well internationally. It sounds a little hollow in relation to the concrete commitments, including the total absence of the world objectives, which, to my great surprise, are lacking as a point of reference and a framework for international development cooperation. Where are they? It is something that Denmark prides itself on being at the forefront of. There is also the longer-term commitment to young people's education and involvement. There is something about a youth panel, there are some measures, but what can we do about young people? It is therefore the majority of the population in fragile and developing countries. Education is a fundamental foundation, as we have heard from previous rapporteurs, for creating active citizens who can create good lives and opportunities for the future for themselves and their families. It is also important to get that education and information to participate actively in the democratic conversation, just as we do in Denmark. In many developing countries, education is very difficult to obtain, especially for girls. They finish school too soon. The Covid-19 pandemic really also put a great limit on education because a billion was discharged. We believe that something is missing here from Denmark, namely that there is more about the construction of well-functioning resistant public education systems, including the partnership that we have met with here several times in Denmark, among other things. Global Partnership for Education and how is it that it places us both in terms of building proper management, but also in terms of creating future opportunities for young people? Democracy and rights are important. Denmark must take the lead. We kind of agreed on that when we sat there and discussed it. And it's very important to the Conservatives, it's very important to me. It is absolutely essential for good governance or governance, robust tax systems, democracy and growth in developing countries that we unite on it, that we get the framework in place. But there are a little more dripping and a little more incoherent examples. 25 kroner has been set aside. for tax and financial support, the so-called Addis Ababa initiative. It's not much. There is something about a techno-democracy conference, but what does it contribute to? There has been aid for the evacuation of human rights defenders in four countries, but what are those organisations doing and what have they been doing there? A little praise is also needed, and that is about the efforts in Ethiopia. Looks like it's been going really well. There is a focus, and again it is something about concentrating, gathering together with partners and NGOs, and that we have a presence. It's important. We have also been to the Human Rights Council, but it is not quite clear what is meant by a print. I hope we've done more than that. So, overall, we miss a little more what strategic and coherent action is. Democracy, rights and governance must go against it, but it must also go vertically. Objective 1 is economic development and combating poverty. But the focus here is a lot on refugees. There is not much about economic development and the fight against poverty. This is quite much the refugee problem that we are focusing on, and rather short-sightedly, rather than looking at the more fundamental and structural problems, for example. in Afghanistan. We've been here for 20 years. We've strengthened education. As I talked about with the UN's head of Asia here last week when she was in Denmark, you could actually act and work around Afghanistan quite a lot of places. It is important that we have a development focus in Afghanistan. The humanitarian isn't moving anything. It just helps to make sure that people don't die, but it's not what creates the future. There are positive expressions about the potential role of Danish companies as growth engines. It is very important that we create a private sector, economic development and jobs. There are a lot of people who are currently sleeping on a packed suitcase in the light of high energy prices and food prices. There are some exciting and interesting initiatives concerning IFU and Sweden and private investment targets of 3-4 billion. kr. It's big, and we need to scale. That sounds really good. But what will be done in concrete terms to create the local private sector as well, to create local jobs in the fight against poverty? Nature and climate take up a lot. That is also important. There is no doubt about it. It says here that we translate a lot through the multilateral partnerships and that we also cooperate with the AU, the African Union, on energy, water and climate-adjusted food and agriculture. That is also good. You then suddenly knock down on energy and cooking to Rwanda. This is such a strange leap again, in terms of what the strategic focus is, how we do it, how we do it with our own private sector, the local partners, and also here is the question: how do we set requirements for good governance and financial transparency if we are to promote a private sector-driven green transition? So we lack both a link to management, but also a link to what we want to achieve in relation to the challenges we have, to food security, to the prevention of hunger disasters and, above all, to the fight against poverty. Finally, we call for our development aid to be seen into the world situation we are facing. We also see an Africa where China has agreed to the economic side. We see with horror how Russia has agreed to the security agenda. This is a huge threat to the local population, but indeed to Europe as well. So we look forward to having forward-looking good discussions and look forward to seeing what results we want to achieve, and with whom and how and certainly not least for the local population. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511160742	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511160745	Thank you for that and also thank you for your cooperation with the Conservative rapporteur. A rapporteur, I think it was Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, asked if it was not okay that there were Danish interests when he quoted the introduction. Is it not important that we say that we are doing development cooperation in order to create a decent life for the world's poorest people that this is the main objective? If business can play a sensible role, it's okay, because they have some capabilities that we can use. But that is not the main objective. It's not like it's the main purpose to get out and make some money. We had that discussion in the 1980s and 1990s, where we talked about return rates and such things, and then it was almost the most important thing for business. And business often has a passive attitude to development cooperation and says: well, there is an opportunity, then we use it, and we also contribute what we can to the price we now have to pay for it. But is it not important that we say that the main purpose of our development aid is to create a fairer world in which people can live a good life and thus develop and that their children can go to school and so on? etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511160857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511160858	Thank you. It can be said that in the law on development policy it is, after all, the fight against poverty and the creation of development. Then there are ways to do it, and there are different ways. We cannot change the whole world with development aid. It is clear that we must also include the private sector in this. So the private sector can be seen as both an instrument for this, but I would also say that the private sector clearly has an interest in taking responsibility in the world, getting a stable world. We also see that in relation to Ukraine, where among others. Danish Industry has been out looking for jobs and also been out matching local needs with donations. There is also an example of this in the statement. There are many of the ways they work that are fast and effective in reaching out in several ways. So there I see that it can play very well with our assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511160950	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511160951	I agree with that. I remember when South Africa abolished apartheid and important Danish companies had taken the lead in the boycott of South Africa because it was one of the means to move on for the black population. Mandela's first step was to go to Denmark, Norway and Sweden and say: I would also like to talk to your business community, because they have done us a favour, and we would like to cooperate with them. Of course, things like that are connected. Another thing is that Lars Løkke Rasmussen did everything he could from the first day to cut development aid in 2015. The Conservatives were an exception and said: No, we are not cutting in the current year. How does Conservatives feel about the 0.7 percent? and climate aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161036	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161037	We take the view that we are, of course, holding onto the 0.7%. That is our commitment. We need to see this right now that it is difficult to increase development aid more, because we are all facing a huge challenge. But we also see that there are ways we can work, so we are involved, what can we say, to reduce CO2 We also do that with green solutions. We also see that we should have a review of all our business instruments so that they play better together. But we're holding onto the 0.7% that things are right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161115	The next brief remark is to Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161120	Thank you for a good speech and good cooperation. In general terms, there is no doubt that the Conservative rapporteur has a great heart for the matter, and I think our cooperation is a pleasure. I have a question for the position of the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party on the part of development policy which is about combating irregular migration. This is part of the strategy, where we are among other things. writes that we want to prevent poverty, fragility in conflicts and violence, and that we want to create sustainable alternatives to irregular migration. We will combat irregular migration and help more better layers of central migration routes. This neighbourhood and migration fund was also created, which brings together some things we have been doing for a few years, and also adds some new things, and there was some debate in this regard. I also recall that the Conservative rapporteur was somewhat critical of at least some of it. Conversely, I have an understanding of the Conservative People's Party as some who also think it is important to prevent migration. So I just want to ask you about the Conservative People's Party's position on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161226	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161227	The attitude here is that we miss a Nexux approach to it, and what we talked about was how we act in fragile countries, and we did not see at all that those instruments were involved. And when it was then stated that it is now called a migration fund, then the question was: where is the approach in terms of fragility, where is the Nexus approach, and what is this fund going to do? And it turned out that it should primarily build migration management and asylum systems locally, and we see that this has little to do with preventing migration and helping those who escape, but more to ensure that they do not move on. After all, we think that there should be many more instruments for it; of course, people must also have a proper process when seeking asylum or wanting to migrate, whatever country they are in. But it just seemed very narrow, and then we missed the Nexus approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161320	Did Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen a brief comment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161322	My view of that fund is probably not as narrow as that expressed by the rapporteur here. But I would also just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is something that the Conservative People's Party, if we have a new government and the Conservative People's Party comes back into government, will change, i.e. whether we can change, for example. The Conservative People's Party wants to dismantle the fund, or whether there are some other concrete things that the Conservative People's Party wants here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161349	Thank you. I cannot say in concrete terms whether we want to set up a fund, and it is clear that migration is still a huge challenge. It is a challenge for all of us, both in terms of people fleeing across the Mediterranean and in terms of humanitarian disasters. However, we will clearly look at how to prevent migration and address some of the fundamental problems, but at the same time, of course, we will have a migration focus in connection with irregular migration and stop the trafficking in human beings that is taking place where people are being treated horribly, as we ourselves saw on a journey we were on with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161423	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511161432	Thank you to the Minister for the statement, which, of course, gives an excellent picture of the Danish commitment around the world. I have chosen to focus my rapporteur's speech on what is going on in the Middle East, which is very relevant, since Palestine is a major beneficiary of assistance from Denmark. There is very little mention of this, I think, in the statement. Whether that means that the Danish commitment is about to fade out, I hardly think. Unfortunately, I believe that the government is not the least interested in cutting back on the areas of autonomy. The figures also show something quite different: Denmark is once again increasing support for the West Bank and Gaza. As I understand it, from this year on, Denmark is increasing its annual contribution to UNRWA, which is the UN programme for self-government by 35 million. kr. The promise means that during the period 2020-2023 UNRWA will receive 105 million each year. kr. from Denmark corresponding to an increase of 50 per cent. of the previous annual amount of aid. In my view, in the view of the Danish People's Party, it is quite unreasonable that Danish taxpayers should in this way legitimise, on the one hand, a corrupt regime in the West Bank and, on the other hand, a terrorist organisation in Gaza. Fortunately, the United States, which knows everything about the situation, has understood what is going on and has chosen the sensible course of action, namely to stop all aid to self-government. So far, the United States has paid one third of the total budget. It was the former President who stopped the cash flow to UNRWA, and President Biden has continued the obvious right step. The second day the Israelis marked their independence day, and a few hours later Hamas struck in the Elat area, where two terrorists murdered three civilians and wounded four others hard. As always, the killings were followed by a fervent enthusiasm and celebration of the killings in several cities, while Denmark and the EU continue to send huge sums of money to the Palestinians, accompanied by an explanation that it is money for social purposes, education, health and infrastructure. However, we always fail to check that the money is being spent for the purposes that have been granted. In fact, they do not. The money goes to corruption, to weapons, to underground passages from Gaza into Israel, to rocket shooting across Israel and, above all, to cash rewards for the terrorists who succeed in killing Jews in goose eyes. The two terrorists who are known to be but have not yet been found have already secured with the killings a large cash bonus, but also a lifelong benefit to their families as a Palestinian recognition of their atrocities. I would venture to claim that it is actually the European Union which, with its increasing financial support for the Palestinians, is jointly responsible for an increase in terror in Israel. What does it look like when the European Union tells the outside world that it supports social purposes when it actually knows that most of the taxpayers' money is channelled for quite different purposes? This is also problematic in Denmark. Yes, Denmark as a member of the European Union is a problem. We must dig into what Danish subsidy crowns are used for by the Palestinians. But when you ask questions about this, the answers are always questionable. Why? Because no answer so far can prove that the money goes for purposes other than terror. Denmark follows only the European Union, as it is said, but it is also responsible for ensuring that the EU's financial support policy in relation to the Palestinians creates more terror. A few years ago I visited Israel on the West Bank with the foreign policy mention, and in this connection I had a conversation with an Israeli political analyst who said that the Palestinians seem on their way to becoming irrelevant. I was somewhat surprised by the announcement and asked him to explain himself. He went on to say that it had become the case that not only the government but a broad majority of the Knesset had realised that, whatever was done, a peace agreement could never be reached with the Palestinians, which is deeply divided and sometimes even warring one another. It is, he said, not only the Israelis who will no longer spend their time on the Palestinians. His attitude is similar to that of a number of Arab countries. It has long since been found that Egypt's very close, even intimate, relationship with the old archenemy has developed into a success story. Egypt and Jordan were the first Arab countries to open diplomatic relations with Israel and have since benefited from cooperation in many areas. After Egypt, Jordan, UAE and Bahrain, Morocco is on its way. Has it gone as the political analyst predicted? Have the Palestinians become irrelevant? At any rate, Israel's commitment to the Arab countries seems to have succeeded rather than spending time, energy and money in an attempt to establish a good relationship with the Palestinians. It is a task that seems hopeless and unwitting. It is very sad to have to say what the Palestinians have done so irrelevantly. The support we give to the Palestinians is then a problem in itself, since we officially have no idea what is going on, so I call on the government to carry out at least some kind of investigation into where that money goes, because it is large sums of money, it is not only from Denmark, it is also from elsewhere, so a proper control system, but also a briefing by the government on what was intended to tell the public what the Danish taxpayers' money is going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162044	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162051	Did I hear the rapporteur say that when development aid is given to projects in Palestine, is it to support terrorism? And does this mean that the rapporteur regards Palestinians as terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162105	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162107	No, I certainly don't. I regard Hamas as a terrorist movement and members of Hamas as terrorists.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162115	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162117	Okay, but to ask again: is it the rapporteur's view that Denmark's support for certain projects in Palestine is an expression of support for terrorism?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162129	There are projects which are of a practical and factual nature quite excellent. However, most of the money allocated to Palestinian self-government and to the regime in Gaza is, in my view, money that is given directly to terrorism. I know of some examples: if a terrorist, for example. If people and himself blow up, he is sure that all ends and edges will be provided for his family, who will then receive a lifelong benefit from the regime. That is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162204	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162207	Now we have had a lot of discussions about Palestine, and I think that is important, and we have even put the subject on as a separate topic in quite a lot of debates in this Chamber, and we also have a political basis in the Folketing of three rounds, where we have said what we think about the conditions in Israel and Palestine, with very, very strong support from virtually all parties except the Danish People's Party and perhaps also New Citizens' Party I do not quite remember whether they were in the Folketing when we decided on the latter and therefore I am in favour of controlling all Danish development funds and what they are going to. That is what is called transparency, and that is also why we have the system we have where corruption and misuse of money or theft are published on the website. And there I think the rapporteur should do the same as a lot of foreign aid organisations and others where we have to announce that there is something illegal there and there is something illegal about what the money is given to, and then clean it up. But remember, if you make a population irrelevant, you promote extreme attitudes and, if you let people starve, you also promote extreme attitudes. It is therefore a bit of a dangerous game that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will be discussing if we are not to ensure that they can at least survive as long as they have their own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162336	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162337	Now it is representatives of some Arab countries who call the Palestinians irrelevant, and it is also something that the Israelis do. The last development, which I also mention, is about the good cooperation that is now taking place between Israel and several Arab countries. That is where the Palestinians are referred to as irrelevant, because on that side too, especially on the Egyptian side, we have realised that this is not going to get any further, that there is no prospect of peace and happiness.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162405	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162407	Now the rapporteur blamed the Palestinians for having different opinions or differences of opinion. However, we must not be long in Israel so that we can see that there are differences in attitudes, and there are also quite extreme attitudes in Israeli society. That is why I believe that it is not the occupying person who has the main responsibility for getting a process under way so that the solution is found that both peoples have the right to a country? Or does the rapporteur not recognise at all that the Palestinians have any right to their own country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162440	But that's where we disagree, sir. Christian Juhl. Because I know that, and that's what the Israelis themselves say... that you've tried again and again to get started on this at all, but you're met by great hostility. And I think that is a disaster for those Arabs and Palestinians who want to live in peace and harmony and who certainly do not support Hamas and the terrorist movements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162505	The next brief remark is from Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162507	Thank you. Firstly, I would just like to thank the Danish People's Party for coming here and taking part in the debate, as far as I can see as the only party that is not part of the development policy strategy, but I think it is very good that the party is participating anyway. Secondly, it is part of the strategy that Denmark must meet the UN's objective of giving at least 0.7%. of development aid. And that is something you can agree to, even if you are not in the strategy, and we also had a recent debate on climate aid, where Mr. Søren Espersen, as far as I remember, said that the Danish People's Party was in favour of us giving 0.7 per cent. of assistance. And I just want to know if that's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162556	It has always been my view, as well as that of the Danish People's Party, that this is a figure that the United Nations has decided, and we stick to that, and I hope that this is the framework enough to be able to make projects, and that is what I shall also add in this debate. It's not to belittle it in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162617	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is the Minister for Development Cooperation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511162640	Dear rapporteurs, and you really are, I think it is wonderful that you have given so many really constructive input to our first statement, based on our new development policy strategy. Mrs Ellemann said that a debate of this nature is almost like a public meeting of rapporteurs, and I think that is actually right. It may well be that it would give even more attention to our conversations and dialogue if that were what it was called, and especially if there were coffee and cake as usual for our rapporteur meetings. In June last year, we were eight parties that launched our new development policy strategy, the Common Market on the world. We agreed that it would be natural and useful to introduce an annual debate on the state of development cooperation in order to be able to take the temperature of development cooperation and raise new awareness, and that is what we are doing now, and I am really, really, really grateful for that. This is the first statement based on the development policy strategy, and it is also my first. We've done the best we could. I've done the best I could. I have the motto that I really want the best, but it's not always that I know the best, and it's a discussion like this one, of course, a completely fantastic tool to uncover. And I really think you have contributed very, very constructively to that. It is the case that we have been given a framework for making a statement and, according to it, it is actually the case that the statement should be read in this Chamber in 30 minutes. I'm not quite sure that we've been keeping track... at least you have to read very quickly. But it is also just to tell you rapporteurs who have mentioned whether there should be more fullness, whether there should have been something more concrete, that yes, it should be there, and I promise that if I am here next year, when a statement is to be made, I will take care to try to take in the good inputs. Development cooperation must help to respond to the challenges and listen to what I say to the world and the challenges that Denmark is facing. There are several of you who have criticized a wording on one of the first pages about Denmark and the world, and when I read it today, I would like to say that the wording I am presenting to you here is more comprehensive for what the strategy stands for, that is, that development cooperation should help to respond to the challenges that the world is facing and the challenges that Denmark is thus facing. Because we share the world. The global challenges are also Denmark's challenges. The statement gives concrete examples of this. You do not think it gives enough concrete examples of that, and I think we should try to correct that. But it is of course a matter of expressing how Denmark tackles the challenges that exist. With the Universal Declaration of the World, a broad majority of Parliament's parties agreed that Denmark, through its development cooperation, should help more people better, combat poverty, inequality, climate change, conflicts and irregular migration. For although progress is also being made globally, for example. When it comes to achieving the global goals, we must not lose sight of the challenges we face. Today, more people than ever before are very, very close to 100 million people on the run. There is war in our vicinity and there is a food crisis raging. The pandemic has contributed to the fact that the progress of girls and women's conditions and rights that we have seen over the last few decades is at risk of being slowed down and poverty is rising again after many years of decline. The world's most vulnerable is hit hardest by the various crises we know. Denmark must, of course, play a part in raising its international responsibilities here. International agreements, such as the World Goals and the Paris Agreement, are an important part of the framework for the World Covenant. And when you can criticise me for the fact that the global objectives are not clearly stated, I would say that I think they are extremely clear from the strategy, which is why they are a basis for it. Let me put it directly: I do not see development cooperation as a zero-sum game which can only benefit the world's poor and vulnerable or Denmark. It is not a either or it is really a boat and it must be, and it is in Denmark's clear interest to use development cooperation to contribute to a more peaceful, sustainable and equal world free of poverty and inequality. The report shows that development cooperation has turned significantly towards the most fragile countries and regions where people live in the most difficult conditions, with a special effort for the most vulnerable, for girls and for women and for the most marginalised groups. We know that it is also the poorest and most vulnerable who are hit hardest by climate change. I myself have just returned from Ethiopia, where over 8 million people are affected by the worst drought in decades. The drought ravages most of the Horn of Africa and has enormous consequences. We are looking right now at humanitarian funding for the Horn of Africa, which can help address the acute situation, while also looking at more long-term and sustainable solutions. I myself witnessed several of them down there, in relation to how to secure crops. We need to do more in this direction. As the statement also shows, we are taking the lead when what we are going to help create resilience to climate change among the world's poorest and secure long-term development, and we must continue to do so. In the coming year, the government will continue to turn development cooperation in the direction set by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We must continue to take the lead in the most vulnerable and marginalised groups, and we must continue to bring about change for girls and women. Their rights and conditions are fundamental to making progress and increasing growth in the poorest countries, and education is an extremely important factor here. At COP27 in Egypt we will continue with the green Danish leadership when it comes to providing funding for climate adaptation that benefits the poorest. Together with like-minded donor countries, we are working towards achieving the objective of doubling funding for adaptation from COP26. At the same time, we will work to ensure that new sources of funding are put into play for climate projects in developing countries, among others. through IFU and our new guarantee instrument. In relation to COP27, I really care about generating momentum in relation to the important issue of climate-induced losses and damage. I want many of the developing countries to sense that. They're asking for it almost all. We also continue to support those who are at the forefront of democracy and human rights. That is why, in the coming year, we will, among other things, be voting in favour of this report. establish a new democracy initiative to support the work on democracy and promote democratic dialogue, both online and offline. Here I would like to see better opportunities created to reach those who are making the changes. It can be local organisations or more loosely organized networks of e.g. young people, movements. Russia's terrible invasion of Ukraine casts long, long shadows. Denmark has made a significant effort to help Ukraine with its urgent humanitarian needs, and it will continue to be important to help refugees from Ukraine inside and outside Denmark. This has created the need for the necessary re-prioritisation that we have been through. Denmark will also be a strong partner in reconstruction when the time comes in Ukraine. At the same time, however, it is essential to keep a close eye on the many consequences of the war elsewhere in the world, not least when it comes to food security. I would like to quote here those of you who have missed a focus on it in the statement: we were just finishing the statement in the days when the war in Ukraine broke out. This is one of the reasons why we have not been able to deal with the terrible consequences of price increases of as much as 33 per cent in the report. But I promise you, rapporteurs: I have seen it. I saw it in Africa last week, i.e. how hard it is, compared to the fact that we can do much less with the billions we have for humanitarian action in the acute situation. The energy crisis we ourselves are experiencing in Denmark also hits the developing countries hard, and of course Denmark can and must also help to remedy that. At the same time as our strong solidarity with Ukraine, we must have a keen eye on the other global crises and on our long-term objective of development aid. The vast majority of the nearly 100 million refugees and displaced persons are in the developing countries. I have said this before: that we must be where we can make the greatest difference to most people. We can do that in Africa. We agreed on that when we made the strategy. It is the continent that is furthest from achieving the UN's global goals and where 12 million young people enter the labour market each year without there being enough jobs for them. Yes, there are only about 3 million new jobs a year. People need to have hope for a better future in their own countries. We must create societies in which they want to live and do not want to leave. When I meet with young people in our youth panels around the world, they are looking for a better future • job opportunities and sustainable development where they are. I think what I have listened to in relation to your good input has given me many, many thoughts and ideas on how we can pick up on what is the goal of our strategy. And I will also ensure that we have a good discussion at our subsequent rapporteur meetings on what we can do. Now that we can, it is really important to get the impressions and experiences and the discussion with the local organisations and partners out there. You should also know that when we talk about how we get even better fleshed out, what results we have because you have said that we work at the Ministry on such an OpenAid, where we try to gather all the good results that are there. I hope that when we meet here next year for the debate on the statement, we can then, in addition to the written statement that I make and deliver to you, have a document, a floating document in which we determine all the results using it that several of you have also said that the partners are delivering out there. I would like to say that one of the great joys I experience as Minister for Development is our section in the strategy on partnerships • having such a rich civil society organisation in Denmark, and that they have partners in the world, is our best muscle to reach the weakest around the world with. This applies both to the SPA agreements, which we have had renewed, but also to the CISU and the others. So I am very pleased about that, and I would also like to acknowledge it from the platform, that I have participated in both the Global Focus and the CISU. That's what I've had the opportunity to do. There have also been other events which have been the subject of our debate today. Only yesterday it was at CISU where a great many people presented it constructively. Several of you also participated with me at the Global Focus event, where they also kicked a tiny bit for us and had done a great job and almost made an extra chapter that could just be put into our own development strategy. That energy, that commitment, that is what we must keep alive, and I really hope that we will also be instrumental in our debate here today. But thank you very much to all of you immediately. And then there's time for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511163938	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief remarks. First, it is Mrs Karen Ellemann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511163943	It is good to be the rapporteur in the Chamber. Very often I sit in the chair, and I just want to address the Minister's use of direct indictment! Well, that's the President's job. Thank you for the Minister's speech. I am pleased that the Minister also gives recognition to the many actors who, in general, keep the debate alive and keep both the Minister and the rapporteurs in their ears. Now it is a time of busyness in here and a referendum, which is why it has been difficult to accommodate all the invitations to this debate. But one thing I would like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister has mentioned a little about the consideration of the forthcoming statement. I would like to thank you for emphasising the focus on girls and women and all that we have called for, but is there an interest on the part of the Minister before the statement is completed and I recognise that it must be read in 30 minutes just to ask for a little input from some of the strategic partners in order to get perhaps even more concrete examples? Maybe they're already there, but that's what I'm a little unsure about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164104	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164105	Thank you. I would like to answer Mrs Karen Ellemann: yes, I would very much like that. I think we need to take input, and we also need to develop ideas together. Several of the rapporteurs have mentioned exactly what we can do nothing better than support this commitment. It's our life-snare; it's also our legitimacy in terms of spending 0.7 per cent. For this. And in relation to those who have said that they want more than 0.7%, I would say that it is also one of the ways of getting that indictment done. Because we have so rich a civil society, and we are world champions in the formation of associations it is out there where opinions are broken and formed. So I would very much like us to look at that in the rapporteur's group how we can try to get input. But I think that the debates in which I took part have been really lively. I think it may also be the timing of the statement that comes and they have had plenty of time to do so, but it is true that there have also been some things that have upset it a little. But let's finally try to talk about how we can optimize that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164207	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164209	Then I have a follow-up question, which lies in the tail of it with the popular commitment and which is about the decision to transform or rename what was formerly called the Magazine 360°, into the world of things, which I think there are many waiting with excitement. I suppose it's on the stairs, or have I simply overlooked the fact that it has been launched? Because I don't think I've seen it yet, and I think we talked about March-April. Now we're past March-April, so does the Minister know anything that can be revealed here about a launch?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164248	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164255	Thank you very much. At least I know that on one of my last trips there was a reporter from the world of Things, so they're collecting at the moment. I don't quite remember, but it's here in the spring, it's coming. And I'm waiting for it with just as much excitement. I have said that I actually think that, in relation to the gap we have had from Magasinet 360° to the world of Things, we should probably have done better. It is quite frank recognition when it is a question that overall engagement is so important to us politically. But we just have to look forward to it, and so do I.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164322	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164325	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech and the answers that came in this speech. I simply have so long a list of questions, so I should sit and think about what it is I have to go into here. There's one case in particular that's pressing on with me. We are some who have been talking about losses and damage as an important climate agenda for many years, and finally a government in Denmark and a minister in Denmark have taken the words in its mouth. So thank you for that! That, of course, also obliges you to take the words in your mouth. One concerns what concrete initiatives, in addition to involvement in the Santiago network, the Minister is thinking of supporting. The second is that many of the countries experiencing losses and damage argue that losses and damage must have their own financing category in climate finance, so that the money is not suddenly taken from adaptation that has just been fought through and then moved to losses and damage. Does the Minister agree that there should be independent reporting?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164432	I am really glad that we have thrown ourselves into losses and injuries, I am really glad that we are trying to make as much preparation towards COP27 as possible. I got a lot of learning with me home, especially from Bangladesh, where we focused on this. I had a meeting down there with a group of experts from Bangladesh, some of the main ones who also participate in the COPs and have been doing so for a long time. I should like to say that we spoke both against the ideas that have been put forward so far, so we are in the process of considering them. There are very great demands also on the national states to work into loss and damage, so it is well prepared, including on the part of the countries, because people are really talking in the East and the West at the moment. I look forward very much to the fact that we in the rapporteur's circle can also have a discussion on this, that is to say how we feel best, because there are factions in this. On the subject of financing, I would like to say: is it an insurance scheme that is needed or what is it? I am not wise enough on this yet to give concrete answers, but I would very much like to discuss it in the rapporteur's circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164544	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164545	I shall look forward to that because, as I said, it is not a new concept. It is very new that a Danish minister takes the words in his mouth, thank you again, but it is of course important that we build this precisely on the reality experienced here, that is to say what the reality of the developing countries, who are standing and experiencing losses and damage today, is. It's not about starting to put an interest-bearing agenda on the Danish side, so I'm glad to hear that you've taken hold of it in Bangladesh with these people. Does the Minister agree that it is not the same as the adaptation agenda that it has its own separate legs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164635	It can be said that when we talk to some of the organisations about losses and damage organisations that also work with adaptation they say: yes, that is also a lot of what we are working with. So there's something in both camps. However, I think we should place ourselves quite properly and sensibly, and we should spend some time on that. So while someone was building a higher dike, someone was drilling holes through the dyke to get salt water in. This is among other things. situations I was discussing with the experts out there. So an area distribution is among other things. also some of the things that it experienced the world's great challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164719	Thank you. The next brief remark is on Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164723	Thank you. I may have been a little hard on the Minister in my own speech earlier. Now I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to make it up to you, if not better. I would like to ask you a very specific question, because we are going to talk about development aid in general. In relation to the reconstruction of Ukraine, Denmark has promised to contribute to it, and I am very pleased and proud of that. But I would like to hear from the Minister how he imagines that we should finance that task. And I hope, of course, that it will be as an additional allocation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164800	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164805	I mean, I haven't been part of this discussion, not even in the government, so I have no answer to give on how this funding is going to take place. But I have noticed some very positive things in Danish politics in recent months, both the national compromise and the special law. I hope that a framework can be laid for the great challenge facing Europe and Ukraine in this area and try to have a broad political debate on it, because this has major consequences if we really are to take on a really worthwhile task.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164837	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164838	Thank you. I fully agree with that. We must have agreed a general framework for how we take responsibility for Ukraine and how we ensure that we have Danish development aid that is not cut to the bone more than it has already been. However, I would like to ask the Minister anyway whether he has any suggestions as to how to finance reconstruction efforts, for example. Ukraine or, for that matter, the reception of several Ukrainian refugees if it is not to be on his own territory.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164911	In other words, money can only be spent once, and I do not want to go into what is very much the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, i.e. to find out how the money is to be allocated. I can say, and I have also discussed this with the rapporteur, that the special law in its comments made a very clear statement on the financing of the first estimated 20 000 refugees, and that was 2.1 billion. kr. from § 6.3. And I know I have the answer to that. I really tried to allocate that money from that direction as carefully and as considerately as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164945	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511164948	Yes, and following that, I would like to ask the Minister a question: is he still in doubt that together we could have found more gentle ways of financing refugees from Ukraine, i.e. if we had actually had a real influence on it, could have found more gentle ways of financing refugees from Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165013	Now it was offered where they were to be found, and with the care I and my people in the ministry were looking at our accounts, where there were only three quarters left in the year, I would say that it should be a great surprise that someone could have found it more considerate and gentle than what I did. It was relatively much money, but it was good that we were no longer in 2022. And the discussion is hypothetical in relation to whether they should have been found elsewhere when the law told me where to find them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165053	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165055	Thank you. I thought you were such a democratic government where you discussed the possibilities before you were told some things. At least we do that in our party. The second question is: what does the Minister think of the obvious discrimination between Ukrainian refugees, who have relatively good relations with what we are used to in Denmark, and that we then have another class of refugees from Syria, from Afghanistan, Palestine and other countries running under the old rather harsh refugee regime that is in Denmark? What does the Minister personally think of us having two standards for the way we treat refugees, depending on which war or country you come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165139	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165142	I personally think that the special law was a very, very fine political craftsmanship. When it ends up with seven parties voting in favour of it and then we are up to eight parties, then it is a good political craftsmanship that takes account of a totally extraordinary difficult situation in which Europe has been brought into being, because we ourselves are becoming close areas. And all the legislation we have, sir. Christian Juhl, is based on a majority which can agree on what the law should look like. Well, that's the work we do politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165216	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165224	The debate is open and first we will give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165321	Thank you. We have B 175 to make permanent residence conditional for 10 years after the award, and thank you for the proposal to the proposers. The Conservative People's Party proposes in the resolution to make permanent residence permits conditional upon the fact that for 10 years after they have obtained permanent residence permits, foreigners do not commit serious crime or receive cash benefits for more than 12 months. The Conservative People's Party points out that there is a hard core of people from Iraq, Somalia, Lebanon and Turkey who frequently commit crime and receive social benefits under the Act on Active Social Policy. We make many and strict demands on foreigners who apply for permanent residence permits, and this also applies to requirements relating to crime and self-reliance. Foreigners who are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of at least 60 days or 6 months in prison depending on the nature of the crime will not be able to obtain permanent residence permits at all. Outside of these cases, a custodial sentence will result in a waiting period for several years and the receipt of assistance under the Act on Assets during the last four years prior to the submission of the application and until the date of the decision is normally an obstacle to a permanent residence permit. These requirements, in conjunction with inter alia: The employment and Danish requirement reflects the fact that a foreigner who is granted a permanent residence permit is integrated and generally will not fill in the negative statistics on crime and public support. The figures show that the proportion of foreigners who have been granted permanent residence permits in the years 2007-2017 and who have not received public benefits under the Act on Assets for more than 1 month within 3 years of receiving permanent residence permits has increased. In 2010, 79 per cent had not received benefits under the Act on Assets for at least 3 years after the granting of permanent residence permits. That number has grown to 96 percent. in 2017. In terms of crime, 5 per cent. of the total approx. 14,000 foreigners who were granted permanent residence permits in the period 2016-2020, subsequently convicted of crime. The vast majority of this has been fined. So the vast majority of those who are granted permanent residence permits continue to make a positive contribution to society. If we impose additional conditions after the granting of a permanent residence permit, it will in fact be the case that the permanent residence permit will be postponed for 10 years. We still have integration problems in Denmark, and it is also a fact that crime is particularly common among certain nationalities. Crime must have consequences, and so must it. The clear starting point of the Aliens Act is that foreigners who are sentenced to an unconditional sentence of liberty for a large number of criminal offences, including theft, violence and robbery, must be expelled. This applies regardless of the duration of the stay in this country, and if the alien has not been legally resident in this country for more than the last five years, there must also be expulsion if the sentence is conditional. Expulsion must take place unless it will certainly be contrary to Denmark's international obligations to demonstrate. As you know, the lawyers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration are examining the possibility that, within the framework of the conventions, we can further tighten the expulsion rules, and I expect to be able to table a legislative proposal on this in the next session of Parliament. It is the case that the vast majority of those who receive permanent residence permits do not receive public assistance or commit crime, we tightened the rules on permanent residence permits on several points in 2016 and 2017, and I now think we have a good balance in the rules on permanent residence permits. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution and I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165707	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165711	Thank you. I had hoped that the Minister, when he saw these surprising figures from his own ministry, who among other things. shows that almost 40%. of men from Somalia who had a permanent stay in 2010-2015 have subsequently committed serious crime, so thought it was something that would be addressed. The Minister is right, of course, that the vast majority of those who have permanent residence in Denmark do not commit crime, but I think we should do something about those who do. The Minister talks about the possibility of expelling people, but the Minister knows very well that in the case of people who have lived long in Denmark it is almost impossible to expel them. So this would be some kind of yellow card, so that if you, the first 10 years after you have been permanently resident, commit serious crime, lose the permanent residence. It is not the same as having to be deported, but you can then go back to your former residence status. Does the Minister really think that you should just do nothing? Does the Minister just think that we should accept these statistics and do nothing, or will the Minister try to get to us just a little bit?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165814	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165815	Thank you. No, we should not accept that people who have permanent residence in Denmark abuse the trust that has been shown to them by giving them permanent residence. This is, of course, unacceptable and, as I said in my speech, we must do everything we can to ensure that those who do so can subsequently be expelled as far as possible. But I also think it is important to say that, in relation to how it has been in the past, it is going the right way and that it is still fewer and fewer who are in that category, although, of course, I will admit that there are groups from some countries where it is still a large number and, of course, too large.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165902	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165903	Fortunately, as I can see from the figures here, these are a few groups: Somalia, Iraq, Iran and so on. Does the Minister think that it would have a preventive effect if we say that in the early years of permanent residence it does not have to be 10 years; we could also put it somewhere else, you could lose it if you commit serious crime? Does the Minister think that would have a preventive effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165928	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511165929	Some people may want it, but it has to be kept up against what I said, that is to say, 96 per cent. of those who are granted a residence permit do not use the public system, public services, three years after they have received it; relatively few commit crime. 95% Don't do it. The vast majority of the 5 percent. are fines. There are a lot of groups for which a permanent residence permit instead becomes a temporary ten-year residence permit until you can obtain a permanent residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170008	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Sand Kjær of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170024	Thank you for the floor. With the resolution here, the Conservative People's Party is proposing to make permanent residence conditional on not committing serious crime or receiving cash benefits for more than 12 months. It is proposed that the residence permit should be conditional for 10 years after permanent residence has been granted. We in the Social Democratic Party, like the Conservative People's Party, believe that we must make very high demands on foreigners who want a permanent residence permit in Denmark. For foreigners coming to Denmark must of course do their duty before they can claim their right. That is why I fully appreciate the motivation behind the proposals put forward by the authors. Why should we accept in Denmark that foreigners who have been granted permanent residence commit serious crime or fail to contribute to the community? It is basically a rather large declaration of confidence from Danish society when we allow people with another country of origin to stay in Denmark indefinitely. Fortunately, the majority of foreigners who are granted permanent residence in Denmark comply with the law. They do not commit crime, and they contribute to the community, pay their taxes on their wage income every month. There is a predominantly very large majority, working and law-abiding citizens, which is a great gain for Denmark. Of course, for the minority of foreigners who do not fulfil their duties after having been granted permanent residence, this must have consequences. Of course, if they commit crime, they must be punished. In case of more serious crime, they can also be expelled from Denmark. In addition, if they have committed crime or received public benefits, it can also have consequences for their ability to reunite their spouses. So there are, of course, already significant consequences in the rules for permanent residents who either commit serious crime or receive public services for a longer period of time. Although I actually share the intention and motivation behind the proposal, we see today that the legislation embraces the precise balance sheets that must be between making strict demands on who can obtain permanent residence in Denmark, but that on the other hand, of course, there must also be an opportunity for all those who can and will and who contribute to the community. So, on the basis of these considerations, we cannot immediately support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170241	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170244	First of all, congratulations to the rapporteur on the rapporteur's work. I look forward to the good cooperation. It is, of course, a rapporteur who never gets bored. Just during this period of government with the Social Democratic Party we have had negotiations on citizenship with the Social Democratic Party and they were really productive. Now we are looking at the family reunification rules, which may well be a little less bureaucratic. But here is an area, especially for young people. There is a permanent residence scheme for residents of 18-19 years of age, largely without any demands being made, and there we see some very, very violent crime statistics. Now the rapporteurs are new in this area, so I would actually just like to make a call to the rapporteur and to the Minister that we should look at these permanent residence rules. For there are a few small groups, fortunately, but groups that commit very, very violent crimes. And that is where we think we have to do something. So if it is the case that the rapporteur actually agrees that there is a problem, can the rapporteur himself make some suggestion as to what we can do for those groups that actually commit crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170350	Thank you, and thank you for welcoming us to the area. I look forward to working with the questioner and the other rapporteurs. Well that's right, there are small pockets of groups where crime is too high and where there also seems to be a very long way to support yourself and provide for your own life. That's where we're gonna start. That is also why we already have quite strict rules in the legal system if you commit crime, but it is also true that you can be expelled from Denmark. So I am not at all opposed to it if there are things in the legislation that we have to look at, but I think that making a permanent stay, which is what this proposal is about, is, in fact, conditional for 10 years by which the permanent residence permit is postponed for 10 years, is going too far, and that will affect all those who are really doing their duty and who contribute to the community and do not commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170447	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170448	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur can see some sense in perhaps looking at some of the rules at least. The rapporteur is perhaps aware of the Politiken articles which have been about the American Benjamin, who had a great deal of difficulty in getting a permanent stay because it is preoccupied at the other end. So my call is just again that at some point, hopefully before long, we will have a look at the rules. Because there are actually some areas where I think it should be less bureaucratic, compared to people who come here to work, while perhaps we could turn a little on the rules of crime at the other end and tighten up a little there. So it is just a call to the rapporteur from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170521	Well, it's definitely noted. I think that this will always be the balance we have to deal with in this area, because every time we tighten the rules we have done that together a lot of times, by both 2016 and 2017 about permanent stays we risk constantly that there are some that we do not really want to be affected by the rules, but are affected by it. That is why the Aliens Act is also such a conspiracy of a great deal that is built on top of each other, and we must always decide whether we find the right balances and that it is not the wrong ones that are squeezed by the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170554	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170603	Thank you for the floor. The Conservative People's Party proposes with this resolution to make permanent residence conditions conditional for 10 years after the award. The Conservatives therefore propose that a foreigner may lose his or her permanent residence for the first 10 years if he or she commits serious crime or receives cash benefits for more than 12 months. We share in the Left The Conservative People's Party's wish that there should be fewer criminal foreigners staying in Denmark and more foreigners who, in turn, will become part of the Danish community. However, we in the Left believe that we have very strict requirements for permanent residence. We have been involved in negotiating them ourselves with Mr. Marcus Knuth. We have even tightened the requirements several times, so those who we do not want to be able to obtain a permanent residence permit cannot have it. Those who are now permanently resident are very much integrated into Danish society. Therefore, we do not think it is appropriate to increase the uncertainty about foreigners' stay in Denmark by making the permanent residence basis conditional for 10 years after the award. With regard to the specific problem of foreigners staying in Denmark committing serious crime, I believe that we should instead look at the rules on expulsion. We have strict rules for the expulsion of criminal foreigners, but these rules can continue to be implemented much better and, instead, to start looking at the temporal discounts on crimes leading to expulsion sentences given to foreigners in Denmark. We dealt with this in the Chamber with another resolution tabled by the Conservative People's Party two weeks ago, and I think that is a much more dangerous clue to follow. We in the Left cannot support the resolution, but we share the Conservative People's Party's wish that Denmark should not be the home of criminal foreigners, and we therefore hope that we may be able to make a text focusing on the group we are dealing with here, so that we can have tighter rules on the expulsion of criminal foreigners. In this context, I can inform you that we do not intend to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170809	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170812	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. I had hoped that the rapporteur would be a little more accommodating in relation to some kind of conditional period when, if you commit crime at the beginning, after you have been permanently resident, it would be like a yellow card where you could lose it. It is not the same as being expelled; if you are here as a refugee, you can continue your refugee stay or whatever stay you had before you got the permanent one. So I hope that the Left will not reject it completely if we have to make a report. I hope we can make a report where we can get to know each other a little bit. But if the only thing the rapporteur wants to look at is the rules on expulsion, then we will already tighten them as much as we can hopefully do with the proposal we had in the Chamber recently, which removes the so-called stairwell model. The Ministry will table a bill in the next session. But it could be some kind of yellow card, and then you could do it in different ways. I hope the Left will take a look at this when we have to make a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170911	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511170912	As I said, we would very much like to look at bringing together the rules of expulsion. I think there's a lot to get there. We are not interested in making policies where you tighten up compared to a large group where only some of them do something that is wrong. And we do not have the view of crime, which one apparently has in the Conservative People's Party, that if you have person A and person B and know that 50%. Of these, just to say a number will commit something criminal at some point, we'd better punish the whole group in advance. Then you hit a lot of innocent people, and we should not go that way when we have to make sure that young people integrate better into Danish society. We do not believe that is the right way forward. But let us finally look at the fact that once you have stepped next to it, the hammer falls, and then it gets a consequence that is unmistakable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171005-2	I would say that we are not punishing anyone by saying that we are making it conditional on the fact that we do not commit serious crime. It is therefore only those who commit serious crime who will be affected by it and then lose it. All those who are law-abiding don't want to lose it. And you still want to get away with the rights you have, like someone who has a permanent residence. I certainly hope, and I think we have talked about this in the past, that the Left will support the fact that we need a dialogue with the Minister, because some rules, at least for business people who come here, are overwhelmed when they are going to have a permanent stay, and then there are some criminals that we need to hit a little harder. So I hope that the Left will support the fact that we certainly need a service review of the rules with each of our approaches.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171045-2	Well, the bill will include everyone who wants to be subject to it, so the penalty you build in with this proposal hits the whole group. We cannot get out of that, and that is why there is something in the very philosophy of the law that is wrong here. So let us now look at making rules for those who have stepped next door and have effect that fewer foreigners commit crime in Denmark and when they do so, the hammer falls much harder.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171119	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist from SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171127	It is easier to get a camel through a needle's eye than to get a permanent residence permit in Denmark. That is how a Danish saying could sound. With the proposal we are discussing today, the authors of the motion for a resolution wish, I do not know which Wednesday in a row, to tighten up Danish immigration policy. And whether it is necessary to tighten up the immigration policy will thus become the theme that again separates the waters in the Chamber today. This isn't about SF thinking that you shouldn't make demands on foreigners and shouldn't make strict demands on people who want to stay permanently in Denmark. The proposal is about whether a permanent residence permit can be issued to someone and then possibly withdraw it again. A permanent residence permit is by no means something that you as a foreigner are just given in Denmark. On the contrary, it is something one only gets when one has trampled through the maze of tests, demands and self-reliance rules of the alien system. Most of the demands are reasonable enough, but the point is that it is not just something you pull in a vending machine. You have to be in employment, you have to support yourself, the criminal record has to be clean, you have to have chosen the Danish community for, you have to speak Danish language, you have to acquire Danish culture and integrate yourself and even it over a long period of time. We must never, of course, close our eyes to problems of integration, and yes, there are problems that need to be resolved. However, we do not solve those problems by continuing to undermine the rights that we continue to grant to people who have made a great deal of effort. We are open to looking at wider possibilities of expulsion from serious crime, just as we have been before. I think we can discuss this separately from this proposal. And such a proposal must, of course, be in line with the international commitments we have. But with these words, the SF cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171335	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171338	I agree with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist in that in some areas the rules are pretzelized. Well, unfortunately, we have some cases like this businessman I have mentioned several times, who lives up to everything you can dream of, who comes to Denmark and takes Denmark to Denmark, but unfortunately we also have a problem with some groups, fortunately some small groups, among others. from Somalia, Iraq and Turkey, up to 38%. of those who received permanent residence from 2010-2015, subsequently commit crime. And it is almost four out of ten men from Somalia who, during that period, had a permanent stay of four out of ten. Does the rapporteur think this is acceptable? And if that is not acceptable, what will the rapporteur do about it, apart from leaving the legislation as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171426	Well, I really think that the rapporteur of the Left was quite precise in relation to this, so you want to grant a conditional penalty to everyone who gets a permanent stay because of some who step aside, or do you not? And the second question that can then be put to the authors is: why only 10 years, why not 20, 25, 50 or 100 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171446	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171447	Well, with all due respect, it's not a punishment to say that if that's how you commit crime, you lose your stay. Come on, this isn't a punishment. And compared to saying 10, 20, 30 years: there are already rules that say that if you break the law, there is a consequence. Well, it's a community of law we live in. So everything else, I find it hard to see that it should be so paradoxical to say: if that is how you commit serious crime, you will be deported, and if you commit other forms of serious crime, you will lose your permanent residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171520-2	Well, I kind of think there was a really sensible answer from the Left to that question... so this is about if you have A and B and you know that 50 percent. If you commit crime, should you give a conditional sentence to both? No, we don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171533	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171550	Thank you. B 175 is, after all, a proposal to make permanent residence conditional for 10 years after the award. This must be done, the proposers propose, by making permanent residence conditional on the absence of serious crime or on the receipt of cash benefits for more than 12 months. The proposal is a good one, and hopefully the proposal will help to meet many of the challenges that we in Denmark face with immigrants, especially from the METAPT countries, who are hopelessly over-represented in crime statistics. In addition, in Denmark we also have a problem with many non-western immigrants being on long-term public support. The proposal will, in all probability, both act as a means of preventing crime and give immigrants an incentive to get to work. It should be quite obvious that criminal foreigners and foreigners on long-term public support should not have permanent residence. In the Danish People's Party we would like the proposal to go further, because as the proposers point out, this does not mean that you will be expelled from Denmark if the permanent residence permit is withdrawn. There is therefore still an opportunity to stay in Denmark on the existing or other basis of residence. The solution seems to me to be evident: to expel foreigners who commit serious crime in Denmark. That is why I am also surprised that it is not a matter of course for the government that you must leave the country if you as a guest do not behave properly. That is common sense, we think, and the expulsion of criminal foreigners should actually be just something that was put into effect. All in all, we can vote in favour of the Conservative People's Party's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171733	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511171746	Thank you, sir. President. - Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much. Søren Espersen and Dansk Folkeparti to support the proposal here. I actually think, and now it gets a little square, that when it's the case that the Danish People's Party thinks the proposal is good, but that it doesn't go far enough, it might be where it's not quite wrong. For Mr. Søren Espersen is right, of course, that this proposal, which makes it conditional on losing one's permanent residence, if it is the case that one commits crime, is not being expelled. I understand the wish of the Danish People's Party, but this is probably some kind of yellow card. You lose your permanent stay, and then you go back on what you had before. It could be refugee status or a work permit or study or whatever it is. That is precisely why we really think it is a proposal that is not too hard or too controversial. So yes, the Danish People's Party actually had exactly the reaction I expected: that it was a good proposal, but that it was not hard enough. That's exactly why the government should think that well, that's really good. It should speak a clear language, precisely because the figures in this proposal speak their clear language. Almost 40%. of men from Somalia who had a permanent stay in the period 2010-2015 four out of ten have subsequently committed crime, and we have to do something about that. I am sorry that the Left does not support this, despite the fact that you can see the problem, and I think that people in here sometimes talk a little in circles. Well, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær says that we must make higher demands and that it also has a consequence of spouse reunification etc. and so on, but by making permanent residence conditional on the absence of crime, I think that, especially for these groups, for whom permanent residence and citizenship mean so much, it will actually have a quite preventive effect. All other things being equal, I hope that these debates will send out a clear signal that we need to sit down and look at the rules of permanent residence. I have mentioned the case several times with Benjamin, the American, who is a top businessman, has learned Danish and has a Danish girlfriend, but he cannot get a permanent stay, while at the same time we distribute permanent stays to young residents 18-year-olds largely without making demands, and subsequently they commit serious crime. So I hope that the Minister will think about whether we should not sit down and do a service check, not open up the big debate, but do a service check, just as we do with the rules of family reunification, and, to a wider extent, we did with the rules of citizenship. That will be my request to the Minister. I hope that we will be able to produce a report in which we will at least be able to come up with something like this, and if that is quite impossible, then we will have to take it to a vote. However, I hope that we will be able to draw up a report in which a majority of parties at least decide to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172058	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172110	The debate is open. We give the floor first to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172126	Thank you for that and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for another B proposal. The aim is to strengthen the Karen rules and the requirement of good repute for persons applying for permanent residence permits, including: by introducing a four-year waiting period by any sentence for violation of the criminal code, for violation of special laws imposing a higher penalty, by extending the period of imprisonment to 10 years by a conditional sentence of liberty and by tightening it up, so that unconditional sentences of liberty exclude foreigners from being able to obtain permanent residence permits. In the light of the proposal for a regulation, the authors of the proposal refer to the fact that they consider the Karen rules to be too lenient today. The rules in force mean that foreigners who are sentenced to liberty are either completely excluded from being able to obtain permanent residence permits or are excluded from doing so for a longer period of time. Foreigners who are sentenced to an unconditional liberty sentence of at least 6 months in prison will be completely excluded from obtaining permanent residence permits. This applies regardless of the type of crime involved. Certain forms of crime, including, for example, sexual crimes and violence, involve exclusion by an unconditional sentence of liberty of at least 60 days in prison, so the limit is even lower. In addition to these rules, a sentence of liberty, conditional or unconditional, will result in a waiting period of between 6 and 15 years. In the case of penalties for illegal work, including fines, the period of care is up to 221⁄2 years. It comes, among other things. In the case of an alien who is entitled to a residence permit at the time of the illegal work, he is entitled to a residence permit. It is therefore the case that, in general terms, a fine does not have any impact on the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits, while a sentence of liberty will always have consequences. Of course, there is a good reason for this. Of course, offences must have consequences, and so must they. It can, for example, be done. be that you should serve a sentence of liberty. It may also be that you have to pay a fine. The gravity of the offence and the nature of the penalty have a bearing on whether or not a permanent residence permit can be obtained and when. Of course, it is also a question of proportionality. I do not believe that foreigners who have been legally resident in Denmark for at least 8 years and who meet the many and strict requirements for obtaining permanent residence permits, including the employment requirement and the Danish requirement, should be permanently excluded from obtaining residence permits for 4 years if they are fined. A sentence of liberty will always have consequences for the possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit. I think that we have found a fair balance in relation to striking down on the one hand those who cannot find out, and on the other hand those who contribute positively to the Community. That is why I do not agree that the rules today are too lenient. I think there is a reasonable balance and, as a starting point, we reject the motion for a resolution, but of course we are constructively involved in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172435	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172438	Thank you. After all, the minister mentions the word balance, and that is actually what I am a little after here. Because if you look at the rules of citizenship, there is a zero tolerance in relation to fines for drugs, so if you get a fine for drugs, there is an immediate Karens on, I think it is 41⁄2 years, and that there is also a fine of over 3,000 kroner. In relation to the penal code is a karen's. But when it comes to the permanent stay, you have to go all the way up to a term of imprisonment conditional or unconditional before there start to be waiting periods. There's what I don't think it's okay that you could have gotten literally 100 fines for drugs, vandalism, everything, and that it's zero as in zero importance for your application for permanent residence. So it is fine if the minister thinks this is strict, but can we not try to meet somewhere in the middle so that there is at least some kind of consequence if you get a lot of fines for serious vandalism and drugs? Can't the Minister see a rationale in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172533	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172534	Yeah, I can see a rational in that. I also think it is important that, in relation to many of the slightly strange cases which also arise, we have now been mentioned with an American citizen who has ended up in a difficult situation, we could also imagine others who are large assets for their local communities and who may have been fined and therefore excluded; it can happen to the best of us that you get some types of fines by doing these things if not end up in a situation where we are creating the type of problems that the rapporteur has just raised in a different context. So, as long as we remember, I am also involved in discussing whether there are some things we can do better and better. I think that is an opportunity, and I think we should try to discuss what we can find out. However, I just object to the general view that the balance should be completely unbalanced in relation to how to obtain a residence permit in Denmark. I do not think it is and we must be careful that we do not create situations similar to what has been said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172650	Now we are different parties with different views, and I would almost bet that the Danish People's Party will take the floor in a moment and say that it is a good proposal, but that it should be a little stricter. And there I would like to try to go to the Minister and say that we can agree to something that is somewhere between what we are proposing here and doing nothing. But I think there's something wrong in saying that you have to go all the way to a prison sentence conditional or unconditional before you touch a waiting period. So it's just an invitation to the minister to take these figures with him, take these crime statistics, and then consider whether we should just tighten up the rules a little, so there's a consequence for those who get a lot of fines for serious vandalism and drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172728	Yes, I would very much like to take it with me, and I believe, as I said, that it must be difficult to get a permanent stay if you commit crime and that there must be a proportionality in what kind of crime it is. We can, for example. look at illegal work, and if you get a waiting period of 221⁄2 years, it is something. I'm having a hard time imagining where I'll be in 221⁄2 years. So there are some places where it is very tight, and it may also be that there should be several places, and it may also be that the residence rules for permanent stays in some places today may have been tightened a little too much, and I think we should try to look at that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172804	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments. So we start with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511172814	Thank you. With the resolution here, the Conservative People's Party is proposing to tighten up the rules for persons seeking permanent residence, so that sentences for serious crime result in a longer or permanent exclusion from permanent residence in Denmark. And we in the Social Democratic Party agree with the Conservative People's Party that foreigners who commit crime must also face very severe consequences, because in Denmark everyone must live up to the law and, as the comments on the resolution also point out, we have challenges with people from selected countries who commit too much crime. It is a massive challenge for Danish society, and it reduces security in certain areas of Denmark. However, I disagree with the authors of the motion for a resolution when they write in their comments on the motion for a resolution that today the Karen rules are far too lenient. After all, the Karen rules were significantly tightened in 2017, and we actually see that the current rules are sufficiently tight, and therefore do not see any current need to tighten them further. For example, a suspended sentence triggers a six-year waiting period, while a conditional sentence, which also imposes a sentence on community services, leads to a waiting period of 7 years and 6 months, gives you an unconditional sentence of less than 60 days, you have to wait 12 years before you can apply for a permanent residence permit, and if you have been given an unconditional prison term which leads to more than 6 months imprisonment, then you are completely excluded from being able to apply for a permanent stay in Denmark. So there are fairly tight and long waiting periods today, which is why we do not see the need here and now to change those rules. But of course we are also open to discussing if there are challenges or we have not found the right balance between, on the one hand, that all those who can and will have the opportunity to stay in Denmark, while those who do not want Denmark will not the Danish society, will not follow the law here, on the other hand, of course, should not have it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173019	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173021	This is also a very good way of welcoming the rapporteur back to the area. Well, there's a karen's if you get into a suspended sentence. But I now think there is something wrong with the fact that you can get literally 50 fines for vandalism. There are unfortunately some young people who repeatedly commit vandalism, shoplifting, get sentences for drugs and simply have a general magazine that really says save two and there is no consequence, but if they just get one conditional prison sentence, then the hammer goes down and then there comes a coach's. So it is really just a call to the rapporteur to try to think about whether it is not a consequence of serious fines, particularly for vandalism, for drugs or too many repeated fines. So it is actually more just a call, not least because the rapporteur is new in this area, and there are some imbalances here that I hope the Social Democrats will agree to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173113	I think I will lie safely in the slipstream of the Minister and say that it may well be that that part is something we need to look at further. I think that would be a fine discussion also to have in committee on the proposal. But it really is a question of finding the right balance between hitting down hard on those who do not want Denmark, but also creating space and opportunity for those who want to. That is why I will be sceptical about something in which we tightened the rules and if a single fine, which many can end up with for inscrutable reasons, would give a very long waiting period. There may well be something in discussing whether it should give rise if you have received high penalties repeatedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173202	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173214	With the resolution, the Conservative People's Party wishes to tighten up the current practice of permanent residence for a foreigner if the alien commits crime. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is thus to make criminal foreigners more difficult to obtain permanent residence in Denmark. It is a wish that we share in the Left. Therefore, the former VLAK government has also tightened the rules for permanent residence in Denmark on several occasions. For example, a foreigner who is now sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence for more than 6 months is completely excluded from obtaining permanent residence in Denmark. We in the Left are of the opinion that there is something slightly wrong in the balance of this proposal. The proportionality of the proposed Karen rules may not have exactly the balance we would have liked. That is why we are a little hesitant about this motion for a resolution. However, because we actually share the view of the Conservative People's Party on this matter, we want to be able to look at a report in which, together with the government and the Conservative People's Party, we look at how we can tighten the rules so that we can meet the spirit of the proposal. We would very much like to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173335	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173337	Thank you. As regards making a motion for a resolution, this is the first time both for the rapporteur himself and for me to be in opposition, and then you learn a little from the work you have here. And afterwards I actually thought that we might have been a little too precise in formulating our wish... it has to be exactly 4 years of carnage for any violation of the criminal code, etc.; because we want flexibility precisely in relation to other parties being able to support it. So I hope that we will be able to come up with a report in which we will at least come in the right direction. I think the rapporteur agrees with me that there is something wrong with the fact that you can get 100 fines for vandalism without it having any consequence, while one sentence for conditional prison triggers a waiting period. So I hope we can meet in the middle, so to speak, on this question, in relation to what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173424	Well, let's see. We will go to those negotiations with a desire that we can reach common ground on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173432	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the SF's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173439	I think I'm the little one on the team today, you can see in relation to the height of the platform. Our rapporteur, sir. Carl Valentin is ill, and that is why I have the exquisite pleasure of participating in this treatment of B 176. With the many millions of people fleeing the world, SF does not believe that criminal foreigners should be given priority for stay in Denmark. That is why SF has supported a number of proposals that make it easier to expel criminal foreigners, just as the SF has helped to secure legislation that extends the framework. Therefore, the SF is not necessarily automatically opposed to discussing the problems that lie there, but let us call them highly sceptical. This is, of course, because the rules are already really The Skepsis is also due to two parts of the proposal in particular. Our rapporteur has an e-mail box full of e-mails, like many of you who are rapporteurs in this area, certainly have, from people with applications and residence permits who are affected by the different waiting periods or where something blocks the possibility of obtaining citizenship etc. Sometimes there are very violent wrongdoings, and sometimes there are minor wrongdoings, which still tighten their legs. Or it could be things that lie light years back in time. So it's like we have a skepticism about this. Sir. Carl Valentin has met with a citizen, whom he describes as a good Danish best citizen, a workman who provides for his family, pays his taxes, votes at every election, speaks fluently Danish and is active in his son's football club, where he has provided for gaming shirt sponsorships. This man can't get citizenship because he's made a both immoral and cod-dumb decision more than 40 years ago, pushing a parking attendant. Of course, he was convicted of violence for that. It is entirely self-inflicted that he has had to pay for the act of punishment he was given, and he has also been given a long period of care. But is it fair to have to pay for such an act 40 years later? So we have a skepticism about the Karen period that goes on forever or at least for an extremely long time. This is the starting point for our approach to this resolution. We reject it as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173728	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173730	Now I'd have hoped that mr. Rasmus Nordqvist wanted to embrace this, for Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, that only those who have committed crime should be punished, and that is exactly what this is going to do. If, for example, you're gonna have to... We believe that there should be a waiting period for serious vandalism and a fine. So I'm sorry, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist doesn't see this way anyway. I would just like to point out in relation to the case mentioned by the rapporteur that if this person has received a prison sentence, conditional or unconditional, and we have just written that into our citizenship agreement, one can always contact a member of the committee and apply for an exemption. I myself am on the committee, and the committee is granting derogations to people on an ongoing basis, even though they have a prison sentence behind them. So the fact that you are permanently excluded is simply not true and we have specifically got it written on the website. It is just that the rapporteur does not draw up a picture of the rules on citizenship that are not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173827	I think it's shades of gray. But when we deal with this proposal as we do, it is because there are really strict rules in advance and they have, like, already been tightened in 2017. They are very tight and that is why we are going to this proposal with scepticism. I also hope that the rapporteur does not hear me directly being completely opposed to having a discussion, because that is not correct. In relation to the proposal as it stands here: should we look at it in relation to criminals? You can do that, but it will not be in the direction of the proposers' proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173901	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173902	That's quite fair. As I also said to the Left, we have formulated this very precisely, so all due respect that the SF cannot see itself in exactly what we are proposing. But I hope that the rapporteur can see that there is something wrong with the fact that if you get a conditional sentence, it gives a waiting period, and we think that is fine, but that you can get a lot of fines for drugs, vandalism and so on, without having any effect whatsoever. Can the rapporteur at least see that there is an imbalance there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173928-2	Then it is the question of where to move the balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173935	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur I can see is Mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511173942	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth has shown his ability as a fortune teller. He knows exactly what the Danish People's Party is now saying. What we are saying is that we think it is an excellent proposal by the Conservatives here, and we in the Danish People's Party can give immediate support. It is important that Denmark can avoid the diverse challenges that we face with criminal foreigners, especially from the so-called MENAPT countries, and in line with the increase in immigration, we have seen a nonessential increase in serious crime for a number of years. In addition, foreigners and persons with foreign backgrounds, as well described in the proposal, are so full of statistics. As the rules are today, it is not every crime that leads to a waiting period in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. Judgments below prison level therefore have no consequence when applying for permanent residence. As mentioned, the Danish People's Party agrees with the proposal to significantly change the rules, so any violation of the Criminal Code, the Arms Act and the law on drugs or other violations of special laws leads to a waiting period for permanent residence. However, the finest way to tackle the problem of criminal foreigners is to show zero tolerance to foreigners who come to the country and commit crime. We are concerned with taking account of the victims and are, in fact, a little less interested in protecting the criminals. In the Danish People's Party we therefore have a desire to expel foreigners who commit crime in Denmark. For us, it goes without saying that you must leave the country if you do not behave properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511174118	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511174135	Thank you, President. I think one can say that one has been sitting in the Danish Parliament for a long time when one can begin to predict what the Danish People's Party thinks of a proposal, so I am only proud of that, despite the fact that this proposal is not very controversial; it has actually been taken with direct inspiration from the rules on citizenship, where there are waiting periods for fines for drugs and breaches of criminal law, etc. And as I have said several times, it seems to me that it is wrong and out of balance that one gets a waiting period for a conditional prison sentence. It in itself seems that we are perfectly in order but that there is no consequence whatsoever in relation to repeated serious crime at the level of fines, vandalism, drugs, etc. We have made one proposal here. There is no support for this, but I would say that I am glad that both the Minister and several of the rapporteurs, the rapporteurs from S and V, can see that there is an imbalance here and that we should perhaps try to look at it in the future. I think that could also be a fine move from the new minister, when his predecessor looked at the rules of citizenship, the rules of family reunification and, to put it a little square, tightened one place, but where one might relax the other place so that one also looks at the rules here. I'd think that's right. So thank you to the rapporteurs and to the Minister. I hope we can land it here with a report where we saw afterwards, perhaps even before the summer holidays, if you dare hope so much, sit down with the minister and have a look at these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511174300	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511174315	The debate is open. And no one has asked for the floor. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511174406	The debate is open. And no one has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220511174432	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 12 May 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
