ParlaMint-DK_20220523090019	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing Mette Gjerskov (S), who is on leave, I have received notification that from 1 June 2022 she can again meet at the Tinget. Brian Bressendorffs (S) shall cease to be a member of the Folketing as from that date. Today there is the following review: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 203 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Pensions, Law on the highest, middle, higher general and general early retirement pensions, etc., Law on unemployment insurance, etc.) and the law on temporary residence permits for displaced persons from Ukraine. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written Energy and Supply Policy statement 2022. 19). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday, 2 June 2022. Today's debate will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523090130	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption is not postponed. We shall start with a statement of reasons, and that is the rapporteur for the questions put to us, Mr President. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523090230	Thank you, President. It is a good tradition in the Folketing that once a year we ask the Prime Minister what the Prime Minister can tell us about the domestic and foreign policy situation, and thus this year. And on behalf of the rapporteurs and the parties, I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523090245	Thank you. Well, then we need the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523090259	The world changed on February 24th. It is a war in Europe that we should see it again. That is why, in this final speech, I shall look outwards towards the fate of the world and the major decisions that it is facing Denmark. Putin's war is brutal, unjust and inhumane. We've seen it: Snowbombed cities, hospitals, schools and apartment blocks where people lived a life like you and me a short time ago. Now the houses are in ruins, and the families are runnin'. Mass graves with killed civilian • children, women and men • reports of assaults and rapes. This is reality right now on our continent. All over the world, free people have risen in protest, and we have done so in Denmark. Thanks to all of you Danes who have supported Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, all of you citizens, companies and organisations who have donated clothes, money and relief, helped families in safety, opened your homes to the displaced and have accepted them in the community. With your actions you each show what Denmark is and what we stand for. Who are we? A small country, a calm people who do not engage in great arm movements and expansive words. By the earth becoming, it serves us best. Whatever we want or not, that mentality is deep within us. But there is also another story about a country and a people who can so incredibly much • perhaps more than we ourselves think. Look how we've made it through the pandemic. We are one of the countries in the world that has had the lowest excess mortality rate and one of the countries that has come out of the crisis most economically. This is due to the efforts of every citizen in this country. By the collective force of our actions we have saved human life and we have protected our society. Just now, several countries around the world are struggling to keep the infection under control, and here too we must prepare ourselves for the situation to change again in the autumn. Therefore, before summer, the government will present a strategy for continued corona management, and it will of course have to be discussed with the Danish Parliament's parties. But here and now we are looking forward to a summer in Denmark with parties • like many of them • concerts, art and culture and revisit with old friends. I can't believe we're having a summer that starts again with Roskilde Festival and with Tour de France on Danish soil. We can thank each other for all that. Our community is strong. We need that certainty and faith in ourselves and each other now. We are in a new reality in foreign and security policy. The war in Ukraine, an aggressive Russia, increasing tension in South-East Asia, a China that armies militarily and which, moreover, is heading towards overtaking the United States as the world's largest economy; new security threats, cyber attacks and attacks on the democratic conversation; and a demography that is changing. Over the next ten years, Africa's population will grow by one fifth. This will increase pressure on Africa's land and will increase pressure on Europe's borders at a time when the asylum system has already failed. On top of all this comes the climate crisis, which has already changed and affects the living conditions of millions of people. The world's records move economically, militaryly and demographically. And we cannot take our own values for granted. On the contrary, we must continue to fight for them: democracy, human rights, respect for the sovereign state's right to decide for itself, in fact, everything on which we have built our free society and which, moreover, is protected against the authoritarian forces being the ones who are gaining ground. The war in Ukraine clearly shows that right now we are in a fight between those who want democracy and those who do not want it; those who support the rule-based international community, with respect for the freedom and sovereignty of smaller states as well, and those who do not play by the rules of the game. Brave and forward-looking politicians before us have engaged Denmark in the free world communities of the United Nations, NATO and then in the European Union. These very institutions have ensured peace and prosperity for Europe and the West. The strength of those communities we see now, and Europe and the United States are more united than ever before. When freedom knocks on the door of Europe, neutrality does not exist. Putin thought he could split us up. He couldn't. The West must remain united. Now is the time to show who we are and what we are. Ukraine must win the war. Denmark has a proud and by the way long tradition of engaging in the world around us. The civil war raged in the Balkans in the 1990s, we sent soldiers, tanks and planes to protect the civilian population. For many years, Danish fighters have contributed to NATO's common air defence, and recently a Danish battle battalion was deployed to Latvia, so there are now 1,000 Danish soldiers in the Baltic countries. It is the largest Danish military contribution in recent times. In recent months, I myself have had the opportunity to visit many of the courageous men and women who solve the tasks on our behalf, both at home and abroad. We have some amazing soldiers. Thank you very much for your invaluable efforts for Denmark and for peace. With Dannebrog on your shoulder, you are committed, professional and have the ability to solve even very difficult tasks and to work together, even when things are going on. That is what we are known for in the world, and that is what makes us a sought-after partner in many places. Denmark is a country that the others can count on, and we are now also promising that legacy. Denmark is sending weapons and military equipment to Ukraine and humanitarian aid to the victims of the war. We have promised the Ukrainians that we will also help rebuild their country, and indeed we have already started: The first Danish excavators are in the middle of the crisis we help Ukraine build the future. I am deeply grateful for the leadership of the parties behind the national compromise. Thank you very much, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen from the Left, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservative People's Party. You were ready, and we quickly agreed that when the world changes, Denmark will not stand still. For a while, we put our differences aside and stood together for a historic agreement on Danish defence and security. Thank you for that courage and also thank you for the willingness to take responsibility. And by the way, thank you to the parties that have subsequently supported. On 1 June, we will have to decide whether we want to abolish the defence reserve and participate in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. For me, the vote is primarily about which country we want to be. Will we fight for the values and for the communities that have made Denmark a free, secure and rich society, or will we leave responsibility to others? Today, Denmark is the only country in the European Union that has a defence reserve. All other countries are involved in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. Sweden and Finland, which are now also seeking membership of NATO. This means that we do not even have the opportunity to contribute in defence. Even when we want it, and when it will be in Denmark's interest. I don't think we're served with that. That is why I am voting 'yes' on 1 June, and I am voting 'yes' with my heart. There is again a wall through our continent: between democracy and freedom on the one hand and oppression and darkness on the other. I believe and am afraid that more conflicts will arise; conflicts which will threaten Denmark either directly or indirectly. We must be able to defend ourselves better and more strongly. That's why we need to stand stronger with our allies. We need to be in the right place. Stronger European cooperation in the field of security and defence will also benefit NATO. That is what NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said just last week here in Copenhagen. Transatlantic cooperation will remain the cornerstone of Denmark's security, but we will strengthen the European Union, we will also strengthen NATO. There are, of course, a number of issues that go back when we discuss the defence reserve. Is this the first step to abolish all reservations? Will there be an EU army? And will it in future be politicians sitting in Brussels who can decide to send Danish soldiers? I would like to add a few more words to this three point. Firstly, the vote on 1 June is all about the defence reserve, that is, our cooperation on defence and security. There is no EU army. We have our own national defences, just as Sweden and Germany have. With our national defences, we can choose to cooperate with the other countries. We can do that today under NATO. If we say yes to cooperation in Europe, we will also be able to do so under the auspices of the European Union, thereby allowing Danish defence to form part of cooperation with other EU countries, such as the Balkans, where a possible new conflict can arise. But it will continue to be us here in Denmark who are sovereign to decide whether Danish soldiers should be deployed or not. There is not an EU army and there will not be an EU army. And when it is we who are sovereign, in other words here in the Folketing, to make that decision, it is because sending out a soldier, man or woman is the hardest decision we can make in this Parliament Hall at all. It must and must be a decision that is made here. So for me there is no doubt: it will benefit Denmark with a yes, it will give us more opportunities, it will strengthen our security, and it will strengthen our security if we say yes on 1 June. When the world changes, and this time to something that is worse and more uncertain, Denmark should not remain standing. That is why I wholeheartedly recommend a yes on 1 June. Also in the Kingdom Community we feel the new security policy reality: increased military presence and increasing attention to the Arctic. In the eyes of the government, it calls for even closer cooperation between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. We agree to condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we agree on the need to stand with our allies in the West, and a year ago we decided to strengthen our cooperation in both foreign, security and defence matters, especially of course in those areas that are of particular relevance to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. We have started this work, and in my view it is a natural development of a strong, modern and equal kingdom. It is also clear that security is about energy. We must make ourselves independent of Putin's gas as soon as possible in Denmark and in Europe. Russian gas, oil and coal must be phased out and, of course, replaced with renewable green energy. Denmark is among the countries in the world that have come the furthest with the green transition, so we stand well. But the pace really needs to be speeded up. It must be set up with a massive expansion of renewable energy: more sea wind, more land wind, more sun, more energy efficiency and, not least, district heating, so that we can make the heating bills less in the Danish homes. I dare say that Esbjerg the other day was really on the world map. Denmark has joined Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium in an ambitious plan for the North Sea. With the Esbjerg Declaration, we will quadruple our wind capacity at sea by 2030 and we will increase it tenfold by 2050. It will be able to cover the current electricity consumption of 230 million European households. That is what we are talking about. And when we're done with this, it's going to be like "and hold on to at least half of all the ocean wind that the whole of the European Union needs to make sure that we're completely neutral, that is, in terms of climate, up to 2050. In other words, Esbjerg will be the gateway to what we want to ensure will be Europe's new, large green power plant, the North Sea. This is going to create thousands of good Danish green jobs, and with this we again show in this small country that it is possible to combine high climate ambitions with welfare, jobs and economic growth. When we can do that, not least because of the course we set together almost three years ago, when the Folketing gained a new political majority and Denmark a new government. With the understanding paper, we agreed on the most ambitious climate target in the world: 70% reduction. in 2030. How far have we reached in the three years? not only a third, not only halfway. With the agreements we have concluded and the proposals we have put forward, most recently with a necessary proposal for a green tax reform with a high and more uniform tax CO2 Thank you to all the parties in this Chamber who have helped to make it possible there are many of them! Nevertheless, a special thanks to three parties: the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. Thank you for your stubbornness. Your insistence that we should strive more than we thought possible. It is very much to your credit that we have come this far. Not only you three party leaders, but also you others, not least the rapporteurs who every day ensure the results that are necessary, both for Denmark and our globe. Thank you. When we are where we are today, we show in Denmark that green conversion is no longer a choice. We need jobs, prosperity, welfare and sustainability. We are not guided by fear, but by the ambition of a greener, safer and freer future for our children and for our grandchildren. The war in Ukraine also now has significant economic consequences. We are currently experiencing the biggest price increases in almost 40 years: 1 l milk DKK 12. A pack of beef, 50 bucks. Butter 25 kroner. And the gasoline I was in Jutland this weekend will soon hit 17 kroner. Inflation is a ghost that goes through our economy. It challenges many Danish families, and it will also challenge us politically. Tax reliefs, someone says, and I understand that. I would also like to give tax concessions so that Danish employees could get more money between their hands. Nevertheless, it is not quite that simple, because if we are to do it in a way that does not just make inflation worse, then the tax cuts must be financed. And that's not the change we're talking about. If we had to offset the costs that the Danes have this year, just this year, as a result of inflation, for example. With tax cuts, it will cost society over 35 billion. kr. That is more than the total cost of su. It is the wage costs of 1 in 10 public employees. It is more than what it costs to run all Danish nursing homes. That's why we've been saying over and over again that we can't keep everyone safe. Because unless you're prepared to make massive cuts in our welfare and this government isn't going to be able to compensate all of you for one. It's not like we can't do anything at all. We have already agreed to help more than 400 000 households that are particularly affected by rising energy prices. And the government has proposed a lump sum of DKK 5,000. to the pensioners who have the least. The pensioners are you out there who only have a folk pension and maybe a small savings fund and who have no opportunity to get back to work and which I know by no means lives in rushes and dus. I know you guys. I know that the purchase is often planned after you have looked through the offer paper. The price increases are not about dropping a vacation, for some of you are already unable to afford it today. Now it is simply a matter of making everyday life work together. I also know that 5,000 kroner. tax-free means something. It is a proposal that has received broad support here in the Folketing. This is a proposal that, in our view, is targeted and which is temporary and therefore also responsible. We have proposed that the money should be found by downgrading public capital investment this year and next year. Compared with other countries that have adopted much more comprehensive aid packages with a different economic starting point, we in Denmark have actually chosen to be reluctant because we are afraid of aggravating inflation. We have to hold on to that. But we also need to deal with this crisis in a way that is both responsible and fair, where we continue to pursue a responsible economic policy, but at the same time we are able to help those who are most affected. I hope that Parliament will support this. And we know it can be done. During the corona we held hands during Danish economics. We provided wage compensation to workers who were repatriated, assistance to companies that were affected by decommissioning, and many different support schemes for those sectors that were most at risk. When we could do that, it was because, as today, we are on the basis of a solid and sustainable Danish economy, created through decades of reforms. In other words, we had something to resist when the crisis hit. I still think there were many who thought along the way: can we afford this? And at one point I warned myself that there was speed blindness in economic policy so that we did not start to finance permanent expenses with borrowed money. But we didn't. These were temporary relief packages which subsequently fell away. The expansive economic policy in which we promote demand, stimulates the economy to get people into work, is such a classic social democratic crisis policy. But this crisis is different. Because the economy is already full-blown. Unemployment is low and capacity is under pressure. That's why the cure has to be someone else too. Although some economists expect inflation to fall to a lower level next year, we basically do not know how long this is going to last. That is why I would like to warn you today that we are becoming too dogmatic in economic policy. As a Social Democrat and Prime Minister, I am concerned that, in this crisis too, we find the right balance. What we do must be responsible always. But it must also be fair. That is why we must first of all be pragmatic. That's exactly what the corona management is showing us. At the time, for example, there was. It also called into question whether economic policy was too active, too expansive. There was a lot of criticism, including in this Chamber, that we were taking too much debt. But already this year our debt in Denmark is expected to be lower than before the pandemic • lower than before the pandemic! We are one of the only countries in Europe that had a surplus on public finances in 2021. In fact, Denmark's profits last year were the highest in the EU. In many ways, economic results speak for themselves. At first, we thought and we were actually glad that we had the highest growth rate in 15 years. We thought that it was actually very well done. It should turn out that we have the highest growth rate in 27 years. Not since former Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen stood on this platform and opened the Danish Parliament in 1994, Denmark has had a higher growth than the one we had last year. And I could go on. We have the lowest unemployment rate for 13 years. And there have never been more people working in Denmark than at the moment, and I repeat there have never been more. All these good ratios, and here it gets weird, 'cause we're not gonna feel them in everyday life. Well, we feel that most people we know are at work. And that's the most important thing. That will always be the most important thing. But more and more people will see a pretty big difference between all the numbers on the paper looking good and what you see when you shop or when you have to pay the heating bill. Many Danes will experience a more pressured private economy, and many will of course be concerned. And it can be a hard time for many Danes. We therefore believe that the most important task is to keep unemployment as low as we possibly can, so that people continue to have a job and continue to combine justice and responsibility. So, in other words, we have a healthy and strong economy. This is primarily due to the enthusiasm shown by many people in this society; that, as is popularly described, one gets up and lubricates one's lunches and maybe sometimes goes to work. This is also due to an incredibly skilled, entrepreneurial and innovative Danish business community. You are quite talented both at operating and at making money for yourselves and for our society, but you are also very important at taking responsibility that is greater than what you can see on the bottom line. Finally, I believe that we can also collectively raise our backs here in the Folketing. Because despite the differences that may be filled in today's debate and even more, the closer we come to a choice, the truth is that we are good at working together and that there is a very broad majority behind the vast majority of the policy adopted in this Chamber over the last three years. We found the balances, and we must continue to do so, so that here and now we are pursuing a policy which does not exacerbate inflation, but which at the same time helps those who have the least and, I hope, subsequently also takes joint responsibility for new reforms. In August, the government will present a 2030 plan. It will form the framework for Denmark's overall economic policy. It's gonna be tight. There will not be a lot of new money to do well in our welfare societies, unfortunately. But we can ensure that the money goes with when more children arrive and when more older people arrive, so that the individual kindergarten and the individual care centre do not have to start every year by cutting back on what is most important. And when, at the same time, we have created room for lasting investment in our defence and security, so that we can live up to the promise we have made to our allies in NATO, then there will be historically little money left for new initiatives. However, the 2030 plan must and will show how we can create a new green space to invest in our climate and environment. Overall, it will be a 2030 plan that shows that we need tough priorities in the years to come. We would like to continue to take on board the bureaucracy of the public sector so that we free time and prosperity for the individual citizen. But also in the coming years, new initiatives will require us to finance them here in the Folketing either by savings elsewhere or through new reforms. And we will propose the latter. We're on it, but we have to move on. With Denmark we can increase labour supply by 12,000 people, GDP by 17.5 billion. kr. in 2030, and at the same time we invest significantly in education. With Denmark we can set the way to free ourselves from Putin's gas and speed up the green transition. Now we've started preparing Denmark can more III. It is my ambition that we should continue our course with a comprehensive release of public sector employees, so that the money and, above all, the time spent today in our welfare society is spent wiser. One of the areas in our welfare societies where we need to tackle is health. The Danish health service is far better than its reputation. We have free and equal access to treatment, highly specialized hospitals and skilled staff who have performed power during the pandemic. We can be proud of that. But even before corona it became clear that there are some more fundamental problems in our healthcare system. Because it is not reasonable for people to wait for treatment and walk around with pain or discomfort that could have been avoided if they had arrived at the right time. It is not fair to patients who must be on the corridors today because there are not enough hospital rooms, nor is it fair to those who are too busy when colleagues are missing. In many places, there is too much pressure, and both patients and employees suffer. For years now, we have been talking about improving our health care. Very much has succeeded. We have become better at treating cancer, and fewer Danes today die from a cardiovascular disease. But notice what we often talk about when we talk about the health care system: crowns and ears, response times, treatment bumps, rights, guarantees, systems and structures. Don't we forget a little bit to talk about what's most important? You as a patient; you as an employee; all of us who are relatives; unfortunately; all of the thousands of fates that get in and out of each other every day in the hospital halls and in the waiting rooms. Sickness and calamity can affect all of us; ourselves or almost even worse: one of those we care about. I think that most people can recall the feeling: the waiting time is the worst, the waiting time for the next examination, for a result or for the next response from the doctor, the fragility; the uncertainty; the uncertainty. It is when we are most vulnerable that we really need a strong welfare society. Then we need enough time for security and care; time for employees to do what they are trained to do: treat, care and help us. That care and presence cannot be made more effective. Even bigger and new solutions are needed. Since the government came into office almost 3 years ago, together with a number of parties here in the Danish Parliament, we have agreed on the biggest increase in the welfare society for 10 years. But it is not everywhere you can feel it, even if we have set aside money for 1,000 more nurses, for a strengthened psychiatry and for better conditions for the birthers. So money in itself can't do it. Last Friday, we made a very broad agreement on a health reform... thank you for that to the Danish Parliament. With that agreement, we have chosen to strengthen the close health care system. This is what we, as Social Democrats, promised before the elections: up to 25 new near hospitals, a strengthened emergency response, more coherent treatment courses and more health provision must be closer to the citizens in the municipalities. That's really good. We have also agreed to allow nurses and midwives to carry out certain tasks independently, which today require what is called a doctor's delegation. In other words, a nurse should no longer have a doctor's permission to take a blood sample from a patient. In the future, a midwife must be able to help a child in pain with a local anesthetic injection on her own. And the home nurse who visits a citizen at home must be able to vaccinate or provide fluid supplements without first having to call the doctor. Some will surely think: Is this not already the case? It's not. It may sound like technique, but it is common sense, and it will be of great importance to patients. Because it should not be the case that an elderly citizen with pneumonia should be admitted over and over again when we could actually have prevented it. The follow-up treatment needs to be strengthened. In other words, we need to make more sense and let employees use their skills. These are good steps in the right direction, but they will not solve all the problems either, because there will be a marked increase in the number of older people in the coming years. That's nice. More Danes live longer and medical science improves. But we will also find that more and more Danes have a chronic disease, and already we lack employees. Today almost every second nurse is employed part-time, and the same goes for, hold on, eight out of ten sosus in the municipalities. 8% of all nurses leave their profession within 10 years. That's about 1,000 nurses every five years. So the big question is: How do we create the best framework for the best working environment for the employees who each day solve vital tasks? How do we get more young people to choose exactly these courses and not some others? And above all, how do we ensure that all Danes who are in contact with health care every day get the care and security that is needed? We have not found those answers yet, and we must find them together. There aren't any snapshot solutions. We know that. Therefore, it is our proposal that we invite patients, employees, relatives and politicians to join us in this work. We need to look at how we can build a healthcare system with more trust and cooperation across; more time for employees to do what is most important. And then we have to take the next important steps in psychiatry. We live in a time when too many people have evil in their minds. Prevention must be better, but treatment must be timely, especially for those who are most in need. A new 10-year plan for psychiatry is needed. At the same time, I also hope that we can have a talk with each other about how we support resilience and communities, so that the distrust from the start does not get hold of as many children and young people as it is today. We also know that wage developments throughout the public sector must be looked into. This is the pay structure committee in full swing with it. I am not the first Prime Minister to talk about health care and welfare, and hardly the last one. Now we have taken some important steps, but we are not finished at all yet. A stronger Denmark, a greener future, a freer world. That's what we're working for. As President Zelenskyi of Ukraine said when he spoke to us Danes on 4 May: The dream of peace will come true. And our answer is that Putin can't win. It is the history of Europe that is at stake. It is the future of our continent that is at stake. A Denmark that takes responsibility and promises more than is expected, that is what we can do, that is what we are doing, and that is what we are. Denmark can do more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523093839	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will return after the rapporteur's round. I have a feeling we're gonna get out on the night before that happens. We are going to start the rapporteur's round, and first it is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523093903	Taras Pokotilo is Ukrainian. Until recently, he worked on a farm in Grindsted. Now he's gone home to fight Putin's troops. To Denmark's Radio he said before he left: It is our country, our home, and we must save it, for who else does it? The courage of Taras Pokotilo and many other Ukrainians is admirable. Their courage has reminded me of our own freedom fighters. Shortly after the outbreak of war, I found my old book of farewell letters from Danish freedom fighters, which was executed by the Germans during World War II. When you read their reports after 24 February, it is as if time and place are being dissolved, because history is now repeating itself elsewhere in Europe and with a new occupying power. Like Ukrainian Taras Pokotilo, Herold Jensen Svarre worked on a Jutland farm. The Germans executed Herold Jensen Svarre in Ryvangen on June 8, 1944. In a farewell letter to his family he wrote, among other things:: I am a Danish man and could not say no to what I should do. Now, many years later, Taras Pokotilo said almost the same thing: we must save our country, who else does it? I know that all of us in this Chamber both hope and believe that the Ukrainians of the future in a free Ukraine can think back of honorary man like Taras Pokotilo and thousands of other brave Ukrainian women and men. We must help the Ukrainians in their fight for freedom, and we do so together both at home and with our allies. The Western world has joined forces against the despot of the Kremlin, Vladimir Putin. We are united in massive sanctions that affect him, where he is most vulnerable, and we are contributing weapons and equipment. The Danes have welcomed the many foreign refugees, and the support to help our neighbours has been overwhelming. The world has changed since 24 February, which is why we must also take greater responsibility for Denmark's security. That is why we reached a national compromise on Danish security policy. Thank you to the parties that are behind and support the resolution, because the best defence against new acts of war is a strengthened relationship with our allies in NATO and in the European Union. We must strengthen Europe's defence so that Putin and other despots are deterred before they are tempted into new senseless acts of war. In Europe, we must take greater responsibility for our own security. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party recommend that we vote 'yes' on 1 June, 'yes' to joining European defence cooperation and abolishing the reservation; and 'yes', so that we do not, as the only EU country, have to stand side by side when our neighbouring countries take initiatives to ensure freedom and democracy; 'yes', which sends a clear signal to Putin that we have no reservations in terms of protecting freedom and democracy. Of course, the horror of war affects the Ukrainians first and foremost. They're definitely paying the highest price for Putin's aggression. But the war also has different consequences outside Ukraine. One of the most serious can stay in Africa. Ukraine's ruined cereal production can result in a great deal of famine. At home the consequences are smaller, yet so concrete for many in their daily lives that they feel them. It has become more expensive to take in the Usage or in Netto, more expensive to tank the car, more expensive to turn up the radiator. It particularly puts pressure on those who already do not have much, and we therefore aim to help those who have least targeted so that we do not carry firewood for the inflation fire and therefore, together with a number of parties, we have agreed to pay out a heat check to the households hit hardest by the rising prices. That is why we have proposed an old people's cheque for those who have the least. We will not be able to compensate broadly, as the Prime Minister explained. It would start a negative spiral leading to increased inflation. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot keep all Danes safe. But we are trying to help where the need is greatest, and fortunately our starting point is good. The state's finances are bottom-up solid. Never before have so many been at work, and despite the pandemic's ravages, Danish economy stands strong. We can thank the people for that. During a difficult time, the Danes came together and followed the recommendations of the authorities. We can thank employees and employers for their willingness to find solutions and to be flexible, and we can thank the Danish Parliament for pursuing a wise policy of crisis with the government. We have taken care of each other and of public health, aid packages have kept their hands on business and jobs, and the successful management of corona means that we are neither forced to cut welfare nor to raise taxes. We can still afford to ensure a dignified withdrawal for those with the longest and hardest working lives, and we must continue to implement the ambitious climate policy that will bring us into line with the 70-percent objective and make ourselves independent of Putin's gas. The climate crisis is one of our generation's most important tasks, and the task has not diminished since Putin's invasion of Ukraine. Climate policy has become a major security policy now too, and although I personally cannot take credit for the work, I am proud to be a member of a party which, together with the Folketing, has made more than 50 green agreements and strategies since we came into government, has prioritised 90 billion. kr. to the green transition, and has brought us far towards the goal of our goal of reducing CO2 by 2030. We are now putting turbo on the green switch so that we can get rid of Putin's gas as soon as possible and we will expand massively in terms of offshore winds, land winds and solar cells. Last week, the Prime Minister signed the Esbjerg Declaration together with Heads of Government from the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium, and the ambition is that the North Sea should deliver 150 GW from sea winds up to 2050. These offshore wind turbines will be able to provide up to 230 million European homes with energy. Decisions of that caliber will make a difference, just like when some of the world's largest countries move. A pioneering country could be India. Recently, India's Prime Minister Modi visited Denmark, and the green strategic partnership between India and Denmark has enormous potential. We still have a lot of work ahead of us in the green area before we can achieve the climate objectives. Difficult decisions and dilemmas await, but we take responsibility, and we have jointly shown in the Folketing that we can make it happen. We also have that in a completely different ball street: Arnepensionen. Our ambition to ensure a dignified retreat for those with the longest and hardest working lives was called by the then President of the Left the biggest bluff in Danish politics for generations, nothing less. I do not think that 62-year-old Arne Juhl or the 33.500 other Danes who have been granted the right to retire early agree with that characteristic. They may not agree either, and I would like us today to be able to promise those who have had the longest and hardest working life that there is tranquillity about that right, but unfortunately the reality is that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Here's something they can agree on. They'll abolish Arne's pension if they get the chance. I can guarantee from the Social Democrats that we will do everything we can to prevent it, and that is one of our most important promises in the future. In the Social Democratic Party we will ensure that when there are more elderly people who need care and more children who need care, the money goes with it. The Left said the same thing in the election campaign, and they even made a vow of welfare. But since then, the party knew the color. Suddenly, the unconditional welfare vow was turned into the core of Peer Gynt's famous onions. The welfare promise was watered down as the layers were peeled off by it, layer with conditions, layers with reservations, layers with bad excuses and layers with sea explanations. Finally, we reached the core, which, as we know, does not exist. Perhaps the former President of the Left would therefore also have hit the cleaner if he had spoken here about the biggest bluff in Danish politics for generations. Now, on behalf of the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Parliament condemns the war crimes inflicted by the Russian forces on the Ukrainian population. The Folketing agrees that the Ukrainian people must be supported with weapons, humanitarian aid and economic resources in their legitimate freedom struggle against Russia and that Ukrainian displaced persons must be protected until they can return to a free Ukraine again. The Folketing agrees to meet Russia with tough sanctions. The Folketing wants to intensify the necessary green transition, which is urgent for the sake of climate and the need to become independent of Russian energy. The Danish Parliament notes that the state's finances are sound, but that rising prices hit many Danes hard. The Folketing agrees to reduce economic inequality and combat child poverty. V-92).
ParlaMint-DK_20220523094759	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. There are now 45 minutes for short remarks and I can already say that we are not reaching all those who want one. But first it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523094817	Thank you very much for that, President. Thank you to the rapporteur and welcome to the platform as political rapporteur. After all, the government is pursuing an economic policy that hits all income groups in a really sluggish way, so that both rich and poor lose on government policy. Will the rapporteur not put a few words on the possible ideas that might lie behind such a policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523094837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523094840	Yeah, I'd love to. Thank you for your welcome, first of all. I don't recognize the picture. In connection with the agreements on Denmark, for example, we can make a concrete difference for people in employment by increasing the employment allowance, we increase the trade union allowance, we do everything we can to help ordinary people. And now that we are hit hard by inflation, it is also a targeted help that we are trying to provide to the Danes who have the very least. We have suggested helping with an extra heat check. It is they who have the very least and who have the very worst conditions to be able to provide funds in other ways. That is why this is our focus, while at a time when inflation is the problem, we need to be very careful about pumping money into the economy. That is also why it is a funded proposal that has been put forward and that the assessment is clearly that it will not breathe into inflation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523094934	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523094937	And the latter is very fine, but it does not change the fact that in the last three years the government has neglected the opportunity to make Denmark a much more prosperous country. Nor does it change the fact that if you look at the inequality in society, it has increased. Nor does it change the fact that all income groups have become poorer under this government and that the lowest income group is the one that has become the most poor under this government. So I'm just thinking there's gotta be some thoughts behind it. Is that what it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095008	For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. If the tobacco tax is increased, then there is the idea that we want to increase equality in public health and ensure that people have the opportunity to live a good, long and healthy life, no matter what part of society they come from. This is something which, in isolation, increases economic inequality, but which, overall and overall, increases equality in terms of health and gives people better lives. In addition, some of the other attacks, which have sometimes been from the blue side in relation to fiscal policy, have, for example, taken place. the financial contribution which helps to finance Arnepensionen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095044	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095055	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would like to ask a question about something that the rapporteur himself did not mention in his speech, namely whether the rapporteur thinks that we are doing enough to combat the misfortune we see in children and young people. When I ask, it is because the government, together with the SF, Enhedslisten and Radicals in the understanding paper, has written that we must have a national action plan for mental health that can promote the well-being of children and young people, and so we still have a plan of action to look at. And in the spring a national health profile was presented, and one in three young women and one in five young men between the ages of 16 and 24 miserable. We hear about long waiting times in the PPR, we hear about very long waiting times for psychologists, and so I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he knows whether the government is planning to launch this national action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095145	I agree with Mrs Trine Torp that it is of course very important to take it seriously when there are many children and young people who are miserable. But I also think that we have already taken joint initiatives in this direction. We've secured free psychological assistance. We have given priority to 600 million in the Finance Act. kr., I think it is, for psychiatry. In addition, we have, in general, kept our hands on economic policy, including in relation to public welfare institutions, so that there is better room for funding the efforts that may be needed. Finally, this is complex, and I believe, for example, that a cause of dissatisfaction among many young people may be that no one signals that they are needed. When, for example, Some 50,000 young people are outside both the education system and the labour market, so some have been allowed to sail their own lake, and I am sure they will have a much better life if some people got them going.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095245	Mrs. Trine Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095248	Thank you. I agree that this is complex and therefore cannot be solved with a pool for either one or the other, but precisely with a plan of action. After all, this is both about treatment and also about some of the things we can not just treat ourselves out of, but about some of the basic structures we have in our society that cause displeasure. Therefore, it is also essential that we get this action plan going, so that we get around both treatment, prevention, early interventions when you experience displeasure, and also the development of the development environments in which children and young people must thrive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095324	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095326	And that is a common ambition that we also want to continue to achieve. And at some point meetings are called for it, and it is then the Minister of Health from whom the dates can be obtained.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095337	Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095344	Thank you. I have learned to appreciate the Prime Minister's green hugs, for that is true what the Prime Minister said; they are an expression of pressure on the ground by some parties, among others. My own. So I wonder if I too could get such a green hug from the new political rapporteur from the Socialists. It would be a new break, I think. Let us try: The think tank Kraka has just presented some new calculations which show that electrification is actually the cheapest solution for the sugar factories on Lolland-Falster. So my first question to the rapporteur is: could we not start a little over with that? It is more gas that now needs to be used at a time when we need to make ourselves independent of gas. That's what we've decided. The two decisions are in stark contrast to each other. Shouldn't we try again?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095447	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095450	Well, I'd like to start with the green hug, because I'd like to accommodate that. Before I became a politician, I have a past in Danish Metal, where it was always incredibly interesting to visit both sub-contractors, but also larger production companies, which are some of those who fill a lot in public, i.e. Danfoss, Grundfos and all the other energy technology companies, which are of course helping to really encourage the green transition, not least in Denmark, but also to a large extent in the world. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Installing basic pumps in a huge infrastructure project in China, it is a place where Denmark can beat its weight class to draw a parallel to American rhetoric, because there you can really use much less energy than you had done. And often it is the energy that would have been generated from coal power stations and other fossil energy sources. I would like to see green hugs from here, and I think we have done a great deal to increase the research part and, incidentally, also the conversion of our own energy supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095550	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095554	Yes, it was a review of what we can do. But the specific question is about the gas pipeline to Lolland, which is what this is all about. Why don't we pause it and recalculate it? Because we also need that manpower. Are we going to use the manpower to create new gas that we need right now to expand the electricity grid and make ourselves independent of Russian gas? That's what I'm asking. There are new calculations on it. I really hope that there will be a real green hug from the Socialists here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095625	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095629	I thought there were two questions: the question of a green hug and the question of the other, and then I could not reach the other, but it will come now. As I understand it, for example, Holmegaard and Dan sigh the challenge that with the amounts of energy they need, you cannot cope with it solely by electrifying them. But, on the other hand, it is not necessarily crucial whether they need gas. It is then more a problem, what kind of gas they use, and there we can move away from natural gas and towards biogas, and then we can still do it in a green way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095659	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095707	Thank you for that, and congratulations to the rapporteur in his capacity as political rapporteur. The rapporteur says in his speech that an important argument for voting 'yes' is to send a clear signal to Putin, but surely not the most important signal we can send, after all, is what we are doing together in donating weapons to the legitimate freedom struggle of the Ukrainian Government and reintroducing harsh sanctions against Russia. In fact, one might wish that in the past the Socialists had been willing to send out a signal by not supporting Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2, which, of course, is very much financing the Russian war economy. The rapporteur also mentions that a reason for voting yes should be that we should strengthen the fight for freedom and democracy. I should just like to ask the rapporteur's view of the missions in Africa, for example. the mission in Mozambique, which defends the EU's trading and resource interests in relation to the extraction of gas, that is to say, which is also detrimental to the green transition, or the actions that are in Mali, where we know that EU-trained troops have been under the command of the Wagner Group or have contributed to the attack on civilians. Is this the type of freedom and democracy that we must support?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095808	Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095811	Yes, I think the signal value is a real argument at a time when Putin behaves as he does a few hundred kilometers from here. If we retain the defence reserve, we will be the only EU country that has this reservation, and we will see that neighbouring countries that are not members of the European Union can contribute to the European Union's defence work because they do not actively have a reservation. It could, for example, be done. be Norway, which can of course contribute, but we have an active position that we cannot, will not and must not. I think that is an obstacle, and I have no doubt that it is certainly something that Putin could use in his national propaganda by saying: look here, there are countries that do not think that it is so crucial whether or not you have this reservation. Now, of course, it is an extraordinary design that we have the reservation, but I believe that the signal value is real. It's just where I want to go. And yes, it is possible that you can find places where mistakes have been made. That can be done in all forms of cooperation, but despite that, the Enhedslisten is still positive about NATO, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095911	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095914	But let us now try to cut the controversy away and then deal with the concrete and look at the ongoing actions. They act, among other things. and to a large extent to safeguard the EU's trading and resource interests in Africa. In other words, it is the kind of action that the Socialists think we should support, or are the Socialists willing to veto, for example. Does it appear that there is an action that is about ensuring access to gas stocks, which we actually well know must remain in the ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523095941	Now I did not quite finish my answer before, but it was the Enhedslisten's kind of hesitant, new orientation towards NATO that I would have been talking about time running. As far as Africa is concerned, there can be plenty of projects that would be relevant to ensuring the stabilisation of Europe, ensuring that they are in relation to migratory flows and ensuring that ships are not subjected to piracy, from which it will of course be in Danish interest to help protect against. In addition, the other day there was a meeting of EU defence ministers on future possible interventions in Ukraine. It can be anything from mine clearance to help Ukrainians protect their country, protect grain transports from Ukraine, etc. We cannot take an active part in this today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100019	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100021	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for his speech and congratulations on the new job. Like Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, I would really like a hug by the rapporteur now that the Prime Minister has stopped doing so. I would like to see Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, who is about us perhaps dropping this talk about the demographic trait... that's the sort of tribal language we have in here, and we're talking about that as something absolutely sacred... and that instead we get there, where we embrace civil society; where we embrace the public sector; where we embrace it, that you might do things in a new way; where we focus on what's good for the old people, whether it's in the municipal nursing home or the home, it's just as much as you have the free choice... so instead of closing your eyes and blindly letting the public sector grow, we have a talk about what real welfare is, that we make demands on each other, that it should be more about care than it should be about money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100127	For that. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100128	First of all, thank you for your welcome. Compared to the hugging, I'm gonna have to think of something we can use it for. But I would also like to say that I find it difficult to see that, in large parts of the blue block, the demography is regarded as a sacred argument. On the contrary, I think that we have quite brazenly failed to take account of the fact that demographics have changed ■ that we have become more young and more older by underfunding welfare for years. That is why I think it is only on the other side of the House that there are many who can afford to boast of having regarded it as something sacred. And I think that is only a good thing, because the second is that even if there are more elderly people in the nursing home every year, you continue to buy only one orthellolag cake, figuratively speaking. And so, at some point, it's too thinly cut out, and that's what doesn't work. There are limits to how much we can talk about productivity changes in terms of people and care and presence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100230	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100231	Yes, of course there is. But compared to this calculation with one to one, i.e. that one always costs a unit price, I just don't think you can look at our welfare society like that. Because then we say to the public sector: you cannot do any more; you cannot do any better; we do not believe that management helps at all. In other words, the head of the nursing home must leave the office and must also be able to take a shift; the head of the nursing home must show a way, show how it should be and how we care for each other • that we should actually touch the elderly, that it should not be a large machine park in a nursing home. The demographic move has ended up being something where we just say it, and then we send a check. A check isn't enough. It's about caring.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100306	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100309	Well, then the hug is coming, 'cause I totally agree with that. I just think it sounds a little hollow when you make it sound like the economy really doesn't matter. That must be the basis for the fact that, for years, the public sector has been underfunded as significantly as it has been. For it is certainly not the case that we have the slightest resistance to productivity growth.At least we do not have that in the Social Democratic Party if there are workflows that can be made smarter if there is bureaucracy that can be cut away if there are human relations that can get more space instead of work in the office. It's only good that we can agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100343	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100343-2	I noted that the Prime Minister said about the national compromise, that for a while differences were being shelved, in relation to the discharge of the referendum on the abolition of the reservation. Nevertheless, I could not hear much in the text of the adoption which the rapporteur read out, which was about the vote on 1 June, and I wondered a little about that. What could be the reason for this? Have we not been able to agree with our parliamentary support parties? What is the reason for choosing in front of such an important one, I would almost say fate in relation to Danish defence and security policy, to remain silent about that vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100426-2	I really think that the crucial thing in our adoption text is that the whole theme of it is full support for Ukraine in every possible way. That is what I attach most importance to. Moreover, I think that any party in here should argue in favour of its case with the appropriate arguments. And when you sometimes had to smoke in Detector because you get to use some arguments that don't keep water in reality, I think you should also consider whether you should not do any of your arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100455	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100456	But that wasn't an answer, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. So, what is the reason why, shortly before such a decisive referendum, we do not choose to deal with the matter? Could it be because the Prime Minister is not right that the parties behind the national compromise for a while put aside the differences, for example. because the Radical Left very explicitly wants to remove the right of veto on EU foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100522	After all, the parties behind the national compromise are all in favour of abolishing the defence reserve. So there's no disagreement there. In addition, I would like to say again that we are different parties, and there is a reason for this. We don't agree on everything. I also assume that we will see different texts adopted from the blue block today, but there is nothing new or unorthodox about that. Now, after all, we have simply put together a majority behind that text of adoption, and I am only glad that we have been able to agree on this, so that we put a clear, unambiguous distance to Putin and give full support to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100557	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100558	Thank you. The Danish job centres are, to say the least, a scandal. We can see in the media today how people get whipped around the system and also get more sick than they were when they entered the system. We have people who are just temporarily out of work who turn into public clients from day one. We spend many billions at our job centers • 4 billion. kr. It is strange that administrative expenditure has increased as employment has increased, i.e. unemployment has fallen. In the autumn the Social Democratic Employment Rapporteur was out to say that it screams to heaven when it turned out that the City of Copenhagen hadn't made a single reference • not a single one. The last two years had not done anything of what was required by law to get people into work. Now it turns out it has been digging up that 58 municipalities throughout the country have acted in the same way over the last 2 years. I think it is deeply serious that we have something that we spend so much money on and that people are being dragged through the system to such an extent. What does the Social Democrats intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100710	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100711	Wherever scandals or mistakes occur, where people are treated badly, whether it is in a public institution as a job centre or in a private company, or where it may be in our society, I would never dream of standing here and backing it up by saying that what has happened in the given place should just continue unsatisfied. But I also think that we should be careful to generalise in relation to all job centres on the basis of a few cases that have been in the media, where I know that the Minister for Employment has also taken this very seriously, has answered questions and has clearly indicated that he has also not been satisfied with some of the issues that have been raised, among other things. Some of the people we've all read about in the daily press. I could never dream of defending something like that, for example. is about people who are very ill and yet are being dragged through a bureaucracy that every common sense says was not suitable for just them when they were in their hospital bed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100807	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100807-2	Thank you. Of course you cannot generalise, but you just have to say that we have an employment area with a total of 15 000 employees, and there are 12 000 in the job centres alone. We spend more than 13 billion. kr. a year on this and, as I said, 4 billion. kr. alone on administration. It is the Social Democracy that has the power of government. It is the Social Democratic Party that has the opportunity to do something about this. Nothing concrete has happened. You've been in power for three years. What's going on? What are you going to do? It was not long ago we were standing in this Chamber discussing proposals to withdraw at least the homeless from the job centres. Not even you will be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100845	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100846	I do not wish to deny that there may be a need for some adjustments and changes in some areas. But I also think that one should look at how things really are going in Danish society. There have never been as many people in employment as there are at the moment. Employment is on the increase. After all, people get jobs, and after all, some people are past a job center when they get it. You also get it through your network and through friends. Some get it through their a-box or through meetings of their union. So if you draw such a big picture of the fact that nothing works, then I do not quite recognize it, since employment is actually excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100923	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523100925	Thank you. The government prides itself on being financially responsible, and I asked some time ago the Ministry of Finance what the consequences of the government's overall economic policy are. And there I got the answer that the government's overall economic policy had made all income groups in Denmark poorer except the second richest income group. Well, not the Ferrari segment, but the Mercedes segment had become richer, but everyone else had become poorer. And the inequality had increased it's You've done the 10 percent. The poorest Danes are even poorer. And that's, despite the fact that you went to the polls on the contrary. I have been trying to get answers from a number of ministers recently to how it has made life worse for the poorest in Denmark, that the government has made them poorer, and I have not been able to get answers. It is a tradition in Danish politics that the difficult questions are passed on from the ministers to the political rapporteur, so I will see if I can get answers from the political rapporteur. How has it affected the lives of the poorest in Denmark that government policy has impoverished them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101028	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101029	Well, the most concrete answer I can give to that and it should not sound as if I just think it is positive, but that is the honest explanation for the increasing economic inequality, after all, that we are a broad majority in this House who have decided to raise tobacco prices. And it is true in isolation that it increases inequality in relation to the economic cost that is around it, but, on the other hand, hopefully it increases equality in relation to the fact that, in future, people, regardless of the length of their education and regardless of the postal code in which they live, will have a life span and will have some good years as pensioners who are more similar to each other than what we see today, where there is a huge imbalance in it. And to answer as directly as possible, that's probably the best answer I can give to it. Moreover, I think that reducing inequality to a single pointer about the economy is a little difficult, because I also think that public health and social mobility and life opportunities play a role in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101132	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101133	It is true that the tobacco tax is the main driver of the increase in inequality and poverty, but even if the tobacco tax is deducted, the Ministry of Finance says that inequality is increasing, and government policy makes the poorest in Denmark even poorer, also without So what I find interesting to ask is: When you have chosen that the bourgeois people created too much poverty, and that you should do so, and then you make the poorest in Denmark even poorer, how has it affected the lives of the poorest in Denmark that they have become even poorer? Is it really just that it doesn't matter that the government has made them even poorer, or do you recognise that it is actually something that has made their lives harder and that you should perhaps pursue a policy that makes the Danes richer?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101211	Some of the people in Denmark who have the least are of course among others. Some of them are on different transfer incomes. That is why I think it is extremely positive that the proportion of people who are on, for example. cash assistance has fallen dramatically during this reign. Many have come to work and have been given the basis for a good life, which is not characterized by poverty • where their children see their father and mother leave in the morning and come home in the evening and have had a working day; where they can take a summer vacation again and live as their companions. And that in combination with housing policy, student distribution in high schools... well, now I am interrupted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101248	Yeah, it's like I'm trying to control it like that, when the time is up and you're on a sentence, I'm gonna get up. I'm gonna wait a little while before I get up. But if you start a new sentence, it's that I'm starting to interrupt. That's the way I try to control it. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101304	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. Now we have just had Nature's meeting in Hirtshals, where concern was expressed from all sides in relation to the decline in nature. And there is also a broad consensus that nature lacks space. That is why, in the Greens, we have tabled a proposal for a binding biodiversity law on an equal footing with our climate legislation. And there I would like to hear the rapporteur: why is it that the Social Democratic Party cannot support such a law and prioritise that we actually give nature space? Another question is about the new project with offshore wind turbines in Esbjerg, which is fantastic: how important will nature play there? How much attention is being paid, and can we risk the possibility of the right of appeal being abolished there too?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101351-2	The short answer is that it is because we think it is a bit of work to get started if the Free Greens do not then come and vote for their own proposal when it comes to voting. No, I'm kidding. I think that we have already done a great deal to ensure biodiversity, and I fully agree that this is a crucial focus area, because we can see how insects lack space and potential for development, as does nature. We have adopted a law on national parks throughout Denmark. There will be untouched forest; there will be good opportunities for both small animals and larger animals to unfold. That is a hugely important contribution, and I really think that is more important than having another legislative exercise in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101437	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101438	Yes, natural parks and untouched forests are super fine, but the national parks will only concern 0.6%. of our area, so it's a very small step. It was a comment, but my second question is: the third question will be that of Aalborg Portland. Now, when we're going to reduce our CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101514	Well, it's not just to answer the first one first... the national parks. We have, for example. also adopted a ban on the use of certain pesticides. I mean, there are other things being done. In relation to Aalborg Portland, I don't really share that picture. In other words, it is clear that if you look at it in a very isolated way and if you do not want cement production at all, it is very simple, and if you also look at the fact that it is being moved south of the border, it is also very simple. But I do not think it is right to say that in our proposal we did not take into account the fact that Aalborg Portland should also contribute. Aalborg Portland stands for 20%. of the sector's or sector's emissions, but of course it has to deliver 25%. of the contribution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101551	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101553	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask about some of the things that the rapporteur was not about in his speech, namely the forced distribution of primary school pupils, which the Socialist rapporteur has revealed in this area. I would like to ask: how many Danish families will be affected by social democracy's plans for the forced distribution of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101616	We do not have a concrete plan for any form of forced distribution. But it is clear that the Social Democrats want us to have a primary school in the future where we meet cross-country. And there are supposed to be discussions in the municipalities on how this can be done. And I have sometimes seen that there are some, among other things. from Mr. Thomas Danielsen's party, which makes very direct parallels to the agreement on high schools. But it's too simplistic. Well, that's quite another way it's regulated in the field of primary school. KL and the municipalities on how to ensure in a good way that we meet across the public school and thus help to maintain the high level of trust and cohesion and community feeling that we are characterised by in Danish society. And it is when you meet and get to know each other whether your parents are directors or are affected by cash benefits that you gain trust and trust is given the opportunity to grow.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101718	Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101718-2	So now there are different communities, and I know that the Social Democrats welcome forced communities. We welcome voluntary communities, and if we do not want to lift the veil at this stage of how many children are affected by forced distribution plans, then the rapporteur must be able to tell me whether the Social Democrat rapporteur in this area has been misquoted in the Berlingske Tidende on 1 May, when he makes it clear that he will distribute school children according to the income of the parents. Is this something to be corrected in the Berlingske Tidende?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101754	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101755	We have no particular preference for forced communities. But it is clear that when we have a primary school, which we can see in some places is pressed by the way the search for them is, that is, where they for example. All of a sudden, 30 students with a foreign background in a class or how many of them are now 26 or 27 and one with a Danish background, then there is a bias, and then Danish families start to opt out of primary school. And then we see a blossoming, and it could be, sir. Thomas Danielsen thinks that it is only a great time for private schools and free schools instead. And then we lose this crucial link, which the primary school is for the cohesion of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101832	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101835	It is very funny that the reason you want to remove people's free choice is because you don't have a good enough primary school, and you have starved that too by removing the talent pool. So that's very funny. However, I would like to ask you something else: financial responsibility. Social democracy claims that they care a lot about people's finances, and there are a lot of Danes who feel pinched on the wallet at the moment. People drop the steaks, and it may seem to be very good in terms of environmental considerations, but it is a pity that it is because of economic reasons. They also drop all the brand goods and stuff, and while the government is putting more taxes on the Danes. At the moment, we are dealing with legislation on taxes that makes home insurance more expensive, that pensions become more expensive, that mortgages become more expensive. There is a cultural VAT which the government has also proposed and which we are discussing in committee, and then there will now be a new streaming tax. How is it connected when the government claims that it cares that the Danes' economy is connected while still pulling more money out of the pockets of the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523101935	It is true that when you look at consumer confidence, you can see that it is too downward at the moment. It may not be so strange about everything that is happening around us and about the uncertainty created by a war in one of our neighbouring countries. But when you look at all the other key figures, you can see that Denmark is historically strong, and you don't just have to listen to my words. You can read financial statements. You can see the other rankings that are made. You can see how, in comparison with other countries, we are doing very well in terms of public debt, employment and expectations of GDP growth. I find this a little difficult to ignore completely in an assessment of how we deal with economic policy. I would also like to say that if you think you should pursue a responsible economic policy, then you should not argue for tax cuts at a time when inflation is the problem. I mean, inflation was 6.7%. in April. If we pour tax relief into society right now, that inflation will be pounding up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102033	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102034	I wasn't talking about tax breaks at all. I was talking about tax increases. That's the opposite. The government claims that it is interested in the Danes' economy. I can now hear that the rapporteur thinks that the Danes' economy is quite fine because there is a high level of employment. But a lot of Danes experience higher prices and interest rates rise on their mortgage loans. That's why it's really inappropriate to increase taxes on these things. We in the Left are concerned that the economy is linked to the ordinary Dane. Of course, I am sorry to hear that the Socialists do not. Why do you want to pull so much money out of the Danes' pockets without helping them at a time when they're having such a hard time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102108	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102109	I'm sorry I misunderstood. I thought that the Left would like tax relief, but the Left wouldn't want it now anyway. In other words, it is also responsible to do so in the situation we are in, in other words, not to argue for tax cuts, because it is not the time to throw money into the economy. I didn't say at any time it was also part of my speech that it didn't hit people on the wallet. This, of course, particularly affects those who have the least. This is a huge problem, and we must then do what we can to help as closely as possible, because we cannot compensate the entire population.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102142	Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102143	Natural gas has always been climate-laden. Now it's so expensive, and besides, it pays right down into Putin's war chest. In Denmark, more II· the government has submitted its proposal on how to get rid of natural gas as soon as possible, and the rapporteur also repeated it up here. In 2030, the government says. The fine thing is that as soon as possible is before 2030. But it requires that you are willing to put some money in the conversion away from natural gas, and when you look down at the government's initiative in Denmark can more II ■, there is not one new crown to get the biogas out faster, get the district heating out faster. And in Jutland, we know that nothing is free, but I have some doubts as to whether, in terms of getting rid of natural gas as soon as possible, the government believes that it should actually be free, or whether it just doesn't think it should go so fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102238	Well, we think it should, and there are more clues to these things. On the one hand, the gas market is also very much an EU market, or a European market, and, on the other hand, it is also linked to the green market, which, I believe, is also relevant to mention in this context that in the green road map, which provides an overview of what is going to happen in the green area until 2030, the various green agreements and different objectives are being visited on an ongoing basis. And if it suddenly turns out that you could do something faster than the gas, it's only good. In other words, right now I think the realistic objective is to hold on to 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102330	Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102331	Yes, but there is a very easy tool that is right in front of it, and that is to speed up some biogas production. It's gonna take some new money. So the question is whether the government is willing to find some new money to get the natural gas out faster. And it is true what the rapporteur says, that if we use less natural gas in Denmark and move on to full green gas, we can also help the rest of Europe to get rid of Putin's natural gas more quickly. So the question comes back to the same thing... not about return visits, but whether the government is willing to find some new money to get rid of the natural gas more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102408	Thank you. Then we will have the answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102409	But one of the things that Mrs Signe Munk attaches importance to here is to avoid having to buy Putin's gas, and I agree with that, of course, is an essential objective, and there we will, after all, be a part of the way when the Tyra field is reopened. That is where we will then be able to deliver much of the gas we need in Denmark and export to our neighbours. And I think that is an important contribution in the context of which we are also talking about avoiding having to buy it from Putin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102435	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102438	Thank you for that, and congratulations on the new post. I would like to ask one of the most important things at home, namely our children and young people, and that they meet educated and skilled teachers and educators. Now it is quite a long time since we have had the recommendations for a new teacher and teacher training programme. We are a series of rapporteurs in here who are perfectly clear and just waiting. The educational institutions out there are ready and waiting. Teachers and educators and students are ready and waiting. Apparently, the only ones who aren't ready are the Social Democrats. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: why have we not started negotiating new teacher and educator courses long ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102517	I believe that we share the objective of strengthening what is sometimes called welfare education, i.e. among other things. vocational training courses. It is also a real problem that we need both nurses and teachers and educators and social workers. We are very concerned about trying to solve that problem. You solve it in different ways, among other things. by ensuring that there are educational institutions throughout the country and not just in the large cities. For there are also people who want to become a teacher, but who may not want to live in Copenhagen or Aarhus. That's one of the ways we're trying to get to know this. If part of the question also goes on some date requests and things like that, i.e. when you are called to meetings and something like that, then I simply think that the easiest thing is to address the question to the Minister for Research and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102604	Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102605	After all, it is quite interesting that we are so many parties that have pressed for the negotiations to start. We have told the Minister several times. We in the Radical Left have even helped to find the money to make these educations better. So all we're waiting for is Social Democracy. And therefore, again, if not for the sake of the Radical Left, one saw for all the many educational institutions and students waiting out there: when does the government expect us to negotiate? And thus: When does the government expect there to be a new teacher training? That's the answer you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102637	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102639	Sometimes, when you get some good recommendations and some good assessments of various experts such as those referred to by Mrs Lotte Rod, you have to spend some time chewing them through, and then I am sure that the actual date exercise will find out the parties together with the Minister for Research and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102655	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102658	The consequences of social democracy's policies over the last three years are about 40 tax increases to the Danes. 10 billion kr. Danes now have to pay more tax every year. I do not think that promotes consumer confidence. But it may also not promote understanding and respect for what the parties say to the Danes before an election. The former political rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party, who is now Minister of Finance, said before the last elections: with the policy of the Social Democratic Party one must be a bank, inherit a company or earn a great deal of money from shares and the like in order to get a tax increase. 95% by the Danes should not experience rising taxes. How does the Social Democrat political rapporteur today feel that the Social Democratic Party has lived up to that electoral promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102744	I mean, we've lived up to that. See, for example. on how we prioritise, it is, after all, the employment allowance that we have been focusing on. I don't think so many bankers enjoy that much. This benefits ordinary employees. In addition, when we increase the deduction for union membership, it is also ordinary employees who benefit from it. It's not typical of the bank manager either. It is possible that they are also unionized, but I do not think it means that much to them. Finally, I can say that one of the tax increases that are a great deal in this discussion is the increase in tobacco, which after all is not just something Social Democracy is in favour of. I am well aware of the broad support for us to adopt it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102829	Here you go, Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102830	I think there are quite a lot of Danes who pay packaging taxes. It's 38%. by the Danes, who have a streaming-gabonnement, a streaming-gabonnement, which the Social Democratic Party now believes should be subject to an extra tax. Then it is not true what the Minister of Finance said when he was a political rapporteur, namely that 95 per cent. of the Danes would not experience tax increases with a social democratic government. Because that's what the Danes do, whether they smoke or buy packaging or now predate themselves to have a streamin gunnement. Can the rapporteur not confirm that the policy pursued by the Social Democratic Party is contrary to the promise made by the Minister for Finance prior to the last elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102910	No. But I also think that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen forgets to mention that, on the other hand, there are also some who see things going the other way. I mean, when, for example... The employment allowance goes up, you get more money paid out. In addition, it is true that it now costs DKK 6 when you have to buy a plastic bag down at the supermarket. It's gotten pretty expensive. It may then also be that it increases the incentive that some of those who think it is expensive take a bag with themselves and use it several times. Well, that's one of the examples that Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen mentioned in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102942	Then it's Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523102946	Thank you. I would also like to ask questions about free elections, because it has to be said that the Social Democratic Party has succeeded in cutting back free elections in the area of the elderly, in the area of day-care, and also in the area of high school where there is this forced distribution of pupils, which must then be based on parents' income. And then there has been such an additional agreement, but a supplementary agreement doesn't do anything about the fact that it's still a bad deal. So I'm actually just gonna ask the question: it's not gonna stop here, is it? The next thing that has happened to the Social Democrat rapporteur is that there should now be a change in the distribution in the area of primary education. So I would actually just like to ask the rapporteur to lift the veil a little bit about the plans for how the next forced distribution should take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103035	But all this obsessive rhetoric I simply do not recognise, because it is not the case that today there is only complete freedom of choice on all shelves when you apply to a high school. Well, today, in round numbers, nine out of ten students applying to a high school are given their first priority. With the new agreement, that number will be at least the same. These are the figures, and I think Mrs Mai Mercado is well aware of this; therefore I do not understand why this rhetoric of coercion is being maintained, because there has never been a free admission. It has always been the case that it should be distributed according to where there was room. Then the question is: should it take place at random or should it take place in a way that ensures that we live together cross-country and that we do not create ghetto schools etc.? That's what you have to do with yourself, what you want to do with yourself, and that's where I'm happy with the deal you've made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103121	Mai Mercado, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103122	That is simply not true, because the election will be less free with the forced distribution agreement. It's gonna be fewer students who get their first priority. And, of course, it is very significant for the Social Democratic Party to go in and stubborn the free choice, whether it is about being able to choose a nursing home, personal care or your children's daycare institution. And, of course, I would like the Social Democrats to go the other way and to respect the fact that people are different and that they prioritise and choose differently. Now we have seen the hetzen against the day institutions, hetzen against the private schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103158	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103159	I do not understand why we continue to insist on saying something that is not right. First of all, this thing with compulsion: there's never been free admission. Secondly, this issue of how many are given their first priority: according to the calculations and forecasts for the new agreement, there are more who get their first priority with the new agreement than there were before there are more who get it. And then it's not right to draw that picture that it's coercion, or that we push people where they don't want to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103229	The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103233	Thank you. The economic security of our society is under threat. And we know that the reforms adopted by the previous bourgeois government have major consequences in relation to the fact that inequality is still growing and have thrown thousands of people, including more children than adults, into poverty. This is important, both for inequality in concrete terms and for the security of employees, because they are afraid of getting a bill or getting sick. It has an impact on wages in our society. We are currently seeing how Ukrainian war refugees are being exploited to 75 DKK. per hour in agriculture, in the catering industry and in the cleaning industry. And then it has a huge impact on the individual who suffers deprivation and on the children, where just a year of poverty has an impact on whether or not to get an education. That is why I would like to ask the Social Democratic Party that three years have now passed and we are currently in negotiations on benefits and they are hardly moving forward. What's going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103335	First of all, I would like to say that I can hardly express how much disgust I share with Mrs Victoria Velasquez when it comes to people who come from a desperate situation and are exploited by unscrupulous people here or elsewhere. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. To the second part of the question of benefits, I would like to say that there are some balances that we may consider slightly different, to put it mildly, in this room. We believe that there is a very important balance in ensuring that there are no children living in child poverty in Denmark. However, we also think that there is a very important balance in ensuring that there is an incentive to take a job. And I also think that there is a balance in ensuring that there aren't people sitting around the world thinking about what to set course to seek accommodation, and then thinking that Denmark might be a very good place, because there they have some lucrative services. And those considerations must then be found some way to reconcile and balance, and this is a very difficult exercise. I'm happy to admit that. I really think that we have done all we could together to protect the children since we arrived with this temporary family allowance, many of whom receive it having a foreign background, but where there are also many with Danish backgrounds who receive it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103442	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103443	Frankly, I do not think that we can continue to apologize or talk about balance. The unemployment figures speak for themselves. The best way to combat unemployment is to work. We have just received an evaluation of the temporary family allowances, which the rapporteur also really mentioned, which actually shows that having decent living conditions has a positive effect on the search for work. There are simply not enough excuses to land an agreement. So I would like to hear: when does the rapporteur expect us to actually live up to the promises made by the Social Democrats themselves and which are also at the heart of the paper of understanding?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103519	I think it's a little more nuanced than that. Because I think that it could rightly offend people's sense of justice if they had a low-paid job in Danish society and then could see that some of their neighbours got almost the same thing paid out without getting up in the morning and going to work. I also believe that it could have a negative effect on the employment situation if we do not think well about changing the benefit system. That is why I do not think it is as simple as it is proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103553	The last brief comment on the rapporteur is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103558	Thank you. Congratulations on the mail; there will be plenty to do. I heard at the beginning of Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's speech said that it had just been said that 5,000 kroner had been proposed. More for pensioners, and then I didn't hear much more. What's in it for? 'Cause I think it's still hanging a little bit. I mean, it is very easy to propose some things, but I think that a government has a duty to be more solid. Perhaps it would have been good if the Prime Minister had called for a debate and said that there are real problems at the moment on the basis of everything we are experiencing. It's expensive, yeah. Funny enough, I was actually surprised by that pack of butter for 22-25 kroner. A lot of people are hanging out there now, especially pensioners, but I just don't hear anymore. Well, it's easy to suggest. Hey! It's hanging in the air. What's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103655	First of all, thank you for your congratulations; it is true that there will be enough to attend to. But I do not think it is entirely true that it is hanging in the air. In other words, there are currently negotiations in the Ministry of Taxation, which also concerns our proposal for an old-age check for those who have the least old-age pension. It is going on in these weeks, so it is not something we have just proposed, and then we are moving on with everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103726	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103727	But there are just no narrow places when it comes to immigrants. That's where I think the problem is. In other words, there is not so much lateness when more immigrants need more money. In other words, the Service Commission is well in the process of giving newcomers much, much more money than what we have seen. And there I just think there's a big difference. It is much faster when it comes to giving more to immigrants and foreigners in Denmark than when it comes to pensioners. There is no waiting for long negotiations. I also think it might have been better if we had said a tax-free old-age check than all those a little weird things. More money is fine, but there may not be much in reality in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103812	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103813	I don't think so, among other things. Mrs Victoria Velasquez, who spoke before, would agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. After all, we have been discussing the level of benefits for immigrants for several years now, and we are very concerned that we are not just going to increase the benefits for immigrants, because there must be a very strong incentive to get to work. That's also why we have this proposal for a 37-hour duty. People have to work, they have to deliver a job, and then they can get benefits after how many hours they show up. I hope that the Danish People's Party and others will help to make such an agreement at some point, but it is a work that is going on. It is not the case that we generously print cheques for immigrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103849	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, and thank you to the Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. Welcome to sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523103917	Thank you. I'd like to talk about responsibility today. Because we can do so much when we take responsibility and when we get the opportunity. Unfortunately, on 24 February, Putin gave us that opportunity when he rolled across Ukraine's borders. He started a new chapter in Europe's history. We have seen horrible images of death and destruction, of men, women and children killed or on the run from their homes. I think we all remember the pictures from the first weeks of the war. I remember one night when I came home, and my wife, Anne Marie, showed me a video from Ukraine I think most of you have seen it. It's a father who quickly puts his family on a train and says goodbye. The tears gently rolled down our cheeks, which sat here safe, not so far away, but with our own family. But now the free world is not content to cry for Ukraine. We'll help them. We help them with weapons in their fight against the Russian superpower, and it works. Imagine if the free world had not united, had not supplied weapons to Ukrainian freedom fighters, had not received refugees and had not sanctioned the sun black against Russia. So thank you to the many people in this Chamber and in the rest of Denmark who have taken responsibility, as it really was. Putin's invasion has changed the world, and it has also changed Danish politics. On 6 March, the Left, together with the government, the SF, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, took responsibility, and I would like to thank you all very much. We need 2%. of our bnp on the defense before the end of 2033 yes, Left worked well enough for an earlier date. The agreement is a national compromise and it is a good agreement. For Denmark must arm itself, not to go to war, but to ensure peace at home. In 9 days, 1 June, the Danes are going to vote. For me, it is about what a country Denmark wants to be. Should Denmark take responsibility and stand with our allies, or should we leave responsibility to the others and remain outside? I have no doubt. Defence cooperation in the European Union is about shouldering a shared responsibility, about ensuring peace and freedom in Europe and in the world. We are doing this by participating in European defence cooperation, and we are doing this by voting yes on 1 June. The national compromise will also change the economic debate in the Folketing. It hasn't really happened yet, but it's coming. We have invested in our security and we give priority to the development of the welfare society, and if we are going to be able to give priority to welfare, growth and green conversion in the future, we must once again pursue a responsible economic policy in Denmark. Otherwise, we cannot carry out an ambitious and responsible green transition that makes our country richer and stronger, so that we can be familiar with leaving it to the next generations. It is the duty of our generation. It's our responsibility. That is why it is not acceptable, for example, for example. unfunded cheques for selected electoral groups. It weakens our economy, it risks increasing inflation, and it happens in addition to the fact that the government has already made it more expensive to be a Dane at a time when prices are rising. I hope that a responsible economic policy will soon come into being in the Folketing and in the government, so that we do not just live high on the hard work of previous governments. The Danish economy is only at the heart of today because of the reforms that previous governments, often led by the Left, have carried out. It has equipped us for uncertain times, and that is also why we can invest in green conversion, in our defence and in our common welfare. But the Social Democratic Government chose to go new and more expensive ways. Over the last three years, the government has all too often put its hand in the pockets of citizens and businesses. The government has raised taxes more than 40 times for more than 10 billion. kr. The government has made nine out of ten Danes poorer, and the 10%. of the population with the least money in their hands is experiencing the greatest decline. The government has removed people from the labour market and made it less attractive to work. It is a policy that has been pursued for the money of others and on the shoulders of the efforts and responsibilities of others. That kind of policy has its expiration date. Now that the world economy challenged. Prices are rising. This underlines the need to take responsibility and take care of Denmark's economy. If the Danes show the Left the confidence in the parliamentary elections, then that is what we will do. The Left will carry out reforms that leave the money in Danes' pockets and ensure good conditions for Danish business. The left will increase the level of ambition by getting even more in work, attracting international labour and making Denmark richer. The left will increase the gain when a public service is replaced with a job. We want to abolish the government's money bill for the benefit recipient and, in particular, unemployed immigrants. Instead, more must experience the joy and freedom of having a job. And the Left will lower taxes for people in work and create calm and security about the economy of Danes and Danish companies with our tax freezes. Because it should not be more expensive to be a Dane and run a business when we already have the world's highest tax burden. Within a year, we're going to parliamentary elections. It will be a choice between who is best at taking responsibility for the individual Dane and our community. Who should be responsible for your life? Is it the Social Democracy, or is it you? I have no doubt. The Danes must have more freedom and more opportunities. Because that's how you can only take responsibility if you're free to do it. Otherwise it's forced. That is why we in the Left are so fervently opposed to the government's anti-freedom policy because it deprives people of the opportunity to take personal responsibility. The government wants, for example: to introduce compulsory distribution of young people into secondary education on the basis of parents' income. About 20,000 young people can be included in the government's forced distribution. There are some who will be sent away by bus or by train, away from their local area, away from their friends. Young people are placed in a box by the government because their parents are too poor or too rich to the taste of the Social Democrats. No one dreams of narrowing their choices. We don't want that as parents when we choose school for our children. The elderly will not do so when they choose how to create a secure old age. Of course, neither will the Prime Minister. And I think it is better-known when the Social Democratic Party will make the choice for the Danes. This is not the way forward, whether it is high school or school choice, whether it is the choice of a dignified old age or whether it is some of the many choices that lie in the middle. In the Left, we believe that people can and will take responsibility for their own lives. Our party stems from a rural peasant culture where you did exactly that. They took responsibility for themselves and for each other. And in a modern society, it requires confidence that the citizen can make those choices himself. That is why we call it bourgeois, because we trust the citizen. Therefore, it is my political mission and that of the Left to create a Denmark where the individual takes responsibility for his own life and has the freedom to decide how life is best lived. Because you have only one life, so you need to have the opportunity to use it wisely for yourself and for the community. And frankly, as members of the Folketing, it should be our joint responsibility to ensure the individual more freedom and more opportunities. Then, on behalf of the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the New Citizens' Party, the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Naser Khader and Mr. Orla Østerby read out the following: Suggested adoption The Parliament condemns Putin's invasion of Ukraine and notes that the changed security policy situation demands the policy pursued in Denmark. The Folketing stresses the importance of making ourselves independent of Russian energy so that we do not co-finance the Russian war. The Folketing stresses the importance of pursuing a responsible economic policy. Reforms that make Denmark richer are the prerequisite for welfare, an ambitious green transition, and that we can take care of Denmark's security. The Danish Parliament expresses concern that the government has made the Danes poorer by making repeated tax increases. The Danish Parliament expresses concern that the government restricts the opportunities of young people and the free choice of welfare services by citizens. The Danish Parliament notes that action is needed to ensure more freedom. The Folketing stresses the importance of a strict and sensible foreign policy so that high Danish services do not attract migrants. If you come to Denmark, you must support yourself, respect Danish culture and comply with the country's legislation. • V 93).
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105016	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the text of the adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105026	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. First of all, I would like to say that Arnepensionen did not fill so much in the speech that this right is for those who have had the longest and hardest working life to retire and get some good years to retire. Is it not true that the Left is still seeking to abolish this system as soon as possible? And is this, by the way, linked to the talk about taxes, about which there was a lot in the speech, so that a tax relief can then be granted back to the financial sector, which is of course some of those who make a contribution to financing Arnepensionen? So it can be said, figuratively speaking, that this is to move some money from slaughter workers and others with hard, long working lives and then to the banks, which is part of the objective of Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's political project here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105114	No, it's wrong. Well, it's no secret that Arnepensionen hasn't so much grown in our garden. After all, there is not a single member of the Folketing who does not believe that people who are worn out in the labour market should be allowed to withdraw. We all think so. But that's not what Arne's pension is going on. Arnepensionen is targeted at a social democratic electorate who has a certain number of years on the labour market, and is designed to pretend to all Danes that this is something that hits me exactly. But it doesn't. And it is true that then you take the money from the bad banks, because no one sympathises with them. But the bill ends in one place, and that's with the Danes. So I think we should improve the senior pension. That is what we proposed, and we had a majority in favour of it. Well, there's nothing stuck under this chair. The Arne pension hasn't grown in our garden.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105207	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105208	Well, it's honest talk that you'd rather have the banks avoid this contribution, and then you can get rid of Arnepensionen. However, this shows very well the fairly clear political difference between our two parties: we have a desire for people to retire before Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will only make arrangements for people who are So, it is precisely the case that people get some good years of retirement, even if they have had a long working life that started when Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen started in the first class and then they also have a good working life; that it is not only reserved for those like many of us in here who will have a working life with fruit arrangements and hot food in the canteen and raise-sunk tables, but that it is also for people who have stood in a slaughterhouse and done monotonous work for years that have been bakers, unskilled work, been on a construction site etc. If they vote Social Democrats, I am only happy, but we are not going to make it that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105254	Thank you for that worker romantic introduction to very hard work. There are a lot of people in this country who have a really, really hard job, and we have to be careful about that. And don't put this up like somebody in here doesn't want to take care of them. The reality is that the Social Democrats have introduced a scheme targeted at some people and pulled 10,000 people out of the labour market at a time when Danish business and also all public companies say: we need more labour. Then you make sure that there is less labour; then you make this Denmark can more or less the same 0.0, on which you then roughly fill the hole that you have made yourself. I do not think it is responsible in a situation that is as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105337	The next brief remark is from Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105338	Minimum standards are a matter of heart for the SF, and I am proud to see that we have ensured that minimum standards are now being put out by our small people in day nurseries and kindergartens, so there is enough time for our children to develop, to thrive, and there is also time for hugs when you get upset. But I am worried because if there is a bourgeois majority in Denmark, I understand that Conservatives want to abolish minimum standards. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur: will the Left stand on the side of children and stick to minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105421	On the left, we are always on the side of the children. Does this mean unequivocally that minimum standards are the only evidence of whether they are being applied? I think that may be a slightly simplified way of looking at it. However, as the rapporteur knows, we have also supported minimum standards when it came to funding under this year's financial law. We have no plans to remove that right now. I just think this is a slightly simplified way of looking at the problem. One thing is to make minimum standards, so we must also ensure that some people can actually go to work in the individual institutions. So I also think it is essential that we give the institutions the space to do their job in the way they think it is most appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105510	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105511	After all, the minimum standards ensure a bottom below the number of adults and trained staff who must be in the day institutions. But am I to understand that the rapporteur here offers a guarantee that there will be a bourgeois majority in Denmark, will the Left stand firm to stand on the side of children and maintain minimum standards when Conservatives press for their abolition?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105534	I would say that in the Left we do not currently have any plans to roll back the minimum standards. I just think that we should look at how we actually set our institutions free. Could we not give more freedom to run these children's institutions in the way we think appropriate? Could we not show greater confidence in the professionalism of employees and managers so that they can drive it here in the way they find most responsible? There I sometimes think we love to legislate in here, we love to set some very, very restrictive frameworks. It may well be that the people who actually work with it are better at it than we are. I think they often are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105612	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105615	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. After all, it is no secret that the Left has been advocating for a long time that we should abolish the EU defence reserve. That is why I would like to hear, now that we know about the actions under way, that is to say the seven actions under way, in which, among other things, we are aware of them. It is about protecting the EU's trading and resource interests in Africa, i.e. uranium in the Sahel, gas in Mozambique, how many of the actions it is actually the Left's ambition that we should have supported, because they have been known for a long time. Is it the view of the Left that all the actions under the military dimension of the European Union are some that Denmark should support and contribute to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105700	Thank you for the question. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, this vote for me is about what kind of country we want to be. We will be a country that per year. Automatically puts us on the sidelines and says that under no circumstances will we be there, no matter how noble the purpose is, or will we be a country that says that we would actually like to have the opportunity to choose whether we want to participate, whether we do not want to participate, or whether we want to put down a block altogether? At present, there are seven missions by the European Union. It is clear that we cannot be in more places than we have the manpower to do than we have the equipment to do. However, the three missions that I find interesting from a Danish perspective and in which I think we should have participated and should have taken part, if we have the opportunity and the capacity, are •Atalanta, which is fighting pirates in the Horn of Africa; that is what the name is; I do not remember that which lies in Bosnia and was the replacement of the NATO mission in which we participated and which was replaced by the European Union in 2004, and that is the arms embargo against Libya. I think all three are missions which have a huge interest in Denmark and in which, if we have the profits, we should take part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105811	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105811-2	I fully agree that this is about what kind of country we want to be. That is why I am a little surprised that the Left then says that they want to take part in those actions, because that is what we are doing, among other things. to be able to secure resource interests in Africa, and I think that is not something that Denmark should contribute to. But if we take, for example... This action in Libya is, of course, an action in which the German Government has said that it does not want to participate because it would not allow German soldiers to contribute to human rights violations. Is it therefore the view of the Left that Danish soldiers can well participate and contribute to human rights violations in the action in Libya?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105849	That will probably not be a super-surprising answer: No, I do not believe that Danish soldiers should contribute to human rights violations. I believe that the best way to avoid human rights violations is by deploying Danish soldiers to train the soldiers who are precisely committing this kind of violation. And I think I have both greater respect for and possibly a greater insight into the level of Danish soldiers in this area and have more confidence in them than Mr. Peder Hvelplund has. I think it is a good idea for Danish soldiers to help train soldiers around the world to avoid human rights violations. And I believe our best protection against this type of violation is to be part of the communities where we are not today, including European defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105933	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523105936	Thank you. After all, the Prime Minister outlined the economic situation and also the fact that things are actually going very well, but that we still have quite major challenges, especially in relation to the lack of labour, and I know that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and I share the view that we need much more labour and that we also need to open up more international labour. After all, we were on our way to that, and I think that both Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and I can see on both sides of the middle that it can't be done if we don't make these agreements over the middle. And it may well be said that in some way it has been run in the fence in the reform negotiations there, certainly for many reasons, but at least I find that there is a disagreement between us. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has committed himself to a solution in which to choose between the countries within which companies can obtain labour. So what I want to ask is if there's a way out of it. Is there a way that we can actually solve the problem now that the Socialists have actually changed their position, so there is an opportunity for an agreement across the middle so that we can get some more international labour for our businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110051	Thank you for the leading question, and I think there is. Because we are currently in a rather strange situation where the government has put forward its proposal, for which there is no majority, and the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party have put forward our proposal, for which there is no incomprehensible majority either. And then the two parties there face each other, while Danish industry stands and says that they need more international labour. For me, the solution would be for the Minister of Finance, whom I have asked him to sit down a sea of times, to call the parties in and say: well, what are the screws we can screw on so that everyone can see themselves in this agreement? I think you should do that. I think we owe it to the Danish business community, but of course it is just as clear that I am not going to accept a situation where such a take-it or leave-it offer is being presented. That's not how you conduct politics. It's not negotiating, it's dictating.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110150	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110151	But these negotiations have also taken place. So the question is this: Mr Ellemann-Jensen is also prepared to move away from what is on the table from him and those parties, for which there is no majority. That is also what is important. If we're gonna make a deal, Mr. Simpson... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also be willing to move.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110214	I am very sorry for the use of the word too. But it is true that I am so willing to move, and we are very prepared to do this. This means that the Minister of Finance needs to get his act together, looked at the calendar and called for this meeting, and I have been calling for this since February. Because we ended up in a situation where two parties have their own proposals, and then the government is pissed that we will not accept theirs and say that you have to put it in the Chamber and then we have to vote it down. But you could also listen to the needs of the Danish business community... we do that and then screw those variables. And what is it? There is a list of countries which is duration, there is an amount limit which is five to six different variables. Let's meet, let's screw them up, and let's make a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110258	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110301	Now, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen is well known for his very pro-European views, and it is therefore not a great surprise that he is going to dismantle the reservations and hope that the first one will fall here on 1 June. In addition, the Left is, of course, a party which, in a broad sense, is very much involved in the EU debate, and I note that as many as two of Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's party colleagues have participated in this think tank or conference on the future of Europe. I would also like to know which of the things about the conference on the Europe of the future, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is dreaming about. Is it a common defence of the European Union, the abolition of the right of veto, more power for the European Parliament, a common minimum salary, gender quotas, a uniform tax, equal rules for the acceptance of asylum seekers, equal rules for accommodation of asylum seekers, forced distribution of asylum seekers, pan-European referendums, equal rules for elections to the European Parliament, an EU Constitution, the right to vote and stand for election for 16-year-olds? Well, are all the things that Mr. Kim Valentin and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen have been down in the European Union and have given their support here, including Mr Kjer Hansen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's EU views?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110413	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110415	No, I think that is what is called editorial austerity in the media, to take the Left, including the Left rapporteur, as an income for the things Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions here. We are very happy to take part in conferences to discuss where it is that Europe should move, where it is that EU cooperation should move. I think that even the rapporteurs who have been mentioned here can become even wiser, and we are happy to take part in that. And I know that sir... Morten Messerschmidt likes to present this scaremonger that the right of veto is being removed and that we have a common EU defence, etc. etc. So, listen, this is not going to happen, and that is not what we are voting on here on 1 June, and I hope that this scaremongering will be run a little in the garage now and that we can concentrate on what we really are voting on. Because we are voting on what a country Denmark should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110512	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110514	Well, now it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's former group chairman, Mr. Guy Verhofstadt, who has been in charge of this, so you can really say that there are real liberal fingerprints • okay, including the Radicals, there is whispered in this ear; right in EU policy, the Radicals and the Left are very, very close but I don't really think so, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen answers the question. So, what does he want from all of these things, which are elements of the wish list of what the future EU should be like? And if you're against it, what does Mr. Kim Valentin and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen made such an active effort to oppose the inclusion of these recommendations in the report?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110550	What the individual rapporteurs have done at a conference that I have not participated in, I would recommend that the rapporteur ask those concerned instead of me. Then I would say that, yes, Guy Verhofstadt is part of the Liberal Group, but if we are finally going to point out who is in whose group, then I am not sure that it is a competition that will come out to Mr Verhofstadt. Morten Messerschmidt's advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110617	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110621	Thank you. Now there is so much talk about the good shape of the Danish economy, and I am, in fact, deeply concerned about the Danish economy. Because when we look out in 2023, 2024, there are no growth rates that are impressive, nor indeed for employment, and we can see that people's economy in the private economy is also having tough times right now. One of the things I cannot understand at all is why Danish families of children must drive in safer cars than our German neighbours and Swedish neighbours, with the high taxation that we have in relation to the registration tax on cars. It simply does not make sense on any parameters. So my question to the Left is, if the Left, should we be so lucky that the Danes will give us confidence and power to change, then will help to get rid of this registration fee on cars once and for all, so also people who live outside Copenhagen and Aarhus, where there is no metro and where there are no buses every five minutes, actually have an opportunity to get back to work and make a family life work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110727	I very much agree with Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that we must do something to strengthen mobility in Denmark, and that it must and must be so that, even if you live outside the subway, you can still get to work. Because there are many families who depend on not just having one car, but having two cars, to make it all hang together, especially if you have to pick up the children, who have been forcibly distributed by the government, and you live far away in the opposite corner of the municipality. Well, this doesn't make it any easier. For me and for us, the most important thing is to lighten the tax at work so that it pays better to work and so that the people who are going to invest in these vehicles also have more to run with. So that's my first priority. It is not the case that, if we disregard CO2,
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110818	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110820	No, except when it comes to the cigarette charge. It's got the Left set up. But should I hear it in that way that the Left says that one would like to look at the registration fee and that it could also be the current tax? When it is important for us in the New Citizens, it is because it requires free choice. Instead of being told in here by the Folketing that you should decide with behavioral taxes, how people should live their lives, by removing a tax, you give the freedom back to people to make a personal choice about what it is for some cars that are best suited to their lives, as long as it is not just electric cars, petrol cars or hybrid cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110904	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110906	I think we share the view that the more freedom and the more opportunities the Danes get, the better our society will be, and the better each of us can contribute to our own lives and indeed to the community as well, and that is why I say that we want to lighten the tax at work so that we have the opportunity to prioritise. And whether it is a car or something else you want to prioritize must be up to the individual. It's just not like that today, and I'm sure that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen agrees that you have a really free choice here, because the possibility of using a green car, i.e. one you throw in a outlet when you get home, is quite limited. There are large areas of Denmark where finding a barnstand is not something you just can do. So I think that concern must also be addressed in order to ensure free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110954	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523110957	That's 5%. There is no new Left Government on the registration fee. Laughter I've done something today that I don't usually do, because I've been sitting around looking at polls. Some have arrived both from Voxmeter and Epinion, and they both show a very, very good progress to the Liberal Alliance, even the Left too. In Epinon's poll, you can go in and sort it out, so you can see how the electorate is with the voters under 34 years of age • the young people, it is called • and there you can see a massive decline in social democracy and a massive rise in the Liberal Alliance. And then I just want to know if Mr. Kevin... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also believes that this is a sign that young people in Denmark in particular are tired of a government that always comes with injunctions and bans and raised fingers of points, but actually want the freedom to take responsibility and whether it can be an explanation for the fact that we are seeing the electoral migrations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111050	I just like it so much when Mr. Alex Vanopslagh is inspired by SF's chairman in relation to critical issues. Firstly, I would like to thank you for the examination of the opinion polls, which I have not seen by their very nature, because we are not reading this kind of thing, and then I would like to say what my very clear impression is when I move around the whole country, and that is what I am doing quite a lot at the moment. Most of the upper secondary schools have gone on study holidays, but I should like to say that there were some of them who were visited before it came to this. My clear picture here is that youth is liberal, and thank God for it. It is not all of them who know, so we have an information work to do. I would say that when we ask the young people who are best at choosing where they are going in high school, whether it is the government or them, most of them answer: I am. Then you can congratulate them, congratulate you, you're not a Social Democrat, and that's the best thing that's happened since you were born. Have a nice day. Laughter
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111146	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111148	I'm looking forward to the election campaign. I actually believe that all Danes of all ages should vote for a bourgeois party, and that even does not have to be my party. I think that one of the most important tasks at all, when we get a blue majority when that day comes, is to ensure more free choice in the welfare, especially for the elderly in Denmark. They must be able to opt out of being mistreated like Else at Kongsgården and be able to choose a free nursing home if that is what they want. I might as well say this as it is that the Liberal Alliance is going to stand firm in relation to a blue majority. But I really just want to hear sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, whether it is also a top priority for the Left to give the Danes as much freedom of choice as possible when it comes to core welfare, and to stop the struggle that we have seen from the government against the private welfare providers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111232	I would say that it will be a very, very open gate, as Mr. Alex Vanopslagh runs down there. When we form a blue government, that government must be measured by whether the Danes will have more freedom and more opportunities. We must ensure that more people are masters of their own lives; we must ensure that there is something to choose from; we must ensure that there is a free nursing home in all Danish municipalities; we must ensure that older people can choose for themselves who should come into their homes, what food they should eat, without anyone, however well-meaning, coming and dictating their lives after they have lived a lifetime where they have been allowed to decide for themselves. We must stick to that, and that is what I mean when I say that the election here is about who decides in your life the Social Democrat or you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111316	The next brief remark is to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111319	We are looking into a future where there are more children and where there are more older people, and we can also see that municipal budgets are being pressured. That is why it was very nice in the last election campaign to hear one of these very good electoral promises, and to feel an electoral promise without any conditions, namely that the then President of the Left, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, would strengthen welfare until 2025 by 69 billion. kr. I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen: Can the Danes be sure that it remains the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111401	The Danes can be absolutely sure that when more children and more elderly people arrive, the economy must also keep up. It has been interpreted by the government as having to vote for the government's so-called welfare law, which, as you know, runs directly into the ditch. What we were trying to improve the welfare law with was a commitment that the money was there before it was used. I know it's boring and I know it's technical, but it's also super responsible. We stand by that. We make the money before we spend it, and then we stand by the money having to keep up when there are more older people and when there are more children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111438	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111439	Let's turn the story back a little to the 2019 election campaign, because that gave Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, President of the Left, an unconditional election promise to strengthen welfare by 69 billion. kr. Until 2025. What's changed since mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen could make the unconditional promise? The money was there then, and the money is there today so what has changed since Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will not give the bell-clear guarantee that his predecessor could give the Danes in 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111515	What's changed? For example: Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen resigned from the Left. But listen, I'm gonna make this promise, too. What I am saying is that the economy must keep up when there are more children and when there are more elderly people, and I can assure the rapporteur that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen also, in his capacity as chairman of the Left, did not believe that this was the case, completely uncontested by whether the money was there or not. The prerequisite for everything we do, and all we say in the Left, is to pursue a responsible economic policy. That is why we will not vote for the Social Democrats being allowed to spend money, whether they are there or not. It's old-fashioned, and it's responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111558	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111602	Thank you. This is a follow-up to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund's question about Arnepensionen, i.e. the right to withdraw earlier. The Conservative Chairman, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has described it as pure socialism. Is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen agreed with that choice of words?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111624	No, but I think it's a wrong way to deal with it. I think we should have made an improvement on the senior pension. I think we should have done something that was targeted people who are or are at risk of being worn out. I think it's too square a way to look at it. I simply disagree with the solution. I fully acknowledge the problem, but I just disagree with the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111651	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111653	So we did not get a clear answer on whether Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen agreed with Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Søren Pape Poulsen says it's pure socialism. But I can then go ahead and ask if Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen agrees with Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Søren Pape Poulsen in that retiring earlier on Arnepensionen is retiring for other people's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111711	Yes, it is by nature. I mean, it's a lot of things we do. All of us sitting in here are sitting here for other people's money. I'm embarrassed about that every day. I think that in connection with all the joys and all the benefits that we enjoy in our welfare society, there should be that little note on which it says: Remember that some have actually gone to work to allow you to get this benefit or check. I think we should bear that in mind, among other things. We, too, sit in here for other people's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111742	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111745	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The citizens' freedom to decide for themselves how life is best lived, said the rapporteur from the platform. That is also true SF policy. That is why I am just so surprised that the Left is only concerned about speaking freedom of choice between private and public when it comes to what is best for the citizen and how we put the citizens best. But the situation right now is that it is easier to work in private hospitals, and there it is also easy to attract a lot of staff, so they are being picked up from the emergency departments of the public hospitals, which are so pressured today that they find it very difficult to get time for those patients who need more than just a knee operation. Does the Left really think that this is a wise way to organize the hospital? Is this the best way we've done this? And what does that mean for the most vulnerable patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523111857	I simply thought that the ideological struggle against the free hospitals had ended, but it is not, I have to understand. Here a few years ago I was hit by two disc-shooting prolapses in my throat. By the way, I cannot recommend that. And because of corona, the investigation court, the treatment guarantee was suspended for a period of time, but I am so privileged that I could go to a private hospital. I paid for it myself, and then I had surgery. That option should not only be given if you can afford to pay for yourself, and that option must then be extended to all Danes. Ventelists have been violently combated because of this treatment guarantee, and I think that is quite clearly positive, and I think we should spread it to other areas too. Then you can call it near hospitals, or you can call it health houses, Medina or Madonna, it's the same thing. I just think that we should ensure that we get the treatment as close to the citizen as possible, because it can make a difference to those who are under pressure of emergency reception and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112009	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112011	In the ideal world, I actually agree, but the problem is that we have too many patients. After all, waiting lists indicate that there is too little staff and when there is too little staff, we cannot treat all patients at once. It is easy at the moment for private hospitals to recruit staff for the easy tasks, where patients return home after work is done, and where they only work Monday to Friday, but this undermines the staff standards in the emergency departments where the most vulnerable patients are. It is free choice for those who fail only one thing, but it is not free choice for the most vulnerable patients, and it puts the staff left in the public hospitals at risk. Is enterprise policy really so important in ensuring the most equal welfare of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112057	No, what's important to us is the patients. It's because we put the human being before the system, and it's because I'm not buying one on that obsession that it's supposed to be state, otherwise it's a bit of hay. In fact, I believe that private providers have something to offer. I can say that my own experience with the private hospitals is that it was really, really good to come to a study on Saturdays so it is not true what the rapporteur says and it was really good to be operated on, and I can say that I certainly did not go home the same day. Don't do things so black and white, let us now make sure that we have two things that can complement each other, because it also gives us much better opportunities to free the public sector if there is a private sector that they can be inspired by.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112137	The next brief remark is to Mrs Paulin, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112140	Thank you. The last time the Left was in government, a number of the important climate objectives adopted by the former SR government were cancelled. This was the case, among other things. the then CO 2 The climate lost, but in turn brought the joy of the Danish People's Party as the then support party. The rapporteur will probably point out that the Left has since then left the unambitious climate policy, but there are other parties in the blue bloc that do not have that, for example. New citizens who did not want to be included in the agreement on the Climate Act and who, like the Left did in the old days, believe that the climate is too expensive. So my question is: if the rapporteur were one day to become Prime Minister, would New Citizens as a support party have an impact on climate policy? And would they be able to look forward to the same type of climate policy concessions that the Danish People's Party made last time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112240	I remember when I stood as political rapporteur for the then government party Left and used the Enhedslisten when I had to ask the Socialists something because a lot of crazy things had been proposed then I asked if it was their policy. I am not saying that New Citizens' policy in this area is insane. But listen, it's as if the government sees the green transition as a necessary evil, and you also have to assess this with whether you're red before you're green and how the color combination is now. Over on our side of the store, we are both green and blue at once, because that is what is required for the green transition to succeed. It is that it not only leaves a better planet for our children, but also leaves a stronger economy and a stronger welfare society for our children. So instead of the green transition having to be something to whip yourself with blood leeches every morning, it has to be something to say: This makes my life better and gives me more freedom and more opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112339	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112341	I think the rapporteur is a little out of the question. Today we have a situation in which New Citizens, a party that does not want to be included in the agreement on the Climate Act, have no influence on the climate policy that is being conducted here in the Folketing. Can the rapporteur guarantee that if it is one day the rapporteur who is Prime Minister, then it will continue to be the case that new citizens will not have an influence on climate policy? Can the rapporteur guarantee that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112407	I can guarantee what is Left's climate policy. I am standing here as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and not for a single blue block that would probably also go too far. That is why I am presenting the policy of the Left, which is fundamentally different from the left's climate policy on three points: we recognise that more money is needed if we want to achieve the green transition; we have an international outlook which means that we recognise that emissions that are moved abroad are still harmful to our planet; and then we have a recognition that the market is the best way to solve the green transition, because if some can make a profit, it will be solved by those who do the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112442	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112446	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur for Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said that we should listen to Danish business. That is why I have at least a call for another point in which the rapporteur could also listen a little to the business community. Because I assume that the Left agrees with me that we are facing significant challenges in terms of having skilled skilled skilled workers as engineers, IT specialists, scientific experts, both in order to solve some of the major challenges we face in relation to the green transition, but also in terms of growth and prosperity in our future. Companies need these competences, and as a country we need these competences. On top of that, the Left itself has helped to set a target of the Technology Pact that we must train 20%. More with these skills. But what does Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Of the full STEM training courses, is there a de facto ceiling on places? How, then, are we going to achieve the goal and secure the competences of the business community?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112558	There is no doubt that we need STEM training and those who go to them, not least, in the future. We also need more people to apply to vocational schools so that we can avoid an over-academisation which we do sometimes when it comes to green conversion. We therefore need all types of jobs to be filled in here. There we therefore have the view in the Left that you do not need to be educated in the big cities. It is not only there that you can train for green education. So many of these companies are outside the big cities. Now we saw that the Prime Minister was in Esbjerg here in the past week. There's a lot there. There is a Climate Torium in Struer. There are many companies which are therefore outside the big cities. Let us now ensure that they also have access to the labour they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112651	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112654	Oh, yeah. However, there are very few companies that win through the fact that we all have fewer competences in our country. How does the President-in-Office of the Left feel about DTU having to close 400 seats right now to skilled young people who are going to have skills that we need? Does the Left really think that we will be better off with those seats being closed down and closed down with the relocation agreement that has been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112725	I think it is important that we have a balance in this, a balance that ensures that you can train in different places in Denmark. This is not so much in the interests of the mobility of young people, because they will have to move to get the right training, but it is in relation to the needs of companies afterwards as regards the jobs to be filled afterwards. I think we should try to find that balance. On the other hand, the balance boom is, of course, the need to have some world-class educational institutions as well. Does that mean we've hit it one hundred percent spot on now? No, I'd like to discuss that. Well, let's take a look. Listen, we need to be able to offer education where they are needed without undermining the great, good institutions that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112809	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112812	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. After all, I have noticed that the Left has come back to the rule of law here lately in terms of transparency in the administration of justice and no political persecution. Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Now I would like to hear: how far does this legal certainty extend to the Left? I have just returned from Rwanda, a country where legal certainty is not exactly at the top of the agenda. There is certainly no openness in the administration of justice and there is much political persecution. At the same time, it is also a country to which the government is planning to send refugees. Then I just need to know if the government has the support of the Left for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112855	What we have been discussing so far in this Parliament is, of course, the very possibility for the government to reach an agreement, and we have supported that. In other words, I think there is some sense in preventing people from embarking on the perilous journey across the Mediterranean and in trying to combat traffickers as effectively as possible. Does this mean that Rwanda is a model society? No, not so far. Now I do not know the agreement that might be reached at some point by the government with Rwanda if it comes to that, but I am quite sure that every effort will be made by the government and now I am looking down at the minister in the area to ensure that legal certainty is in place, that human rights are respected and that we can be comfortable with such an agreement. I have not seen the agreement yet, and I do not think the Minister has, but of course that is what we must strive for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112945	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523112947	It is quite true that the agreement is not yet in place, but I have to say, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply. And I am surprised that, now that the Left has finally returned, I would say to the classic liberal values of openness in the administration of justice and no to political persecution, not only rejecting it blankly and saying that of course Denmark does not make any agreements with a country that treats political opponents in the way that political opponents are treated by Kagame's government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113028	I would like to say that I sometimes have a stomachache when it comes to the persecution of political opponents; I do not have to go to Rwanda for that. But listen, let's judge that deal when and if it comes. I mean, I'm not gonna stand up and say that we're not gonna be involved in this under any circumstances. What is interesting for us is to curb the trafficking in human beings that is taking place; to change the practice where only the most well-vended can move; and to reduce the risk of people drowning in the Mediterranean. Because I think it's quite horrible, cruel and tragic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113106	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113109	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. I think it is fair to say that Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is a little bit in his ace today with clever, clever remarks, and that is good; it is fun to be involved in it. Having said that, however, I think I should like to take up what was said at the outset, namely that there is a link being made from Mr Giscard d'Estaing. The side of Jakob Ellemann-Jensen between the Ukraine war, that is, Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine, and the fact that we are now going to the ballot box and we have to say yes to removing this defence reservation. I'd just like to hear, in case mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is completely factual and serious here in the Chair: is there one thing that will change that war in Ukraine if we lift our defence reserve in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113207	No, there is not, and that is not why we are going to vote. We are going to vote because our enemy has attacked a free country in Europe. I thought we should have this vote for 29 years. I've been against this reservation all the way through. I believe that this has hindered Denmark. Now we get the vote because there are other parties that have finally seen the light in my optics and because the world has changed. Our enemy is attacking into Europe. I find it difficult to see a better time in the history of European unity than now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113248	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113250	It's actually honest talk, this, much more honest talk than the talk from many others from the yes side who tell the Danes that now we can change a whole lot in Ukraine by removing this defence reservation. We can't. It doesn't matter if you're called Vladimir Putin, whether Denmark has a defence reserve or not. That is why I think we should also be too good to use the occasion, as it is, and as Mr Beyer de Ryke has said. In fact, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also started by saying that it is the Ukraine crisis that causes us to vote on 1 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113330	The rapporteur's postulate that there should be politicians on the 'yes' side telling us that the course of war in Ukraine will be affected by a 'yes' or 'no' vote is, of course, quite a strawman. I have simply not heard anyone say that, but I would be happy if I were mistaken. I have simply not heard anyone say that. When we come to this vote, it is, after all, an end to the national compromise, which is the end of Putin's invasion, and to claim otherwise would be wrong. The national compromise is reached approx. 14 days after Putin's invasion. The reason why we five parties are joining forces is that invasion. So, of course, there's a connection. But that doesn't mean Putin says: Well, now Denmark has abolished its defence reserve; now I pack my knapsack and go home. Unfortunately, it was just so easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113417	The next brief remark is to Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113421	Thank you. In the SF, we are extremely concerned about ensuring minimum rights for children and young people, and that is not least because we see an increasing dissatisfaction among children and young people. This applies to minimum standards, which my colleague Signe Munk asked about just now, but where, unfortunately, we could not get a guarantee from the Left that they will not be abolished if we come to power after elections, but that also applies to the class ceiling at school. We know that the class ceiling for how many children are in the class is crucial for children's learning. In the last finance law we had the class ceiling changed from 28 to 26 students, it's good for the children's well-being, it's good for learning, and it's good for the tranquillity of the classroom. Does the Left agree with the SF that a lower class ceiling is a good thing, and is it prepared to keep this lower class ceiling of 26 if you were to get power after a choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113521	We focus a little more on responsibility for power, but otherwise I can say that we in the Left have no plans to change the class ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113531	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113535	So you want to maintain the class ceiling that we have just changed from 28 to 26, after a choice, in other words give a guarantee that you will not put more children into classes, even if there will be more children in the future if you have to be responsible after a choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113547	Listen to me. We do not currently have any plans to change this and, as I also said to Mrs Signe Munk before, I think we sometimes become too rigid and too governing from here. We should be looking instead of managing it, and instead of constantly telling how to run institutions, how to run schools, let us set the people who do so free, and let us believe that they have thrown themselves into that life course because they will make a difference to our children because they will care for them because they will teach them to spell because they will teach them all the things we tranquilized parents don't have time to do. If we show them the confidence to solve things in their way and measure whether citizens are satisfied, whether they are children, pensioners or what they are, then I think we are going further, I think people will be happier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113632	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The 45 minutes allocated to short remarks have now gone exactly. There is no further brief comment to be made to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523113650	Would we have believed our own eyes five or seven years ago if we had been introduced to the headlines of the last three years? Had we imagined a global pandemic or war in Europe? I doubt it. It has been the lot of the current government and this Parliament's lot to control Denmark for more than 2 years with a global pandemic and now war in Ukraine and a serious security policy situation. The threat to our democracy, our freedoms, our security and peace and the threat to our economy have not been greater for many, many years. On top of that, the conditions of our existence are threatened by climate change and a gigantic biodiversity crisis. We have to go back a long way to finding a Danish government and a Parliament that has faced such great, fundamental challenges at once. So just a silent thank you to the government first and foremost, especially to the Prime Minister of the leadership. And now, in the wake of the epidemic and under pressure from the war, many Danes are hit hard by the rising prices: the price of petrol for the car, the heating bill and the recognition, the amount of the credit card receipt that gets bigger, while the content of the shopping basket gets smaller. We must help those who are hit hardest and who already have the least room for manoeuvre in their economy. An incredibly strong Danish economy, a historically high employment, a climate law, a historic roadmap for a CO2 It's just to mention some of that, because the list is long. But we are far from achieving it. For the many children and young people who are miserable, all the children and young people who had a tremendous dive under the corona and who are struggling with the fear of the climate crisis and now also with unrest over war and perhaps more refugees, must be picked up. There is a psychological and practical backlog after corona, and that is why we must and must have a large, ambitious psychiatry plan in place, and children and young people's well-being must be top priority in the coming years. Prevention, PPR, psychological assistance, early investigation, a strengthened psychiatry, yes, the whole area must be reviewed and provided with resources. So thank you very much to the many organizations and relatives who, together with the SF, have maintained the pressure on the government... we must maintain that pressure until the government delivers. The fight by the Ukrainians against Putin's criminal war machine makes the fight for democracy, freedom and peace live. Russia's fall into fascism reminds us of the importance of democracy, freedom of assembly, freedom of the press, freedom of expression. The war reminds us of the importance of unity and cooperation with other democratic states and the value of minority protection, lggt+ rights, equality, cultural liberation, individual freedom. Ukraine would not have been attacked if they had been members of the EU and NATO. The tragedy in Ukraine makes it quite clear why Denmark must be fully united with the countries with which we, after all, share both values and common destiny, and we must be prepared to defend those values, defend that freedom, defend tolerance, defend peace, defend open society. That is really what we are voting on on 1 June, and that is why a broad circle of parties across the right and left in Danish politics together made a national compromise on Denmark's future defence and security policy. I can therefore only be thrilled with the prospect that Sweden and Finland are now entering NATO, so that the gravity of the special Nordic values is further strengthened. But underneath it all, under all the uncertainty and insecurity lies the climate and biodiversity crisis as the scariest and most threatening. The very foundations of our existence are threatened when bees disappear and our plants cannot be pollinated when climate change destroys areas like desert or lets cities and agriculture and habitats flood with water masses. I'm afraid we're heading into the perfect storm. If we take the African continent as an example, the countries are largely still plagued by political instability and totalitarian regimes. Many African countries suffer from growing Islamisation and civil wars, many countries are economically in the pocket of totalitarian regimes such as China and Russia, conditions for women, sexual minorities and religious minorities have in many places been cramped. Many African states are struggling with growing population and cannot feed their populations, and the war in Ukraine and the global food crisis will further weaken countries globally with low purchasing power. We are therefore facing enormous problems on the African continent, and it will soon knock on Europe's door with renewed force in terms of flows of refugees, migration flows, Islamisation, hunger disasters. Denmark and Europe cannot therefore look the other way, because soon it will hit us. The phase we are entering right now seldom creates the best climate for results and cooperation, but I would therefore like to advocate that in this and the coming Parliament we can unite on some common principles that, whatever the colour of the government, we will commit ourselves together to the fight against the greatest challenges we face. Point 1: That Denmark should be a leader in the fight against climate change and that we actively assist the world, including the poor part, in that fight. Point 2: That Denmark must continue to be a leader in combating the biodiversity crisis that the world is experiencing right now and sharing our knowledge. Paragraph 3: That Denmark is closely associated with our allies, both in the Nordic countries, in the EU and in NATO, on democracy and civil rights, peace, security, cooperation and diplomacy. Point 4: That Denmark should be a beacon in humanitarian, technological, civil aid to developing countries. Point 5: Denmark must be a leader in democratic transparency, openness, good governance, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, legal certainty and equality. Point 6: Denmark must be a leader in research, training in close cooperation with everything from entrepreneurs to the very large Danish companies and with knowledge institutions abroad. Point 7: That Denmark should continue its digitalisation and be a leader in cybersecurity and ensure digital security for our children and our young people. Point 8: Denmark must be the leader in developing and securing the opportunities for the individual Dane's democratic influence and individual freedom, including in the workplace, and increasing equality and cohesion. Paragraph 9, the last point: Denmark must be a leader in the successful integration and inclusion of new citizens with democracy, citizenship, participation in society, employment, education and equality as a guide. Everyone here in Tinget wants the best, I have no doubt about that, and of course we will also disagree on something in the future, but can we not reach each other anyway? Perhaps we could give the Danes a real experience that we're pulling in the same direction with these 9 guidelines, that we can create positive change together when it really matters, and that applies now. My example with Africa has not been chosen by chance, because it is going to push us, and it is about migrants, refugees and Islamists, so we have decided to pay 2%. in our defence of meeting NATO requirements, but it does not free us from investing in the sustainable and peaceful development of the African continent. It's as simple as that. Because we think this way, we just put roadside bombs out to ourselves, and if we do not help the poor countries of the world with climate technology from the top shelf, climate change hits us in a different way at another time. If we do not invest in our children and young people's education and make some of them leading scientists, we are weakened by the medicine of the future, the technologies of the future or the thing that just makes everyone's life easier and more enjoyable and less polluting. If we do not ensure our nature and our drinking water, our biodiversity, we will be gambling with the living conditions of future generations, and if we do not stand together in defending our democracy, our freedom, our peace, our equality, our freedom of expression, all our core values, then what are we here for? Let us raise our eyes a little, let us use the crises that were rampant on all of us right now to dare to look coherently at the challenges and to dare to create the necessary changes that the complex of challenges presents. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523114657	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. It will now be the case that there will be room for probably five sets of brief comments to the rapporteur, and then a lunch break will be called, and then the rapporteur's series will continue after lunch. It's just a service information. The first brief remark to be made to the rapporteur is that of Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523114716	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur for pointing out the many very complex things that we have to deal with in our political generation. One of the prerequisites for solving these many complex issues, which are of course affecting each other, is to apologize if I simplify the fact that there is advice. And if you are to ensure that there is advice, you also have to make some decisions along the way. So I just want to know whether the rapporteur recognises that the prerequisite for us to be able to afford an increase in our defence budget to 2%. of our bnp, is that we continue to index the life expectancy of the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523114804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523114806	It is true that all prerequisites in the Danish economy are of course among others. is based on the welfare agreement that SF is not part of. I recognise that, and I can see that otherwise we will end up in a hammock effect by 2030-2032. However, when I look with concern at the increase in retirement age, it is because I do not believe that we can all work until we die, and that is why we have not been part of the welfare agreement. But I recognise the economic premise, but one can only choose to do it in a different way, because it is, after all, a question of labour supply. One could choose to find the job offer by letting some of the many who are part-time, as the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech, come up full time. It is, after all, an example of how to increase work supply in a different way, and that is what is required for that calculation. However, I recognise that right now it is the welfare agreement that allows us to achieve the 2% target. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523114854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523114856	I do not think anyone has actually proposed that everyone should work until they die. It is not my impression that that is what is the content of the welfare agreement, so I think it may have been put a little at the forefront. After all, the purpose of the welfare agreement is precisely to say: listen to us when we get older, we will also have to retire later. That is why I am asking whether the SF recognises that coherence. I fully understand that there are other things that can be done to increase the supply of work, and how beneficial it would be if the government did so, or if the SF pushed the government to do so, it would be fine. But does the SF recognise that there is this connection and that it doesn't add up if we just say that for people of a certain age, the retirement age will never rise again, no matter how old we may become?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523114942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523114944	One is the spreadsheets, the other is the reality. Well, I have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that sir... According to the spreadsheets, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and I can work until we are 72, 74 or 75 years old, depending on how much retirement age should increase and the conditions for the welfare agreement are not, of course, that there is a ceiling; it will continue to increase if life expectancy increases. I understand that very well. But this means that my mother, who entered the labour market when she was 14 years old, really should have worked almost at any time if she had been born today because there are, in fact, young people who enter the labour market at a relatively young age, and there I think there is a premise built into the welfare agreement that does not last, and here there is an advantage to Arnepensionen, which I can hear that, unfortunately, the Left does not want to back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115025	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115029	Thank you. I spoke earlier to the Social Democrat rapporteur about this gas pipeline to Lolland, and the rapporteur also replied that more biogas is needed in it. So just to anticipate the answer, I would like to say that I know that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is very pleased about that. But we also need that for other things, just as we need the workforce that the SF is involved in the decision on, in relation to the need to create a new gas pipeline for Lolland. Now new calculations have been made showing that electrification will be cheaper. Will Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr be involved in recalculating this or even getting it calculated? 'Cause the climate minister wasn't interested in it at the time so we can see if there is actually a better solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115111	I think it should be borne in mind that even now we are laying the foundations for an increase in electrification precisely in this area, i.e. for the sugar factories they are already electrifying a lot. So it is not only that they are dependent on gas that I would just like to emphasise, because that made the questioner almost sound like it. But the prerequisite for their production is also in the future that there will be gas in production. There will also be in other companies in Denmark, we need to be aware of this. I would like to go into a regime where we will not need gas at all and where we can also talk about electrification. And I will not deny that one can look at it; one just has to be aware that precisely this gas pipeline is the Minister's responsibility, and that is why it is ultimately up to the Minister to decide what the Minister will do. But I'm kind of prepared for us to look at everything, and the more creative we can be, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115202	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115203	I am very pleased about the latter, because the SF is part of the agreement and can therefore help push for it to be changed. And that is fair enough, I think, to say that there is a new situation. This isn't about the other companies that are also dependent on gas. This is about a decision you have made about establishing a completely new gas pipeline to Lolland for many, many millions of kroner instead of electrifying and instead of using the manpower we now need to expand the power grid to build the new gas pipeline. I think that and that is also what I hear from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that it seems a little off when we make big decisions about being completely independent of gas, that a new gas pipeline should then be built right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115250	I don't think we'll ever get into a situation where we're completely independent of gas... it just has to be biogas. That is the point, which is why I am pleased that the SF and the Left have had a pretty good alliance in the energy negotiations exactly in terms of pushing for more biogas. So I do not agree with the questioner that we will be completely independent of gas at any time. But I agree that we must be independent of natural gas. SF wants us to be that already from 2027, and the more we can push, the better. And let us look at whether there are any concrete investments that we need to make wiser or better, but I think that what we must constantly be aware of is that we must also ensure that those companies that cannot do without gas have an opportunity to do so via biogas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115329	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115331	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her speech. Fortunately, there are a great many things we agree on, that is, investments in climate aid, in the green transition, in a low and equal wage increase to the welfare professionals. We need to invest in our young people; we need to invest in a psychiatry action plan; we need to invest in health. We have very, very many tasks in which we agree that we need to invest. We are currently facing economic negotiations which will define the level of welfare for both municipalities and regions. That is why I am a little concerned that the SF has helped to reach an agreement where we take 18 billion. kr. Well, isn't that a challenge for the SF, in terms of how we should ensure that there is funding for it? We have just presented a health plan in which we invest 17 billion. kr. in our common health, because that is what we can see is necessary. But it's hard for SF to find the money because you've tied yourself to another deal. Is this not a huge challenge for the investments needed in the green transition, in welfare and in the reduction of inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115438	But it is not the case that the money we drop for defence is some that I could use for welfare. The only reason we actually have the money for defence that we have now found is because we have changed the budget law. I could not get the Left or the Conservatives or anyone else to change the budgetary conditions for spending the money in welfare. Believe me, we'd like to do that in the SF. So that's why, first of all, it's not the extra money you could have just put in all sorts of places. Secondly, I would like to say that I think that investing in our defence makes sense. I think it makes sense to ensure that the soldiers we send are properly equipped, that they have the things they need. It is the case of ammunition, it is the case of safety vests, it is the case of ensuring that they actually feel safe when they go out in the service. One of the things we have been concerned with and will fight for in the defence negotiations is to ensure that when they come home they are treated properly as the veterans they are. And the interesting thing is that I have several times heard Enhedslisten propose various elements of defence that actually require more money, for example. an investment in cybersecurity, an investment in the Arctic, an investment in the Baltic Sea. But that requires more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115552	Sir. Peder Hvelplund for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115554	But now the challenge is that we cannot simply change the budget law once again, and then 18 new billions will arise. Well, the problem here is that all the room for manoeuvre is spent on investments in defence. One might also have chosen to say: we have a number of tasks to do; it is necessary to invest in defence; there are some that seem important, but there are also some that think it is actually important to invest in the green transition, in welfare and in the reduction of inequality. SF has chosen to say here: we change the budget law, we take the entire proceeds and we use it for defence purposes. Is that not a slightly biased priority, because it gives the impression that this is the only priority? And they say that the other thing we have to sort out, and that we're gonna find the money for it, don't worry. I'm just worried that SF is now taking all the room and spending it on defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115637	Now it is not true that we are taking all the room. Well, the room will be among other things. used for the demographic challenge, it is being used for minimum ratings, it is being used for class ceiling cases that SF has fought through and that we are really happy about on behalf of our children and young people. So it is not true that we have spent all the room on it. In addition, I would like to say that there are things in which we must invest that concern our defence. Today we have two inspection ships sailing, for example. in Greenland, and I feel that it makes real sense in a world that is getting more worried, and with the Russians who are roaring out there, that we can make sure that the border we have for the Russians is a place where we can actually invest. I think we have a duty to do that. This is about defence, and I know that Enhedslisten and SF disagree because we are concerned about our defence; we are concerned that we can also protect the Danish borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115726	There is room for a last brief remark before a meal break is called, and that is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115736	Thank you. And thank you for a good and committed speech. I would like to ask one question which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr did not just mention, but which I am sure concerns her anyway, namely our elderly. Next year, the free choice for our elderly can celebrate the 20th anniversary of 20 years, when our elderly have had the opportunity to choose for themselves who should come and provide home help, personal care, practical help, etc. In fact, almost four out of ten Danes who receive home help today choose to do so. After all, the government has made welfare agreements here, where a number of municipalities have been given the opportunity, like being freed. Right now the Folketing is negotiating that it should be spread out, so that all municipalities should be able to apply for it. Today, it is not a so-called fence stake that free elections must last when the municipalities are set free in this area. Will the SF help to ensure that the guarantee our elderly have had for 20 years, which guarantees them the possibility of having an influence on who will come into their homes, must of course also remain when this is spread out to the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115835	Actually, I'm not sure we will. Because I think that what is at the heart of the discussion we have about the elderly area is also that the municipalities can offer it, so that you can offer local information about what makes a great deal of sense in relation to the elderly in your area, and there may well be a variety of offers that the municipality can make. I think that the elderly should have the opportunity to influence their own situation, but I am not sure that it is necessarily the free choice between a private and a public supplier that is crucial. I think that it will mean something for the elderly, that they are sure that there will be enough home help, that it is the right home help, that they know who they are, that we can arrange for some permanent teams out there. I think that means a lot more to the elderly. But perhaps we could also give the municipalities the opportunity to have influence here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115924	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523115926	It is, of course, a liberating honest answer, but also an answer with which I simply disagree. But that is also what is wonderful in politics, so there must be room for us to disagree with respect for each other. But surely it must be the consideration of the elderly and their degrees of freedom and their ability to adapt as they please, which is important and not the way the municipality plans. One cannot argue that there is really free choice if they can choose between the offers of the municipality and the municipality. We have seen, for example, that private actors have been very good at ensuring that it is the same employee who comes into the elderly's home. The municipal authorities have been inspired by this in several places, but there they have taken the lead in the private sector. Does the rapporteur not recognise that private individuals also have something that the public can learn from and take inspiration from?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523120007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523120009	Yeah, I think the private stuff does a lot of interesting things around. As far as the treatment of drugs in Denmark is concerned, I can see that it is mainly private people who have to do with it. So I don't have that dogmatic relationship about whether it's private or public. But I just want to say that for me it's also about spending the money wisely, and if we only have one bag of money and we know that by pooling the money we can provide an even better care for the elderly... I think you can do that in many places... I actually want you to do that. I can see that in the City of Copenhagen, which has taken the lead by dropping all the stuff about having your smartphone with you, taking time and everything else, you have actually got a better care for the elderly, and you have taken care of fast teams in many places. Perhaps that is the way forward, but I would not want to stand in here and say that one model fits everywhere and all municipalities. That's exactly what we were supposed to set free with these agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523120057	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I shall now suspend the sitting. It will resume today at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130004	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue with brief remarks to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the SF, and the next brief remark is from Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130029	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says in her speech that many things have gone well over the last three years, when the SF has been part of the majority of the Folketing, including that a strong economy has been secured in the red majority. I would like to know whether Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr can confirm that the economy was strong already before the Red majority took office, and whether Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr can also confirm that if reference is made to the usual methods of calculation, which the SF also subscribed to at the time eight years ago when the SF was in government, then the government's policy and the policy of the Red majority did not contribute to a stronger economy in Denmark but, on the contrary, reduced economic room for manoeuvre. So, bnp everything else just got lower, as a result of pulling people out of the labour market and reducing opportunities to invest in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130127	We have the highest employment in Denmark right now. We have an economy that is strong, despite the fact that we have been through a serious crisis that the pandemic is, and if we look to our neighbouring countries, the rest of Europe, the economies are significantly worse than the Danish economy is. On the basis of this, I would say: yes, the Danish economy is strong right now. Could you have a stronger economy? In fact, I doubt that about the crises that are currently taking place in Europe. There's a war going on in Ukraine. We can risk getting back into another corona situation in the autumn. However, the way we have handled the crisis, I believe, has actually made Denmark have a strong economy. The fact that we have deliberately chosen an expansive fiscal policy, for example. to hold hands under Danish companies under corona, so that companies, after opening up again, have had the opportunity to start up again and are not closed, as we have seen in many other places in Europe, and thereby keep employment high, I think there are also decisions taken in this Parliament that have made the economy strong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130234	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130235	When I referred to the fact that the SF was in government eight years ago, it was quite conscious to point out that, at that time, we were still sticking to standard methods of calculation when answering a question from the opposition, and I would appeal to you to do so when we have a discussion in this Chamber. Because, according to standard accounting methods, there are economic conditions, and then there is what can be pumped up into the economy by borrowing for it etc., but it is not lasting. The recession is not one of its own faults, and what one borrows is not lasting; it is just temporary. When it comes to the structures of society, SF and the red majority have made the economy in Denmark worse. Will Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130315	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130317	I simply do not agree. I think we have just ensured that the Danish economy is strong, and I am also sticking to the usual methods of calculation, but you have to compare this here, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, with the countries around us. You cannot compare one to an economy today with when SF was in government last time, because we have a war in Ukraine and we have had a pandemic for nearly 3 years. So you can't make that comparison right now, but I agree with you that we should always stick to common methods of calculation. We do this in the SF, both when we sit in government and when we do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130353	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130401	Thank you. There has almost been a tradition that I always ask questions to the SF's rapporteur, and this is often a matter of pollution. I can say that to the rapporteur, too, will be what I am asking you today, because I think it may have been a little while ago that the SF rapporteur has shouted a little loudly in relation to the problems of pollution. Now I am thinking of some of the pollutions that have occurred over the last month around the country, i.e. the PFAS pollutions. Unfortunately, these pollutions are really toxic, they are carcinogenic and, unfortunately, there are a great many of them. So I would like to ask the SF's rapporteur: what does the SF have of plans in relation to dealing with the pollutions that are unfortunately spread throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130500	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. It is an established tradition that we are talking about soil pollution in the Chamber, and I am glad that there are also those in the Left who are aware of the soil pollution cases we have around Denmark, and there is no doubt that Mrs Anni Matthiesen is. I would like to say that the PFOS pollution, which we are seeing and which is problematic, and which, among other things, is a problem. found on military properties and other things, SF has asked several questions about, among others. to former Secretary of Defense, Trine Bramsen. I would say that after we have changed the Minister for Defence, there has probably been a bit of a hurry with a war in Ukraine and other things, but that is not the same as not having focused on it. We had already set aside money in our financial bill last year to clean up after these pollutions, and also thought that defence should contribute to this, and we will continue to focus on it because I agree with the rapporteur that this is problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130550	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130551	Thank you. One of the things that I know some of the municipalities are asking for is because you can say that the monkey is sitting right now on the shoulders of the municipalities is that some kind of national action plan is being drawn up on how we deal with this. In the end, I do not believe that the municipalities themselves can find the means for this, but there are also municipalities that are just groping up in relation to how to deal with it. Could making some kind of action plan be something that SF would support?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130627	I think it is a very good idea to make some sort of checklist or whatever it may be, and that the Danish EPA could go in to look at how to handle such cases. We can then discuss where it will then be financed. Yeah, I get that. This is something the municipalities cannot usually promise. They have over 19 000 soil pollutions today, which they must already promise, which are financed through the region. How to do that, I am willing to discuss it, but it may be that we have to make such a checklist via the Ministry of the Environment, so you are aware of how to deal with it itself, that there are PFOS pollutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130703	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130705	I heard that in his speech the rapporteur said that, contrary to some of the previous speakers, a great deal was done out of the defence reserve. And so I would like to hear a little bit about where it is that SF imagines, if it is a yes on 1 June, that Denmark will then send a contribution to. Where exactly is it imagined that on 2 June or over the summer, over the year, we can see Danish frigates, planes, troops suddenly act under an EU mandate if it stands for the Socialist People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130746	At first glance, I do not think that we should jump into some of the missions that the European Union is undertaking. It may be that it would make sense for Denmark to participate in the pirate mission that is currently in place; but what is crucial to me and is why I recommend a yes is not what is right now that we cannot participate in. That is also the concern I have about how the world develops if the Americans withdraw troops from Europe, and Europe has to stand up for its own security. Well, then, I think we should be part of that debate and discussion in Europe. Today it is the case that Denmark is the only country in Europe that is not part of defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130824	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130825	Fortunately, that is not true. In any case, I believe that the British would be rather sorry not to be regarded as a European country. I also believe that the Norwegians and the Icelanders would be it and a number of others. But let it go. Well, when I ask, it's because the Danes like this, I think, want a sense of where SF is going. SF has gone from being a 'no' party to being a 'yes' party, which is why it would be nice to have such firm examples, for example. whether to take a frigate and contribute to the ATLANTA mission east of Africa. And what kind of frigate is that? We only have five. Is it the one who, until recently, fought pirates west of Africa, or is it one of those who own territorial law enforcement up in Greenland, or where should you take it from? You can only have one frigate one place at a time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130907	The rapporteur is quite right about that. If I should mention some examples of some of the things that I think Denmark should participate in, it should be PESCO cooperation, which is about cybersecurity, from which Denmark is exempted a part, because some of it is defence cybersecurity. We cannot participate in that today; and I am most concerned about that part and the warfare. When I look at Denmark, we are one of the world's most digitized countries... we are vulnerable. When you see how, for example... a country like Russia is laying down one's infrastructure, so that is one of the things I believe we must share in protecting ourselves from in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130937	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523130940	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the issues raised by the rapporteur on the environment. As you know, SF was for the project Lynetteholmen. We were few parties in the Folketing, including New Citizens, who were critical of Lynetteholmen, especially with regard to the marine environment. It has subsequently become apparent that it has been a justified fear or a justified criticism of the project. I also know that SF has subsequently been criticizing the release of sludge into Køge Bay, and has been critical of the way it is handled. Does SF regret the fact that so quickly and without sufficiently well-founded environmental reports, it has given a commitment to initiate Lynetteholmen, and was there anything that could have been done better?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131031	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131032	How I would have liked New Citizens to have pulled themselves together and sent a rapporteur to the meeting we had in the Ministry of Transport when we were discussing Lynetteholmen. I was sitting there as party chairman because I thought it was important. I spent my time discussing bubble curtains out in Køge Bay; I have spent my time discussing when to deliver the sludge, and that you should do so in winter, where there are no problems with island or species. I was discussing the sound level in relation to guinea pigs. None of the things New Citizens participated in. So I'm gonna be a little bit like that. I almost had to say the word in English, but I don't get annoyed because it's easy to get behind when you're sitting comfortably outside. I am preoccupied with the marine environment; I am concerned with the state of the environment both in Køge Bay and in Øresund and how I wish that New Citizens were doing it instead of just being busy on social media and saying the right thing in the Assembly Hall and making us look stupid. You didn't participate!
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131128	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131130	That was a strange and unsteady svada. The rapporteur knows very well that we are four members of parliament who work hard on the sun black. The rapporteur also knows very well that we have been against Lynetteholmen from the outset. Whether it is because we have not been invited to the meeting or whether it is because our rapporteur in this area has had to look after one of his other 6-8 rapporteurs or perhaps even have 12 rapporteurs or perhaps even have been sitting in this Chamber, where we have to do our work too, I do not know. But this does not change the fact that SF has voted in favour of a project which has caused problems in Køge Bay. And my question is whether SF thinks it could have been handled better and whether SF is sorry that SF has not been critical of it in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131209	Is it untenable that I point out that you attend the meetings you are invited to in the ministry if you think a case is important? In fact, I do not think it is if you think something important is to be prioritised. And I have tried to sit in a small parliamentary group, for it tried SF in 2015 after the parliamentary elections, where we were quite few in the Folketing, but we always prioritised the environmental issues and natural causes, because it is something that is close to our heart. I've noticed that New Citizen stamps in when it's smart in relation to the public but where else are you? That's why I'm actually getting a little excited when New Citizens talk about it, because you haven't done anything wrong!
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131248	Thank you. Time's up. The next one is sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131252	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a good and insightful speech again. In fact, I think Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr often delivers that. Now to my question: Inequality has gone crazy. It's time for the showdown. This is how Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr wrote in a chronicle before the last parliamentary elections. The reason for the logic was that economic inequality had increased slightly under the bourgeois government, and now the battle had to be waged. Now Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has brought a red government to power and holds the red government in power, where inequality has increased and where the income group that has been most affected is the ones that have the least money. So it is increasing inequality that hits those who have the least, the hardest. That's why my question is, where was the showdown?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131344	We are negotiating services right now and there is no doubt that we are among the parties and I would say that fortunately we are more on the wagon fighting for some of the poorest here in Denmark to be better. I would say that this was not what I saw when the Left was in government, that is to say that people were concerned, for example, with the people who were there. was on cash benefits or on cash benefits. We have also done something while this government has been sitting. We have among other things. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission is not in a position to take a decision on this matter. But in addition to that, I'm gonna have to deal with this inequality thing. Because it's a rather important concept to relate to. One of the reasons why inequality has increased under this government is that we've got more pensioners and more students. So that is the development we have in society, economically. That's one part of it. The second part is that inequality is increasing because we, for example, are increasing. has introduced the cigarette tax. I know that the Left was also open to this, because we know that the more people who smoke, the more unhealthy we become. It makes really good sense. That's why the inequality has increased under this government. The inequality rose under the government of the Left because you gave tax relief to the very richest.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131451	Thank you. Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131452	Yes, but the truth is, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr knows, that even if we clean up the figures for the increase in excise duties on cigarettes, the government that is currently in office has pursued a policy that has increased inequality and has hit those who have the least money. That is why my question is simply: before the parliamentary elections, they said that inequality has gone crazy and now comes the hour of the dispute. Is there then only a need for a showdown when it is a blue government that increases inequality while the showdown doesn't matter when it's a red government that increases inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131524	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131525	No, I still think we have plenty to do with this government. Now the SF doesn't sit in government even though many believe it, the SF doesn't sit in this government. And I am very pleased that, together with Enhedslisten, we sometimes arm the government to ensure that there is some more social balance. I am glad that we introduced, among other things. a children's check for the poorest families of children in this country, because they needed it after you reinstated the poverty benefits. So it's just to say that I kind of think we're doing something. Could we do more if it were up to the SF or if we had 90 mandates? Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131559	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131602	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr where she thinks asylum should be dealt with. The reason why I am asking is because a chronicle in the newspaper Information on 3 May was able to read, and I now quote: 'In future, asylum treatment and allocation must be possible in asylum centres in the neighbourhood'. ▪ The crown was written by Mr. Carl Valentin and MEP Kira Hansen from the Socialist People's Party. That is precisely why I am asking the rapporteur how the SF thinks asylum treatment should be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131642	In the ideal world, I and the SF asylum procedure should take place outside Europe's borders. I think it should take place in the neighbourhoods. It may be EU camps, it may be UN camps, I am, in effect, open to discussing that. We have proposed that it should be a form of EU reception centres. Why do we think that? We think so, because it is now refugees who have to transport themselves by very, very dangerous roads in order to get to Europe and get asylum. It is either through the Mediterranean where there are people drowning or through the mountains where we see people freezing to death. It is also most often those with the most financial resources, but also physically, who are given the opportunity to come to Europe and get asylum. We believe that it would be wiser to do the asylum procedure elsewhere, so that we might have a fairer asylum procedure, that is to say that it is not only the strongest who manage, but perhaps also the disabled person or the mother with children who will have the opportunity to seek asylum in Europe. And then, together in Europe, we must find a common solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131741	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131743	But is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr not aware that it is very close to being a breach of the refugee convention, which says precisely that, as far as the countries that have joined us are concerned, we have the right to seek asylum? I hope, then, that the SF listens to the UN, which says that this externalisation of asylum treatment is the start of a dispute with the refugee convention. We find that very worrying in the Enhedslisten. At the same time, I would also like to say to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that it is true that many people are fleeing on a very dangerous path to Europe. I think they will, no matter where we put an asylum centre. That is why the solution must be to make legal escape routes to Europe. At least that's what we mean in the Enhedslisten. However, I would like to hear the SF's position on the UN's criticism of the plan presented by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131830	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131832	Well, we have actually listened to the UN, and we have also discussed this here with the Danish Institute for Human Rights, which actually believes that it can be kept within the Refugee Convention. So there I think we may have different sources and maybe we still have a discussion for the benefit of us. I'd be happy to take that. Because what I am concerned about is that we are ensuring that refugees receive much more humane treatment than what we are seeing today. That's one. The second is that I simply do not believe that this is a fair solution, as it is at present, to the problem of refugees, and I am very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131910	Thank you. Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131913	Thank you. The Chairman of the SF states that children and young people's well-being must be a top priority in the coming years. It is also the case that SF is adding votes to this agreement on the compulsory distribution of pupils on the basis of parents' income, which several experts call a technocratic piece of work, which will lead to distrust, lack of motivation, increased apostasy and poorer high school time. How is it compatible with the fact that SF will have well-being as its top priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523131948	Thank you for that question. I have been looking forward to getting that question because I think there is a problem with the current way we do the high school distribution. Today it is only geography that determines it, but in the future it will also be other parameters that count. There are a lot of students today who do not get their first choice. I can mention Olivia, who lives at Frederiksberg, she has applied for Rysensteen Gymnasium, but could not get in there, but she doesn't get her second priority, which is Frederiksberg Gymnasium, no, she doesn't get any of her priorities, but goes out to Avedoor Gymnasium she has been very happy to go there, and that's a happy story. But today we do not have the free choice. So we have asked: can we do it better? I think we are doing this with this agreement, and the advantage of this agreement is that we are helping some of the high schools that have really been starved in recent years because the students are going to the major high schools. One example is Fjerritslev Gymnasium, which is almost closing because all the students apply to Aalborg. It is a high school which, if it is to survive, needs students to get there, and it is not enough that it is a good high school, for Aalborg is pulling.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132055	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132057	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself gives examples and will give an example. Before this deal, for example, it was... such at Count Gymnasium that it was only 6% that didn't get their first priority. With the new agreement, 17 per cent do not get their first priority. Knowing that it means a lot to young people to be able to go with their comrades and to be able to choose a high school so that they can go with their comrades, shouldn't SF leave this agreement when the students' well-being is now a top priority for the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132136	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132137	It is precisely because the well-being of the students is a top priority that we are in this agreement. Firstly, we are in it because we want the students to be mixed around the country, and secondly, because we also make sure that geography counts. And yesterday, we changed the agreement. I think it was a bourgeois party that had to draw lots if you did not meet your priorities, but it has now been withdrawn from the agreement, and now it is actually the case that if you do not meet your priorities, it is still geography that decides it. I think it is a good deal • I think it is both socially fair, but it is also good for young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132209	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132212	Thank you. I'd like to stay in the financial department, too, and I have to read it out so I don't do anyone wrong. Sir. Karsten Hønge of the SF has said that it will be important to negotiate an extension of the Arne pension, and that is what is urgent, because this is the prerequisite for more people to see themselves for several years on the labour market. What I just want to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is how much the Arnepension should be extended to, because I think it is a good idea not just to let it hang in the air. Then it also says: Who will actually pay the bill? Because I was looking a little for if I could find it, and there are some SFs who have bid for it, but I'd rather hear it from the SF's own president.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132254	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132255	Firstly, we think that the Arne pension could be extended. There are some groups that fall through a little, and these are some of the women in particular. There is perhaps a reason why it is called Arnepensionen, and we would have liked it to have included more people, and that is what we still think, and that is because there is a difference between whether you like me enter the labour market at the age of 30 or whether you enter the labour market at the age of 17-18, and if the retirement age is only 72 years old, there is quite a time for retirement if you have now entered the labour market at the age of 17-18. That is why Arnepensionen makes a great deal of sense, and it is the case that people who have worked many years on the labour market have paid taxes. So they have also helped finance it. I think there was some bourgeois politician who said earlier today that you retired for someone else's money. No, you've been paying taxes on the way, I just want to say. So how are you supposed to finance this? I think that the way we financed Arnepension was a very good idea. We financed it by making a tax on our banks. We are, in fact, willing to look more in that direction, and if the Left is interested, then we are happy to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132401	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132402	Now, when we're on the platform, I'll deal with what we mean, but thank you for the answer. But I understand that these are the same people who just haven't paid enough yet, and now they have to pay more. And I am also pleased with the answers I received to the questions I did not ask. But perhaps I would also like to have that on the question I am asking, namely how much it is then, it needs to be extended. Because I think most Danes can figure out their own situation where they are. They just want to know, if anyone thinks that you need to expand this pension, how much it needs to expand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132436	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132437	One of the discussions we had in the process was that if you were in a study, for example. As a nurse or educator, and if you were in the situation that you were not paid during your internship, but su during the internship, then did not talk to Arnepensionen, and they may have been as many years on the labour market as people who have been taught. There was some of what we were open to looking at and we are still away that if they have been 40 years, 42 years or 44 years on the labour market, they will have the opportunity to retire earlier. I think that's fair while I think that people like you and me can retire much later.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132512	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132514	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a good speech. I would like to dive into an interview from 8 May 2019, Berlingske, where SF says that SF makes two ultimate demands of the Prime Minister. We have just heard that inequality is at least no longer high on the agenda, but this is about the ceiling on cash benefits. It was one of the two ultimate demands. What exactly does the SF put into the word ultimate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132552	First, I'd like to correct something, sir. Kim Valentin said that inequality isn't important. Well, inequality is important, as I also said to Mr. Morten Dahlin earlier. It's just for us to make it clear. Besides, I'm glad you're all reading articles with SF. After all, it is wonderful that we have become so important that you all have time to read newspapers about us, and even back to 2019. And that is correct: it is absolutely essential for the SF that we had minimum standards introduced, which was the one ultimate requirement. It's come through. We still need some municipalities to join us, but the money has been dropped, so we are well into it. The second is, of course, the ceiling on cash benefits, in which we were set up a Commission of Service, which states in the terms of reference of the Commission of Service that the ceiling on cash benefits should be abolished. So it's kind of a bottom job. They have made their recommendations where they also abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. And I would say that the SF is prepared to do what the Service Commission has put forward and put a little more money in relation to the families of children; so we had come a long way. We're still negotiating that. That's the way it is sometimes. It takes time to negotiate, and there we sometimes have some disagreements internally. I don't think that surprises the Left. You've tried that many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132656	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132657	I actually asked what you put in the ultimate. Does that mean that if it is not fulfilled, yes, then you are resigning that you no longer support the Prime Minister? That's what I'm actually asking. So, how far up the tree is one crawled in relation to the ultimate? That's kind of what I'm asking. And then would I like to ask whether it is still an ultimate requirement, or is it good enough that one of the two has been fulfilled now? For then it is a whole new meaning of ultimate: that one of them is to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132731	But now both of them have actually been met: one by voting on minimum standards and implementing funding in the Danish Parliament by the Finance Act, and the other, the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits, was part of the Commission's mandate. The government had heard that was absolutely crucial for the SF. They have made their recommendation. We're negotiating that right now. So I kind of think SF has delivered on it. Fortunately, we have also delivered on much else. We have also delivered an ambitious climate law, which, fortunately, is part of it. We have provided free psychological assistance to young people under the age of 25, and there is much more we have delivered and much more we would like to deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132806	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132808	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. After all, the SF has talked a lot about the need for a biodiversity law with binding targets, and we in the Free Greens have also put forward proposals on this which the SF has not voted in favour of. So I would like to hear: what is the rapporteur's justification for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132833	Thank you for a very good question. I am very concerned that we should have a law of nature in Denmark. I think it is crucial that we have a law of nature in Denmark. We still have a decline in species, and I believe that we and the Free Greens fully agree that it should be reversed. This is simply unacceptable in relation to future generations; it is really a crisis we are looking into. And that's why we're going to negotiate with the government about a law of nature. We have then agreed in the financial law negotiations ^ and that, of course, where we are a little different from the Free Greens, because we are actually continually negotiating finance law with the government that we have to review all legislation now in the field in relation to biodiversity. Now we are going through everything in the field of the Ministry of the Environment, and I also believe that in the area of food and agriculture we are looking through it to see what the current legal basis is, so that we can build on the basis of a biodiversity law. So it's actually in process, but I think we agree on the end goal. And I very much agree with the Greens that this is a crisis on the top shelf.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132935	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132937	Thank you. And it is true that we agree on the objective; it is just a question of how we get there. And I would also like to hear: what does the rapporteur think the time frame is in relation to getting there, because nature really calls for action now? And another question: what is the rapporteur's view of the fact that we have so many new dancers in our country who do not have the right to vote in the forthcoming parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523132959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133000	Now I'm gonna have to see if I can answer both. With regard to the first on biodiversity law, I would like to say that they are now in the process, and I hope that in the autumn we will be able to start discussing what the next legal complex should be, because that is what matters. For me, it is important that we actually do this work well and thoroughly, but also that it becomes action and not just talk. With regard to the second part on New Danes and the right to vote, I would say. They have the opportunity to vote in local and regional elections if they are not Danish citizens. They already can today. I believe that you must be a Danish citizen in order to be allowed to vote, and that is what the Constitution means. So if what the rapporteur is asking me is whether there are any more Danish citizens, then it has to be said that they must at least comply with the rules and requirements that we have. Well, if that's what this is about. But I am not quite sure what the rapporteur is asking me. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133042	Thank you. And then we have room for a single round of brief remarks more. Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133048	Yay, that's it! I would also like to thank Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and also thank you for the good cooperation we have in so many areas, among others. The green one. I can read that our Minister for Food is now promising 10%. That is not what we have heard in the negotiations, so it may be that there is a great deal of good going on there. On the other hand, I'm not superimpressed by this obsession with high school students. I don't think Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is in any doubt about that either. So I would like to follow up on my colleague's question. SF says a lot about the need to be calm in relation to the young people and the children; we should not be miserable; we should make sure that they get through things well. And above all, on top of corona, we have a special obligation to ensure that children and young people actually have a terrific life. Why is it that the SF thinks this agreement is so good that you can be in it because there are many experts who say the opposite and that it will have consequences for our young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133144	First of all, I think what we're doing at sea level together is really good. It's really good. Untouched sea, and then I hope that we can reach the 30% target. Secondly, in relation to the high school issue: the high school teachers say it is a good deal; the high school students say it is a good deal. So it's not all experts who say it's a joke. It's actually those who are involved in this area that think it's a good idea. And we don't have a choice today. We don't. I know you make it look like this, but we don't. Now we actually ensure another way to distribute students to high schools. And then you could say, is that the perfect solution? At least I think it's better than the one we had. But there has never been a real free choice for the high schools, because that is not how our country works. I'm concerned that we're interfering with each other. That's one thing. And the second is that I am also concerned that we have upper secondary education throughout the country. I know that some people are very concerned about the big cities and their growth. I am also concerned about the fact that we have growth throughout the country, and that also requires that we have a high school in Fjerritslev or in Drying in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133245	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133246	There can be a lot of good ideas about having high schools outside the big cities too. There is no doubt about that. But the fact that there are young people who are not going to high schools now, with the agreement that was before this agreement, does not make it any more right to make more coercion. And that's exactly what I think is really weird, since in the SF you have worked a lot on this agenda with children and young people. And that also makes me ask the question: why haven't you pushed the government much more with regard to psychiatry compared to getting an agreement for it? Three years have passed, and this is one of the most important issues, both for SF and K.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133326	In relation to the high schools, I would like to say that there are just fundamental differences of opinion. I mean, I think the method used now is better than the one we had before. I don't think we'll agree on that, and peace be with it. In relation to the psychiatry plan, I would like to say that I fully agree with you. So, the SF has fought and fought in the negotiations and now our rapporteur sits next to me in relation to discussing a 10-year psychiatry plan, but also in relation to providing the action plan for children and young people. There are two elements in our understanding paper. It wasn't there before with a bourgeois government. At least it's with this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133400	Thank you. I was just a little quick, because there had been a technical error, so there was a rapporteur who had gone out of the list of short remarks. So I hope it's okay that we get one more. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133415	Thank you. I am pleased that in his speech the rapporteur expresses concern at the fact that real wages are falling at the moment and that more and more Danes are finding it difficult to reconcile budgets. In this light, I wonder why the SF keeps adding votes to tax increases that make it even harder for the Danes to make their budgets stick together. The latest example comes as recently as yesterday, when SF says they will support imposing a streaming tax on the Danes. Can the speaker not understand that it is a little difficult to sit out there as a citizen and hear that the rapporteur is concerned, while the rapporteur's party continues to add votes to these tax increases which make it difficult to make things stick together for the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133457	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133458	I think it is actually strange that we have a lot of media in this country that pays taxes and that we then have such huge mastodons as the streaming services are, which do not pay taxes. And what is good in this media agreement, which I am really excited about, and which I would like to praise very much for the Minister is now not here, but it may be that she hears it anyway, is that you start to say that these streaming services have to pay taxes and that they have to contribute with Danish content. Here my concern is mostly that Danish is a very, very small language, and if we do not make certain demands, so that some of the future productions we get, both on the radio and as here on TV and streaming services, are Danish-produced, then we risk actually losing something that I think is quite unique. So I think both that tax is fair, but I think it also serves a higher purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133552	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133554	Since the rapporteur then does not choose to reduce other taxes at the same time, which means that the Danes' budget will not be further challenged by this tax, it does not, of course, add up as an answer to my question. This just makes it harder for the Danes to get things together, and it comes on top of the telephone tax and the extra tax on culture and other things that the SF has also voted for. I would just like to ask: can SF then promise, given that SF recognises that a lot of Danes find it difficult to get things together, that SF will not back up even more taxes than has already been done in this period?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133628	It is thought-provoking that taxing streaming services automatically means imposing a tax on the Danes. Because I'm thinking that these services have a billion profits they might be able to cut a little bit while actually contributing to society. It's kind of like saying that when the little coffee lady down on the corner pays her taxes with pleasure and does it every day and every week, it's just something she does, but when the big mastodons like Starbucks and others don't pay taxes in Denmark, it's kind of okay, and if they have to start paying taxes, then it's all the consumers who have to pay. I just don't think it has to be in Denmark. It does not have to be passed on to consumers; it can be done better, and I believe that streaming services will also be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133709	Thank you. Then there is no time for further brief remarks. Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. We shall continue with the next rapporteur, who is from the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523133720	Thank you. Today, I hope that we also take the time to look and look. I hope we take the time to look at the Denmark that we are, the Denmark that we have become, and the Denmark that we must be, that we take the time to look at Denmark in Europe, the world in Denmark. But first I just want to come back and look back to another time three decades ago. I was 14 years old in 1989 when the Wall fell. I still really remember the day, I can almost feel it. The fall of the wall was the images of cold concrete that were broken down, it was images of people who again met each other, the people, millions of people who claimed their right to draw their own boundaries. They broke down that impenetrable concrete that separated them, and for the first time in my life I experienced great politically that when we stand together across countries and national borders, we can change. I was so inspired, and while the dust from the concrete of the wall lay down, a new Europe and an enlarged Europe developed built on peace, community, trade and even closer cooperation. It was the way to bind in a reunited Germany so that the countries around felt not threatened, and it worked. But which Denmark, Denmark in Europe and the world, did I expect as a teenager there to see three decades later? The fall of the wall and the pictures of the protestors at the same time that year at the Heavenly Peace Square in Beijing a few months before made me, as a young man, have this budding belief in an ever better world society, but also a proof of how incredibly difficult it is. I don't think the protesters from Heavenly Peace Square have ever seen them since. But still. I believed that there would never again be territorial war in Europe, war where one country is attacking another to win its territory. I believed that the time when states sowed divisions between people across national borders would be over, and I actually believed that the freedom of the people had finally prevailed. I believed that the greatest challenges we could solve, turn to opportunities, opportunities and respect for other people, even for those we do not immediately think are similar to ourselves. I also believed that we could solve that with holes in the ozone layer and that the ice melted without perhaps fully understanding the climate crisis then and what it would develop into. So back to today, and I understand that my 14-year-old I would be worried if she saw what I see today, because the pictures that attach to the 14-year-olds today are the ones from Butja, Irpin and Mariupol. But I would also like to reassure her, because Putin's attack on Ukraine has shown that unity in Europe and in the West is stronger than many thought it was that in Denmark, in Europe across borders, we have gathered together to show that when dark forces try to divide us up, we stand together. It is our protection against violence, it is our sword, and for the sake of our future we must seek it and cultivate it. I will also show her the 14-year-old that in Danish politics we can make historical agreements such as the national compromise and on defence and security policy, and I will prove to her that we in Europe take responsibility for our own security, our own defence, as our allies have asked us for, and I will show her that we in Denmark seek influence by joining defence cooperation in the European Union, and I will prove that Denmark is its responsibility in the world aware of the humanitarian disasters and conflicts that are sending people on the run. From one crisis to another: the climate crisis. The Danish Parliament is finally in motion in the climate area. We're moving from word to action right now. Thank you. It's about time. So far it has been too little and too late. We are so far from the goal, but I dare say today to the teenager I was that we are now in the process and that we know that it is serious because we in Denmark have the courage to make the difficult choices and take the lead, and it is difficult choices that have driven our society forward. I would say to her that a greener world awaits full independence from fossil energy sources and transition to energy islands and green energy is not a utopia, but that this is something that we in Denmark are now gathering the rest of Europe to ensure, and I will let her understand that the bound task is full of opportunities. But I will also understand her continued concern and her legitimate right to demand the action of me as an adult, of you. So let's turn our eyes and look inside, try to look at Denmark as others see it today in our time. Which country do you see? Which country does the Europeans see? Which country sees other citizens in the world? A good one, I think, but are we a little reluctant too? Who are we? If we are now just trying to look past the borders and both the blue waves and the city towers and the hilltops I know that these are the boundaries that both literature and art have often drawn and painted for us • Try to see if we can also find our folk border, and then see for you the Denmark that we here in the Danish Parliament are helping to change, what we are doing on good days to change, and what Denmark we are. And what exactly do we look like for those who look into? I hope we can debate that today too. Which country sees the world looking in? Is it a Denmark that extends beyond ourselves, beyond us our own borders with the other Europeans, but also beyond Europe's borders? For Europe is not the world, the West is not the world. Where do we draw our limit in relation to e.g. helping people on the run? Should we draw some new boundaries, learn something from the enormous will and ability that we Danes have shown to accept the fleeing Ukrainians, help more where they are, so that they are not forced to flee? Are we, the Danes, the reservations to such an extent that we will not believe that we can actually create a common strong European asylum system? Are we those who insist with symbol, violence and power on driving solo outside the community, sending people who have fled to Denmark, to a camp in Rwanda, for the sake of discouragement, so that the other countries can take up the task instead of us? Are we a country that lets five young Danish children rot and risk dying in a prison camp in Syria because we ourselves will not be prosecuting their three mothers? Should Denmark's borders be those that limit love from wandering and returning home, because the Danes cannot fall in love with foreigners and be allowed to live in their own country, even if they can support themselves? I do not believe that this is the people's limit, and change requires that you dare think big and think new, and that you also dare change your attitude when reality changes around us. And I can't believe we live in a free and peaceful country where we can fight for what we love. We can never take that peace and freedom for granted, and the communities and the unity of which we are a part, we have laboriously built up for many years. We cannot take them for granted either. We can exert strength and strengthen them, but it is our choice and I am sincerely and truly grateful that we live in a country where we have free choice. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523134644	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523134650	Radical Left is behind an agreement in which pupils in and around the larger cities are now to be distributed around certain colleges, based on what their parents earn, not based on something they can influence themselves, not based on what they want, but based on what their parents earn. So you want to give young people a stamp on the forehead with their parents' paychecks, as if those who come from wealthy homes would always be a gain for the class, while those who come from home with less money would be some kind of strain. Most people who have been in the classroom know that this is not really the case. Now the Radical Left often talks about the well-being of young people, which is why I would really like to ask Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen what the Radical Left is counting on this will have an effect on the well-being of young people when more people in and around the larger cities are forced to go to a high school that they really do not want to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523134752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523134754	I am very pleased that this morning we have made some changes to this agreement so that there is no longer a drawing element, but so that there is a subsidiarity principle. This has been absolutely crucial for the Radical Left, and that is why we are still in it. I just want to add that because it means a great deal to the young people in the larger cities. Morten Dahlin, who I think is well aware of the problem, that for more than 10 years now I have been elected in the vicinity of Copenhagen, both in the West and north of, and the young people who attend the high schools in the West, we have failed enormously from in here, and we also have in the Radical Left. We took this very seriously years ago, because we simply cannot be aware of failing an entire generation of young people who, after all, show all their worth by now going to high school in large numbers, and then leave them together in high schools they have not even chosen for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523134858	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523134900	1% is the change in and around the major cities with the supplementary agreement that was made this morning • 1%, so there will still be hundreds of young people who find their free school choices severely curtailed. And now Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen says that young people in the West have been let down. Excuse me, isn't it a failure to tell Lukas from Albertslund that now we're forcing you to go to Count Gymnasium? Isn't it a betrayal to tell Sofie from Herlev that now we're forcing you to go to Birkerød? How would coercion help the failure that has been made to young people in the West?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523134935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523134936	Well, it's also a strawman, as sir. Morten Dahlin leads there, because that's not how the deal is screwed up. It is already the case that, unfortunately, income is distributing young people today. That's where they live. But the result, if we do nothing, is that a large number of high schools are becoming smaller and will eventually close. This applies both to the Western region and to all the small and smaller colleges in the outlying areas. That is what we take responsibility for, and it is still the case that we can have a number of priorities. What we have now changed and which I am really glad about is that it is not drawing lots. If you do not get one of your priorities, as far, by far, most will do, then it is the principle of subsidiarity that will determine it. It's really good and a big improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135018	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135020	After all, our electricity has gone from being produced on coal to being produced on renewable energy much more today and completely in the future. And then we have that gas, which is now black when it's natural gas, and which has to turn green when it's biogas. And I have heard the rapporteur's party on several occasions and the rapporteur himself say that it is really important to get rid of natural gas. That's why I want to know if the Radical Left is ready to back the SF in that we need 100 per cent. Green gas in 2027 rather than 2030, as the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135055	Yes, we would very much like more investment in it. And then I hope that SF could be lured into helping to abolish that gas pipeline to Lolland, because we need to use the biogas for the companies that need gas but which need to go from natural gas to biogas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135111	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135113	Thank you for that clear answer. After all, if we get the heating out of gas, we will also get the gas consumption down. But should the policy of the Radicals be understood to mean that no heavy industry in Denmark will need gas in the future, even if it is biogas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135129	No, there are companies that need to use it, and that is why we really need to work to reserve the biogas for them, so that when electrified as Kraka has just explained that in relation to the sugar factories at Lolland there is no need to spend a billion to build new gas pipeline. This building of new fossil infrastructure is what I hope we can agree to get away from.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135154	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135157	Thank you. In her speech Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen referred a little to Nordahl Griegs • To the youth and there it is also said: Noble is man, the earth is rich! If there is distress and hunger, it is due to fraud. And then I remembered that in the past the Radicals have indicated that they would actually support the ongoing EU actions that form part of the EU's military dimension. And there I have understood that they will actually be supported all of them. And one of them is precisely the training of the Libyan Coast Guard, a mission that picks up migrants, sends them back to camps in Libya, where they are subjected to human rights violations, rape, torture. It's documented by Amnesty International. It is a mission that the German Bundestag has said that German soldiers should not participate in for precisely those reasons. Is it not a failure in relation to the whole refugee agenda if the Radicals are willing to support EU actions of that caliber?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135301	We must, of course, distance ourselves from any form of exploitation in this way, and we will then look into that every time we have to take a position. Basically, I think it would be wonderful if Denmark could engage in more. We can't get involved in everything at once. And if Germany has found out that things are going on there that are under all criticism, then it has to be investigated, just as it has to be when it comes to NATO missions or UN missions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135327	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135329	But of course Denmark must contribute. We can, of course, do this to a great extent under the auspices of the United Nations, where the aim is precisely peacekeeping and conflict escalation. However, if we can turn off that action in Libya, there are other actions, such as in Mali, where EU-trained soldiers have committed attacks on civilians, or in the Central African Republic, where EU-trained soldiers have come under the control of the Wagner Group, or the action in Mozambique, where it is about protecting the gas interests of fossil fuels, which we know must remain underground. Isn't there now a lot of the actions where we have to say: we are not actually going to take part in them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135405	We must take a specific position on this, but the same applies here as when we take a position on UN missions and NATO missions. We need to know what is going on and whether the rules are being complied with. That's one of them. training of soldiers and police, which is at issue here, so that you can take care of peace and stability for yourself. I think it makes good sense for the European Union to help with this. This is something Denmark can sometimes be involved in, but all of it is a priority of our resources. What would make the difference was that we had influence and could help to ask those questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135439	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135442	Thank you. The Radicals tend to be a party that prides itself on being a liberal party, a party that pays tribute to free elections. The rapporteur also did so in his speech but also a party that talks about the distrust of young people. All this is now being thrown into the garbage bin and is beginning to be forced to distribute young people on the basis of parents'income. I would like to ask the rapporteur, who has also been elected in the metropolitan area of Copenhagen, whether the rapporteur believes that it is a good and relevant parameter to distribute young high school students according to what their parents earn and according to what their comrades' parents earn.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135524	Well, that's fine, and I understand the question. I completely disagree that this is not also about the well-being of young people. It does, that is, that we meet each other, that we don't isolate high schools, that we don't have to close a whole lot of high schools, because everyone can't be at the same thing. They cannot do so today, nor will they be able to do so in the future. There's such a trend in that. I have a boy of my own in the ninth grade, and I know very well that for some years these are the same high schools that young people want to go to. They can't all be in the same place. So this thing about not getting your first or second priority met already exists. What this is all about is that we retain high schools all over the country, also in the West region, also in the vicinity of Copenhagen, which are good colleges with very good education, where there is room for many different young people. I think this is incredibly important for the future of all young people, regardless of their background.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135627	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135628	Thank you. I understand that, because it was exactly the same as the rapporteur's reply to Mr McMillan-Scott's question. Morten Dahlin's question. That's just not what I asked. I asked whether the rapporteur thinks it is a good and relevant parameter to start distributing young people according to what their parents earn. Is it good for young people to talk about what their parents serve or about what their peers' parents serve; is it really, really good that young people start to care?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135658	I do not think young people should be more concerned about that than they already do, but that is how we live, depending on what you earn. I think it's the best we've been able to find. I do not think that we should divide this into ethnicity nor should we divide it into grades. So I think it's okay to divide into some groups in this way, so we're gonna split up around, but you're still gonna get what you want, but so there's gonna be room for a lot more of them, for example. The West, which has not got what they wanted, and whose high schools are getting smaller and smaller.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135732	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135735	Thank you. I was a little surprised yesterday, as the radical foreigner's rapporteur, Samira Nawa, in a very strange way, I think, attacked mine, I would almost call on a young girl who would really like to do well, be an engineer, have a house in North Zealand, immigrants. I think that's the right way to go if you have those thoughts. But she was still wearing a scarf, very shrouded. And then I wrote that I thought she should leave that too. And then I got a svada from the radical aliens' rapporteur that it was the Taliban. I am a little puzzled about being compared to the Taliban, i.e. I am in favour of freedom, and for me, the exact opposite is what the Taliban is in favour of: whip, the death penalty, the crawling of women, the downgrading of women, women must not be allowed to do anything at all. I don't have to sneak it all up. But I just need to hear Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's position. I am not assuming that it is the radical, and has it been said something, that it was then a very, very unreasonable Facebook statement to be included in relation to freedom in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135843	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135844	I do not know the specific example. I am sure Mrs Samira Nawa does not believe that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is the Taliban. What I am absolutely convinced that Samira Nawa and I agree is that we should not interfere with what clothes people wear. That is the radical position. No one should, because it is not freedom to meddle in what people wear out of clothes. It's the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135913	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135914	However, this was an extremely weak answer: I am sure that Mrs Samira Nawa does not believe that Pia Kjærsgaard is the Taliban. Has there been any discussion? I could just imagine if the Danish People's Party had done something in the opposite direction. Then the Radical Left would have had a lot standing in line and said: take a distance, take a distance, take a distance. I'm just asking for a very clear position from the party leader. Is it the Radical Left's foreign policy that if you tell Muslim women in this country to take off their headscarf, you are the Taliban? I'm just asking for an opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135950	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523135951	No, it's not. But what is Radical Left's foreign policy and policy in general and it doesn't really have much to do with foreigners is that no one in the Folketing should decide what clothes people wear in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140005	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140008	Let me follow up a little on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's question, because it was actually the same question I was going to ask. And now I can quote the tweet that Mrs Samira Nawa put up yesterday: in Afghanistan it is the Taliban that dictates women's dress; in Denmark we have Pia Kjærsgaard to tell women how they should dress. Whether you want to force a woman to wear a scarf, or whether you want to force it by her, same shit, different country. I just have to ask the radical President whether the Radical Left really believes that this is the same thing the Taliban is exposing women to in Afghanistan. It is, of course, deeply oppressive to women, and that is exactly what Muslim women's scarf is. So when you say that there is gender equality in Denmark and that is precisely why you are calling for the scarf to be removed, does the radical President believe that it is really to compare with the Taliban?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140104	I don't hear it that way either. But I do not think, as chairman of the Radical Left, that we are against anyone being ordered to put on a certain piece of clothes or to order someone to take off a certain piece of clothes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140141	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. And, by the way, it is the one I have given the floor who has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140148	Thank you. Well, now we're again exposed to that complete, far-fetched radical world view. In other words, we have just spoken of forced distribution in the field of high school, and the reason why we are even in this situation with these immigrant gymnasiums is, among other things, one of the reasons. Radical Left. Now we are faced with a situation in which the Radical Left is still completely ignoring the fact that the Muslim scarf is deeply suppressed by women and, at the same time, when it is then pointed out yes, that it is actually called upon to do well by taking off the scarf, a young woman says it is to compare with the Taliban. I mean, the President has to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140229	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140230	I think I did, too. To impose or prohibit people from wearing a certain piece of clothing is certainly not for us in accordance with freedom and Danish democratic values. If Mrs Mette Thiesen is now blaming the Radical Left for the fact that there are many young people with different ethnic backgrounds who go to high school, then I would be happy to take it on me. It is a huge success story that young people born and raised in Denmark sometimes through several generations now in that number go on upper secondary education it is fantastic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140307	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140309	Thank you. We're going back to the forced distribution of high school students based on parents' income. What the Radical Left has been modified by a supplementary agreement is that when pupils are rejected at their local high school because their parents earn too much or too little, so far it was in the agreement that it was by drawing lots that they found out who was going somewhere else. Now it is the case that the person who lives 3 km from his nearest high school has to leave, whereas the person who lives 2 km from his nearest high school can stay. In other words, although two people have chosen their nearest high school, the person who lives 3 km away has less right to go there than the person who lives 2 km away. And this is a great victory, says Radical Left. I would like to know, and this is quite a matter of principle: instead of taking as a starting point what is best for Alma, who is going to start high school, the Radical Left is now embarking on a course which states that Alma must go to a high school far away to make high school life better for the students who go there not for Alma's sake, but for the sake of the high school and for the sake of the pupils who go there. Isn't that a slippery slope?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140416-2	No, but that's not true either. Well, we feel today that all young people can't go to the same high schools. There is an extremely large search for some high schools, so many who want to go there. I understand that many would like that. Among other things: there are a lot of young people in the West region who also want to enter the popular high schools. They can't come because they live closer to the high schools in the West. Now we have taken some steps to get a slightly better distribution. A lot of people, most people, because after all they distribute a little bit, get their first, second or third priority. There are also some who will not have it. What has now been introduced is a principle of subsidiarity that you get a gymnasium closer and not part of a completely random drawing of lots. We appreciate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140507	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140508	It is the case that for some high schools there is more search than there are places, and since there is no majority in this country that will give the high schools more money and allow them to expand when they are sought by many pupils, one has to say that only those who are now able to make room for them and then they are said that they are the ones who live closest to them are the ones who are right. It's a practical thing Now we're going to an ideological She shouldn't have a high school for her own sake; she's going to a high school for that high school or for the classmates she's going to go with there. Is it not a slippery slope that Alma's own needs are not taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140551	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140552	I agree that today there is a practical solution that does not work it no longer works because there are a lot of high schools in the outermost regions that are being emptied and there are high schools as close to the large cities as the Western Region is being emptied. Then you can choose to say that then the high schools that are popular must just get the money and build eight floors upstairs; I do not think that is a practically proper solution. That is why we have gone constructively into a solution that says that this will solve the problem in the longer term. Everyone doesn't get what they want, but a lot of people do; and we have to go a little more in high school with each other, so the division, the division of Denmark that we have seen, doesn't continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140635	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140637	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. Now I'd like to go over to a climate talk. In his speech, the Prime Minister said that we have reached two thirds of the road compared to a 70-percent reduction by 2030. But a large part of that path is of course strategies and ideas that are on paper. So my first question here is: is it enough for the Radical Left and will the rapporteur confirm that the Climate Council, in its progress report from this year, has criticised the government for counting too many uncertain potentials in its inventory of how many reductions have actually been achieved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140712	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140713	No, that is not enough; there is not enough action and not enough implementation, and we fight like small horses every day for more to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140726	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140727	I'm glad to hear it. After all, this morning there were many protesters out here protesting that too little is happening. Every Thursday we have climate activists, and we have grandparents' activists, etc. So would it also be the answer to them if the rapporteur were standing before them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140750	Yes, of course I expect that all of us will answer that question. There is too little happening and too little has happened. There have been incredibly many fine visions, and there have been a few more of them lately. Fortunately, however, some implementation and action is now under way, for example with the agreement with the other EU countries on the North Sea the other day. It's super good at last! So something has happened since we sat in 2019 and said energy islands and we were looked at incredibly strangely, and until now. But there is far too much, far too much again, in terms of achieving our goal. I fully agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140822	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140825	Thank you. I'd also like to ask you about the forced distribution of high school students. I believe that there are many of us who find it difficult to understand the principle that the Radical Left will contribute to the distribution of high school pupils according to their parents' income. I am elected in North Jutland, and it is the case that in Aalborg you are very close to being within this distribution zone, but fortunately you just get outside the distribution zone, and that means that your parents' income is not going to have an impact on your secondary school choices. I would like to hear from the Radical Left whether they will guarantee that Aalborg will not enter this distribution zone in the future, so there are even more high school students who will have to be forced into the income of their parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523140916	That is how we have now distributed it in relation to the zones. It is quite true that it is within those areas where there are particularly great challenges and where there have been the very long challenges that we in the Danish Parliament have to face, because we have not solved them, and the problems have just got bigger and bigger. These are problems which we should like to put in quotation marks, because it is of course a question of many, many young people now going on youth education. There are a lot of young people with other ethnic backgrounds who attend high school. I hope the questioner and I can agree on that is a huge success. This means that there will be a larger division with colleges with a great many young people with other ethnic backgrounds and colleges, where there are only young people with ethnic Danish backgrounds. They need to go to high school together more. That is the policy of the Radical Left and we want to take part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141008	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141008-2	Does this mean, however, that if the development takes place in such a way that there is a different distribution between the high schools in Aalborg, will the Radical Left help to expand the zone in the future, so that Aalborg actually falls within the distribution zone, or will the Radical Left not be involved in Aalborg coming within the distribution zone in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141031	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141032	Now it's this deal that's here, and there's even a lot of time for it. It must first come into force, and then it must work before there is anything else that needs to be looked at. But then you have to face challenges all the time around the country. That is what we have neglected to do here in the Folketing in everything, too many years, and that is why we are addressing it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141056	Then it's mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141100	Thank you. I stay a little at the high school, but not in the big cities, because I have been elected in West Jutland, and we have actually seen the contours of what this challenge is that we are looking into in about a year's time. 35 students from Herning Municipality could not get admission to the high school in Herning, already this year. That is why I have spoken to a great many of these high school students, and one of the things I have really realised is that they are not looking at distance, they are not looking at socio-economics; they are looking at what they are doing in studies, the individual high school offers and what they are related to in some places such as leisure jobs, leisure activities, etc. etc. Does the rapporteur from the Radical Left not think that we have failed in not thinking any of the young people's personal considerations into the algorithm to be created now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141154	But it is still the case that if you have a desire for a higher school which is further away but which you would like to go to, because there are some special things that you would like to do, it is also included; there is room for that, also in this agreement, to a great extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141208	Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141210	Thank you. However, the rapporteur does not actually quite answer what I am asking. I ask whether we are not now creating an algorithm in which we do not take care of what kind of desires the young person really wants, what considerations each young person has made. We create a system, but we don't look at the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141230	It would be great if you could do something where each young person received the individual treatment. That is not the case today, and I do not think we can do it either, because, as I said, there are a lot of high schools that are popular for some years, and then it changes to some others. I don't think a solution is for us to build eight floors upstairs. However, young people who want something further away will be taken into account, because their priorities are, after all, some of the first priorities. That's where we get problems with making up some places and too many people want the same thing, that we have to distribute in some other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141307	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141310	SF has proposed to compensate some of those who are being hardest hit by the inflation increases we are seeing right now. After all, as we have also spoken about today in the debate, some wild figures are historically close to 7% inflation compared to last year. An average family is going to spend 30,000 kroner. This is an amount which many people simply do not have in their room for manoeuvre. Will the Radical Left help to find some money to make a temporary compensation for some of those who just have no money? After all, we are in the Ministry of Employment right now negotiating to create more long-term solutions in relation to some of those who are on poverty benefits. But here and now there are people who, in the worst case scenario, have to choose between buying drugs and buying proper food for their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141409	Yes to long-term solutions to a new system of benefits so that we can get rid of poverty benefits. This should apply quite quickly, including now and here. I think that would be incredibly fine if we found out for those who have the very least in Denmark. They are the ones on poverty benefits, and they are not the ones that have been proposed. We would really like to be involved, so I fully acknowledge that it is really difficult in these times of high inflation, when many people get a lower level of availability. This is true in Denmark, and it is even worse many, many other places in the world. Fortunately, we are quite well off here because we have such a healthy economy, and I am deeply concerned that we continue to have it, because otherwise it will hit the most vulnerable. So I think we should get a solution for those who are on poverty benefits and who have the very least, and then we should take responsibility for having a long-term responsible economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141510	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141511	But with all due respect, no matter how fast we close an agreement, it won't apply this year, and it's here and now that people don't have that money. Well, there are lots of families who don't have 30,000 kroner. extra to do well in a year. And that's why I'm just asking Radical Left if you'd like to take a look at some tax increases or look at a new tax. We are in an extraordinary situation and we have used the room for manoeuvre on welfare just in terms of demography, and we are going to use the deficit limit for military expenditure. We simply need to do something extra.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141550	I do not see how we are raising the tax right now, when inflation is just rising so as to make it harder for even more. I am always concerned about how we can actually help in the most sustainable, long-term way, so that it does not worsen our economy and therefore make it much harder for the most vulnerable. And I hope that we will be able to reach an agreement that will end poverty benefits. It would really suit us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141620	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141624	Thank you for that and thank you to the Chairman of the Radical Left for the rapporteur's speech. I was looking for something very important for a bourgeois party. I'm afraid I didn't find that, so that's why I'm gonna have to talk about this. It's our companies. Where were they in that speech? They were completely gone, I think. And we have plenty of talented companies to participate in the development of the society of the future. I think it is absolutely essential that the good ideas that are out there are supported by policies that provide labour and capital. And that's the last thing I want to talk about here. Because we have a government that proposes to raise the stock tax repeatedly, and Radicals agrees. I can't believe you don't make any more demands on the government than you do on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141716	I think sir... Kim Valentin is wrong. Radicals don't agree with that. That's why it hasn't happened. And the companies were not in the speech because it was about Europe and about the world, which is so incredibly important also for Danish business, i.e. how we act out there. But if I had had even more time, then I have talked about how important it is for a healthy economy that we have companies that have good conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141742	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141743	Well, then I can tell you that the stock tax is rising both this year and next year, and that is why it could be assumed that Radicals are helping to put it back down as soon as possible. However, Europe and the world are our companies, so there was plenty of room to lead our companies into that speech. It was just something you forgot, and I'm a little disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141810	In other words, the Radical Left has not made any decisions to increase the share tax while we have supported this government. On the contrary, we have prevented the government from implementing a number of proposals in this area. I do not sense that it will be expressed in gratitude from the rapporteur, let it be. But companies are incredibly important. There were many things I did not get into my speech in the time I had. When I chose to give priority to Europe and the world, it is because we are in an extraordinary situation, which is also important for Danish business and Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141848	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141849	Thank you. Nor was there anything about Lynetteholm, even though the rapporteur mentioned the Denmark we should be. There are various radicals who have expressed their views on this project, among others. Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen Mia Nyegaard written: All homes and workplaces must be in cycling distance from the bridge neighbourhoods and the inner city and within walking distance of bathing and fishing water. It's gonna be amazingly attractive. And further: Lynetteholm will also mean a great boost and greening of infrastructure in Denmark. If it's the case that this new town is going to be such that everything is in cycling distance, why does Copenhagen need a traffic-creating port tunnel? Can we not agree that the best way to ease the strain is to develop public transport, by co-driving, by doing cycling? Then why not? Isn't it time we stopped this harbor tunnel? The rapporteur stressed that there were young people who called for action on the part of adults. Isn't this a subject where you should act a little differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523141955	I am actually glad that there is now a pause here so that all sorts of things can be examined a little more thoroughly. Basically, I believe that the rapporteur and I agree that that decision was taken quite quickly by the Left and the Socialists, in other words on the whole project. That doesn't make it any less important. We in the Radical Left are going to work to make it as green as possible on all parameters. I would like them to come from among other things. Our elected representatives in Copenhagen also have a role to play in influencing that decision. But more public transport, including metro, and much more green opportunities, yes, we must work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142040	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142041	In the City of Copenhagen's analysis of the possibilities of establishing a car-free or partially car-free Lynetteholm, it says in black and white that in the case of traffic congestion in other areas there is no need for a port tunnel at all. Does the rapporteur agree that this dumping of sludge, which has been paused, should be extended to include the planning of the port tunnel, which must be paused, because that is how I understood the first answer? Is it a break for all the elements in Lynetteholm that the Radicals are in favour of?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142117	No, it is in relation to this dumping which we have really been criticizing, and that is why we are very pleased about it. But the whole environmental assessment of this seems to me to be very sensible to have done thoroughly. I would also very much like to listen to arguments in relation to the green district, the car-free district. These are also arguments that we in the Radical Left have put forward, so this could be an opportunity. But as I say, I think that those involved in it, among other things. Our members in Copenhagen's citizens' representation must help make such a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142154	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142156	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech and thank you for your cooperation during the year. I would also very much like to acknowledge that the Radical Left helped ensure that there is a majority in favour of abolishing the phantom tax. And thank you for talking about freedom and community, that is an important speech. The other day, the Radical Left promised that it would ensure that students could secure their place at the upper secondary school they live nearest to. You haven't delivered that with this amendment. After all, there is still the possibility of getting further away and that it is just on parents' income that you are being forced into it. Speaking of freedom and community on the big blade, I think that a lot of people sit at home at the dining table and talk about it all the way down here exactly where it's all about: Where do I go to high school when I go? Why does freedom and community not apply to the Radical Left in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142246	Thank you for the question and juhu a question from Mona Juul. I am always so happy when Mona Juul, with her enthusiasm, is also here in the Chamber, also about things that we basically disagree about. I think we are here. Because it is true that a principle of proximity has been introduced now, and we have worked hard for this, and that is why transport time has been reduced and many more, if they do not get one of their priorities, will be given the opportunity to get in close. It is really important and has been it instead of drawing lots, which was rather random. So it's a good thing it's been included. That is also why the leaders of the high schools, the teachers of the high schools and the pupils of the high schools in their association support the need to find a solution. That is because the existing situation is not a solution; it does not give freedom and well-being to everyone. There is a huge challenge that we have not solved, and that is why we support it in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142350	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142351	Well, it's not like all high schools support this deal in any way whatsoever. It is also the case that after the agreement, as I understand it, you cannot switch from the high school you have chosen if you have been forced on the basis of your parents' income. The private colleges have put this ceiling on grants, and so it is that students cannot get there, and their commercial high school continues to be subject to forced distribution. So I really do not have a question here, because I think that Radicals meant it earlier when you said that this was important; it was important that you could get to a high school close to yourself. I know that Radicals have spoken many times about themselves as the tongue on the scales, so I actually just have a call: out with your tongue and down on that scales on the right side.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142434-2	Yes, and we have now put our weights in by amending the agreement so that there is a principle of subsidiarity so that there is no more lottery, and so that we tackle the problem because it has piled up. It has been here for many, many years, and we have failed in the Folketing by not solving this challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142455	Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142458	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I actually think that we who are in here can come to maybe without really wanting to close ourselves a little bit about ourselves and get to discuss very agreeable. That is why I would like to put a question to the rapporteur, whom I have drawn from a meeting in which I attended the participation of ordinary citizens and businessmen. They told me: You must understand that it has become much more expensive to be a Dane in Denmark and it has become much more expensive to run a business. Therefore, I would just like to pass on one question to the radical rapporteur: does the rapporteur agree that the policy pursued during this period of government has contributed to the fact that it has become more expensive to be a Dane and more expensive to operate in Denmark? I'll give you the answer myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142541	No, I do not fundamentally agree with that. There are some things that have become more expensive, among other things. prices are currently rising extremely, and that means that it is becoming more expensive. But it is not a policy that I voted for. We have just eased the tax on labour with an employment allowance. I'm glad. It is the policy of the Radical Left that for the things we want more of, for example, work, we must try to ease taxes and for what we want less of, for example CO2 that is the balance of it. This is not an ideology for us. It is about being able to run a business in Denmark, but also about being able to attract a lot of talented people that it takes money to train. That's all that stuff. That is the balance we are considering.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142645	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142646	Perhaps I forgot to tell the rapporteur that the meeting took place in South Jutland. I would therefore like to say that I do not think I can come home with that answer if I want to hope to be re-elected. They will probably say that you were not satisfied with that; you asked whether they could not put a figure on it, because as we see it, it has become more expensive for us to do business, and if the radical rapporteur says that it is not, the radical rapporteur must put a figure on it. Will the radical rapporteur do so so so that I can give them a more comprehensive answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142717	I can't quantify that. We have raised some charges, and the questioner knows that very well, so the questioner must become a little more specific. Is that the cigarette tax that the questioner is thinking about? What is the questioner thinking about when it should be such a concrete answer to the voters of the questioner in South Jutland? I am quite sure that the questioner himself will come up with a proper answer. Of course, there are some things that have become more expensive. There are also some things that are becoming more expensive now, without it being because of a choice we have made here in the Folketing. Then there is something that is drawing in the other direction, for example lower tax on work with a greater employment allowance. I'm really proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142757	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142759	I would like to ask about economic policy. It was, of course, the case that Radicals were very concerned about the fact that it said that it was necessary to ensure that there were enough reforms that secured enough hands in the labour market. With Denmark, the government could have stopped the hole it had created, but not really more than that. That is why my question to the rapporteur of the Radicals is whether the Radicals are satisfied with the progress made in labour market reforms and in securing labour in Denmark. In other words, it has to be said that the economy is crying out for labour at the moment. So what do Radicals see as the future perspective here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142837	There is such a lack of labour, and we are jumping around and saying that in all sorts of contexts here and there, including to the Left, which we hope will help to find more foreign labour now that the Socialists have finally moved to where it is actually possible to receive more international labour. However, I fully agree with the questioner: much more is needed to ensure that we have a healthy economy, especially in the long term, but also now and here. Both in the private sector and in the public sector, people are lacking. There is simply not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142912	Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142914	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased to hear the rapporteur say that, but I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur expect this to be something the government will listen to? For the next reform, Denmark can be smaller II..., does not provide for greater labour supply. So is this something you expect to happen more about, or is the government like getting off the hook now, because it has delivered a little bit in Denmark can less 1? I mean, isn't it supposed to deliver any more?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523142941	The questioner can be quite calm: the government will never get off the corner of reform when the Radical Left is on board. We will continue to see to that. But the reality is that this is something we have to resolve together, because, just as when Mrs Schack Elholm and the Left sat in government, there was a support party that for a number of years six years, as far as I remember, would not allow the bourgeois government to carry out anything in terms of providing labour, there are also wings that support this government that do not want to do so. So we have to figure it out together over the middle. We should take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143015	The last one asking, we're gonna make it in this round, is Mrs. Halime Oguz, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143020	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. I would like to know whether the Radical Left still believes that the money, in other words our welfare crowns, for minimum standards can be drawn out for personal gain rather than going to what they are meant to do, namely the children who go to private institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143041	Thank you for that question. I am deeply concerned that these children will have the best solutions at all, and I am not so concerned about whether it is private or public. I am concerned that nobody cheats on public crowns, as it were, with other things, but in particular with what is being supported by public funds. Whether you reinvest it in one way or another in a private daycare institution, I am not so concerned about it. I am concerned that there is no cheating and fraud, and then I am concerned that the children will have the very best solutions, and if you can do so for the same money in some other way in private day care institutions, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143122	Mrs. Halime Oguz, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143123	Thank you for that, but that is not quite what my question was about. My question was whether the money earmarked for minimum standards should go for personal gain. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143137	Yeah, I heard that, and I thought I answered that, too. For what is it? What will personal gain say: that you are paid, that you are paid a little better, or that you are reinvesting some of it in opportunities and development? I think that is fine, and I am not interfering with what you pay in pay or in bonuses or other things. But I'm concerned that you don't cheat on the money and that you get at least as much for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143203	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. The time has passed and that means that we move on to the next rapporteur, Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523143216	Thank you. We are in a time of fate in more than one way. There is war in Europe, climate change is threatening, and after several good years we run the risk that the economy is heading in the wrong direction with inflation and signs of crisis, and perhaps we are even risking rising unemployment in the long term. That is the reality of our economic system: the crises are coming back. The most important thing is what we're going to do in here. Darker times call for political leadership, courage, clear priorities, because it is not political leadership to let development take its course. In good times we politicians can lurk into a false notion that all interests can be taken into account without costing anything to anyone that we can give in bags and bags. And the last few years have generally been good. We have been able to prioritise climate action, expand welfare and create more security for many. Now the wheel of history is turning again, and we may be moving towards more serious times. It requires new active choices. Claus Hjort Frederiksen had a legendary sign standing in his office when he was Minister of Finance. It said: Where should the money come from? We see a situation in which the largest banks and the richest families in Denmark have added billions to their profits and wealth after a time of crisis, while cash benefits recipients, early retirement workers and flex jobs have to see their benefits reduced every year. That is the way it is, someone might have said, but it is simply too poor in a rich country like Denmark, especially for a red majority. We are elected to deal with the conditions of ordinary people and to fight for those who are having difficulty; we must deliver results for a fairer and equal society. In my opinion, that is our raison d'être. In the Enhedslisten, our priorities are clear. While others will spend many billions on more weapons, we will put the climate first and turn the necessary climate action up dramatically. We will give tax relief at the bottom, clean up a cynical and inhuman employment system and lift the benefits so that no one grows up in poverty in a rich country like Denmark. We want to expand welfare so that dentists, prescription medicines and psychological care become new tax-financed welfare rights for everyone. We will spend money on accepting refugees and giving them good lives here in Denmark and on development aid so that we can build a more equal and fair world. Where's that money gonna come from? Well, Enhedslisten's answer is clear: they must come from those who have the most wealthy in our society. The alternative to a fairer redistribution is to see inequality slipping away and the welfare society crackling apart, to accept that there will be longer between the top and bottom, to let go, while our small society is changing to something else and more insecure, to something that we risk not being able to recognise. That is also why we are in a time of fate that will show us what our political compass really looks like. I am infinitely happy to have gotten away from the VLAK tax relief for the very richest for private aircraft, for yachts and for expensive cars. It was unfair, it was unsustainable, it was unwise. But I also have the feeling that the Socialists lack the will to fight for those who have the least. And it's frustratingly difficult to pressure you into making real changes and improvements. Frankly, I doubt: Is the red conscience withering? Is the foundation cracking? Does the center pull so hard that it pulls the social compass all wrong? I am worried about this, because every morning thousands of children look up in Denmark and embark on another day when poverty spreads their life opportunities, another day when their parents are whipped around in a brutal employment system with no prospect of getting jobs or without the prospect of peace. It can be felt, it forms life, and it destroys opportunities. If there is a crisis, it will probably apply to even more children. We should not put up with that in one of the richest societies in the world. The problems of poverty do not go away by itself, but we can solve them if we want to. It is all about political will and political priorities. For many ordinary people looking at the political system from outside, it can be difficult to understand that some things are quite impossible to find money for, even though they seem both fair and fair. Meanwhile, a political majority in here over the night can find almost 18 billion. kr. more a year to military and arms money that could never come on the table to the disability area, psychiatry, equal pay or to combat devastating climate change. They can be conjured up when it comes to weapons, gunpowder and bullets. In the Enhedslisten we believe that very rarely more peace can be achieved with weapons, gunpowder and bullets. That is also why we say no to sending out our common treasures and young people on many of the EU's deeply problematic missions. It should be clear that the EU's military cooperation is not about close defence. But what is not certain is how many missions a majority in here will send us on and how many tax dollars will be sent off to it. Climate policy is another area in which we have to recognise that we cannot have the whole thing to give priority. Indeed, the green transition means that something has to change. Green objectives, commotions or cliques are not enough in politics. We must be honest: the green transition costs, it requires priorities and it is going to hurt someone. We will not have a positive change if nothing changes just thundering climate change. But we can do it wisely and well. We just cannot protect both the planet and the biggest polluters if we do not have to miss the green transition. Therefore, the time is not for discounts to the biggest emitters; the time is for action. If we do not dare to demand the conversion of those who have the most, the economic bill ends with ordinary people, and the climate bill ends with the world's poorest. It's as simple as that. I believe in a world where more of those who create the values get a bigger share in them, where they should not see the fruit of their work go to the top, to the elite, while they themselves fight to get the ends to meet. Such a society and such a world does not come by itself. It takes action and change. It is time to be honest about reality. We cannot buy the whole world, as I think Thor Pedersen should have said that we could, we should make decisions and choices about how society should look and who should pay. That is the essence of politics. In my view, the Blue Block will pursue politics for the richest in society; red block should be a clear alternative. During this period we have had many great victories that point in a new direction, but it takes more of us if we are to create a strong and secure welfare society for all and we really must arm the inequality. We must not just administer society; we must change it. That requires priorities. So we're at a crossroads: let's turn left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144151	Thank you. We shall begin with the brief remarks. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144154	Thank you for that and thank you very much to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. After all, it is a frightening starting line that we must not only influence society, but also control it. At least that's how I heard it. Does the Enhedslisten recognise that Putin and Russia's aggression against Ukraine and that the behaviour generally seen by Putin and Russia at the moment is the single biggest security threat to the free world, including Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144231	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144232	Nice new break. Is it not irresponsible, then, that the Enhedslisten continues to believe that in the long term I am in favour of this being the case in the long term, that it is not just this week that we should resign from NATO, as if anyone were the guarantor of peace and freedom in our part of the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144250	In the Enhedslisten, we believe that Denmark should be part of a defence cooperation and be part of NATO, but we want a different NATO or another defence alliance, and we continue to talk about this because we have some criticisms that I do not just think should be completely unpacked, even though the President of the Left is absolutely right in the security threat. I am very concerned when I see one of the allies in NATO, Erdogan, say to the Swedes that one of their MEPs must be sent to Turkey if they want to be a member. They're allies I'm worried about being with. And then I am concerned about the spiral of armament that NATO is also contributing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144333	Thank you. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144336	Congratulations to Enhedslisten on your new EU policy. When you are SFs, it is amazing to see that we are now two socialist parties that regard the European Union as a battleground, a playing field where battles are to be won. But was it not a little obvious that defence cooperation was also considered to be a game course for winning matches? I am surprised when the Enhedslisten has now got this fine progressive attitude towards EU cooperation and what we can do with it, that this does not also apply to defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144415	Thank you for your congratulations and, in general, thank you for the cooperation that we have here, but also in the European Parliament. We appreciate that very much. I believe that there is the fundamental difference between the SF and the Enhedsliste that we do not really want the European Union to become a military cooperation. We never wanted that. We want climate cooperation and cooperation in peace, but we very rarely believe that offensive military operations around the world bring a great deal of peace. We are also very concerned that the Treaty and the PESCO cooperation, which I understand the SF would also like to join us, say that they are being imposed on countries to continue and to cease to arm militaryly. Because we don't believe that, and I didn't think it was the SF's policy either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144508	Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144509	I still think that, although we may have problems in military conflict areas, it is worth going into the fight to move things in the right direction. That is what I hear, after all, that Enhedslisten has concluded at their annual meeting. Now I'm a dance teacher, and I'm not very good at ball metaphors, but I'll try again. If we consider the European Union to be a playing field, will we win more games on the playing field called European defence cooperation by being on the field or outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144543	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144543-2	Well, I fear that if it becomes a yes on 1 June, then it will not end up being SF or Enhedslisten who will be those who dictate what is going to happen in this area. I think it will be other parties who will say that we must, at full speed over the playing field, contribute to some missions which I do not believe are a guarantee of peace and security, and I therefore believe and hope that we will vote no on 1 June. I think that is essential. Because I am extremely concerned about what else it will mean and what we in Denmark should contribute to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144621	Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144622	I would have asked a little on the same street as the SF rapporteur, so I am just asking to be a little more clever about it, because some of the answer has come, namely that there is no desire for EU cooperation on defence and security. In the past, it has also been said that the Enhedslisten does not want to be part of NATO. So I just want to ask: what is it for international cooperation that Enhedslisten wants to participate in, and which parts of them can also guarantee Denmark's security? How are you gonna work for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144653	Well, part of our criticism of NATO is actually the same as we have on the issue of EU military cooperation, because we do not think, in general terms, that military cooperation should basically take place outside the countries to be defended. That is the basic criticism for me. We have been extremely critical of some of the offensive operations that NATO has been part of, it is also part of our NATO criticism and we will be working to ensure that it is not so forward-looking. That is also why we are very concerned about the turn taken by the European Union's military cooperation, which has, of course, been about and which is going to be more about military offensive operations in the world. I think, for example, that we should instead contribute to the European Union's civilian missions or to the United Nations, where we have almost a bottom-scraper placement, which I think is quite embarrassing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144745	Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144746	I would also very much like us to contribute more to the European Union's civilian missions, just as we also have good cooperation to ensure more development aid, which the rapporteur did not mention, but which I also assume is one of the party's suggestions on how we can ensure more stability. However, the challenge is that the civilian and military have been merged more closely into the European Union, or rather, it is not a challenge, but it will be when we have a reservation that prevents us from entering all those areas where there is also something military at stake. Does Mrs Mai Villadsen accept the challenge that if you only want to participate in the civilian and have a reservation about the military, we cannot participate where things are being merged?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144821	No, not quite. I believe that it is 9 out of 11 civilian missions that Denmark is contributing to already, as the European Union has, so it is not, of course, because we are just standing back and cannot contribute. And perhaps I also think that this defence reserve debate has somewhat drawn some pictures of the fact that as a country we are not engaged at all militarily, and that is not true. We are very much out there in the world and we are also present in some places where I do not think we should be. Otherwise, I would like to sign for cooperation on development policy in particular. That is very important, I know, for the Radical Left, and it is also for us in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144852	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144854	Thank you. It will be a bit on the same street, because I am also a little confused when the rapporteur says that the European Union is not part of defence cooperation. And if I may just give you an example, which is one of the things I am familiar with: in Afghanistan, we had both a NATO mission and an EU mission. To put it a little square, NATO was the hard military muscle; the EU mission was soft as justice, anti-corruption. And everything else equal, it should be one of those things that Enhedslisten would also find sympathetic. It is not the case that the two things are counterpoles; on the contrary, they complement each other. So why is it that we are positive about NATO, but not about the great work that the European Union is doing in the missions around the world, among other things. in terms of building a judicial system and anti-corruption?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523144939-2	But we are also relatively positive about this, and it is not because we think that all the civilian missions that are being carried out around the world are necessarily bad, but the military ones we are extremely concerned about. And I'm really worried that there will be a majority in here throwing Denmark into many more missions with weapons, gunpowder and bullets, such as you. Did with Afghanistan, which we in the Enhedslist didn't think was right. And I just think, unfortunately, that the pictures from down there right now speak their clear language. It has created more uncertainty, instability, poverty, more terrorism, a stronger Taliban and I think that is awful.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145020	Marcus Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145022	Well, then, if I may take a more topical example as the EU monitoring mission in Georgia, where there are literally Russian soldiers on the other side. It is, of course, a task that NATO would not be able to solve, because it would probably be a little too provocative. Or the European Union's mission in the Balkans, where we cannot participate. We all hope that there will soon be peace in Ukraine and that there will be an EU mission with military hats in Ukraine to help bring peace and stability. It would be sad if Denmark could not participate there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145052	I mean, Denmark has, for example. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Lugansk People's Republic'. You can sort of just grab the bone, just like the Prime Minister did, and send machines down to build the country, send money down to bomb clearance, like you did just a month ago. So it is not because Denmark cannot cooperate; although of course there are also some cooperation that has some fine intentions. I'm just worried about what this ends up in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145122	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145125	Thank you. I should like to know whether Enhedslisten acknowledges that according to the methods of calculation used to make finance laws and which Denmark's Statistics uses and which are used for other purposes, inequality has increased in Denmark under the current government, and whether Enhedslisten acknowledges that if we look at what we call the standard of living, i.e. the disposable income, it has fallen for nine out of ten of the income reserves in which Denmark's Statistics and the Ministry of Finance divide the income groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145157-2	Measured by the Gini Coefficient, you can then discuss how right-wing it is for the reality of reality is the answer yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145206	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145207	The Gini coefficient is an expression of inequality and inequality has increased. That's what we're measuring, otherwise we're all gonna have to figure out what we're gonna measure by, and then it's gonna be a subjective assessment. So that's the standard we're measuring by. Does the Enhedslisten also agree that the government's policies in isolation have meant that nine out of ten income groups, and only the second highest income group, have actually received more and have received a higher standard of living, now have less disposable income? Those who have actually lost the most under this government with the policies pursued and the legislative proposals adopted are the ones who have the least?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145242	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145243	That's why we weren't part of the agreement on Denmark can more I... which took the green check from especially the cash benefits recipients and in return gave an employment allowance to people who have more money. I think that is deeply problematic. That is why it is so important that we have a proper performance agreement, so that those who have the least in our society actually get some money. I think we owe that to red parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145304	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145306	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. In his speech, the Prime Minister said that we had reached two thirds of the road compared to a 70-percent reduction by 2030, and in their recent report the Climate Council has criticised the fact that it relies too much on strategies and ideas that are not tangible, and we can actually see it in the Agriculture Agreement, where the vast majority of the reduction is based on theory and the development trail. So is the rapporteur satisfied with that development?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145343	Thank you. I think that anyone who followed the debate on the Agriculture Agreement also heard how we on the Enhedslisten were some of the toughest critics of exactly what the rapporteur describes, which is, of course, a push of CO2 I have such a hope that the technologies can really, very much help, but it worries me if we simply hang our hats on it. That is also why, when I look into the negotiations we are in right now, about green tax reform, I am incredibly worried that really, very many of the CO2 so yes, we are worried on an equal footing with the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145435	Here you go, Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145436	Thank you. I'm glad. I'm not surprised either. In other words, unlike the Free Greens, you agreed to this as we went out of the agricultural agreement. And now some other agreements are under way. Anyway, is there a red line? Will the Enhedslisten continue to hold hands under the government, or may it be that at some point you say this is too much or too little?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145501	Yes, of course there is if we no longer believe that we can actually achieve the climate targets, but we still believe in and fight for that, and we will fight for that in the negotiating room. That is also why we included in the Agriculture Agreement, because we think it is important that a green watchdog like the Enhedslist sits in the forward-looking negotiations. But worried, I am on behalf of everyone when I see how it develops with the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145527	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145529	Thank you. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that it was important to settle the issue of inequality. When you think that Enhedslisten is holding the crucial mandates of this government, several others, including the rapporteur, have mentioned it earlier today, you just wonder really, very much. For the consequence of the policy pursued is that there has been more inequality in Denmark, and then perhaps it is just something that Enhedslisten talks about, but nothing that Enhedslisten intends to do something about. I recognise that something has not been included in Enhedslisten, but there are so many of the things that have contributed to increasing inequality for which Enhedslisten has voted. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145613	I mean, it's so connected that we haven't given up, that we're negotiating services right now and that we're working on a result that reduces inequality. But it is also the case that some of the things that the Left and other parties claim to increase inequality are also more nuanced than that. This is true, for example. the temporary child benefit, which is money you like to beat the government to distribute to a lot of unemployed people. It is not calculated in the Gini coefficient because it is not a permanent agreement. When you look at e.g. the question that we have given a free dentist to some young people or help in other ways in our welfare society, you see that it is not something that bons out either. When you look at cigarette taxes, you see that it is nothing, but on the other hand it increases the equality of society, even if it gives less disposable income, and I am happy about that. The same is true with the increase in plastic bag fees and much more. I think that is a wise environmental policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145716	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145716-2	Well, that's very little. When you have to deal with specific proposals, then it serves a different purpose, and then the inequality was just not so important anyway. And then it just sounds hollow. Ginicoefficient is something you talk dunder against when it's a blue government, and Ginicoefficient cannot really be used for anything when it's a red government. Well, I just hope that Enhedslisten can see the hypocrisy. Can I just make one final specific question? President Very briefly!). A couple with three children will receive a total of DKK 466,800. in public services. Should that amount be greater or less?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145758	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145759	I would just like to say to the rapporteur that we certainly think that the increase in inequality is problematic, that this is something we must do something about and that it is something we are doing something about right now and have not given up on. But yes, there are other agreements that can be sensible. There are, for example: In this context, it should be noted that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of medicinal products for human use, as well as the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions That's very reasonable. This increases inequality, but I do not think it is a problem for the individual family. And Ginifundamentalists we've never been.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145836	Sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145838	Thank you. I have followed with great interest the annual meeting of Enhedslisten, which was not long ago, and, like Mrs Valentina Berthelsen, I also welcome the fact that there are forces in the Enhedslisten who have wanted Enhedslisten to have an EU policy that might be a little more similar to SF's. I think this is a good thing, because the European Union is an important battleground for combating climate change and ensuring a fair refugee policy, etc. But I must also say that when I have so much thought about it and not only looked at the headlines of the media, but also at what has actually been adopted, I am actually slightly in doubt about where it really is Enhedslisten. Because you write directly in your adoption and I quote here: "Therefore it is necessary that Enhedslisten maintain the perspective of a Danish withdrawal from the EU." Therefore, I just want to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur, whether it means that Enhedslisten still wants to withdraw from the EU, but just doesn't want it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523145939	Well, it's nice that the rapporteurs for SF are enthusiastic about Enhedslisten's policy and follow our annual meetings. You are also so welcome to visit if you wish. In relation to our policy in the EU area, the Enhedslisten does not believe that Denmark is an end in itself, that it should leave the EU. It's not a goal. It is clear that if policy fundamentally changes in the European Union, blocking the climate action that is necessary or blocking the economic policy we are doing in the Folketing, then it may well be that there should be a different and better cooperation. I guess the SF thinks that, too, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150020	Sir. Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150020-2	Fair enough. I still have a little doubt as to what the specific policy is. There are slightly different reasons for this. Now I was sitting, for example. right here earlier today and looked at the People's Movement against the EU website. There I see that it still says that the Enhedslisten are collective members of the People's Movement against the European Union. Are you going to keep doing that? And does it make sense to be collective members of the People's Movement against the European Union while they have now become supporters of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150053	It's actually a little embarrassing, but I just don't know if we are. I am trying to look down desperately on my colleagues down in the Chamber, so I am not aware of that. However, I would like to say one thing that will still be important to the Enhedslisten, and that is that we maintain our criticism when the European Union goes in the opposite direction of what is needed, for example. in the area of climate change. For the rapporteur and I have also been in different negotiating situations and have seen how the European Union has blocked an announcement, yes, thank you, for a ban on fossil cars now and here or very soon. We're gonna hold onto that in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150130	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150132	I would like to ask questions about Enhedslisten's climate policy. I am pleased that Mrs Mai Villadsen says in the rapporteur's speech that the funding of climate action is important, that the green conversion costs. We in the Left believe that we must have green growth; we believe that we need to make economic reforms so that we can actually afford the green transition and so that we become a genuinely green pioneer country. And that is why it is also important for us in a green tax agreement that at the same time we ensure that we have better conditions of competition for Danish business. I would therefore like to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether they will refuse to participate in an agreement on green tax reform, which at the same time provides tax relief for Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150217	I would certainly think it was a stupid agreement, because the whole of the hops in making a green tax reform is, of course, that we need to get some money in, but that hopefully they should fall as CO2 but what you want from V and K is to make a tax relief that is lasting, even if the income you get will not necessarily be. I think that is a very, very irresponsible economic policy, and I think you owe it to me to explain how this is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150249	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150250	How will Enhedslisten ensure that we become a genuinely green pioneer country if we get worse conditions for our business; if a CO2 Can't Enhedslisten see that it will be hard to be a real green pioneer country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150312	No, I think that there should be more burdens on that part of the business community that stands for a CO2 2 So, no, I think it is wise climate policy, and that is what we sit in the room to do, not business policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150339	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150340	Thanks for the speech. I thought it was a really good speech, and it was a pleasure to hear about this where we're going as a community. I think we could discuss that more often. Therefore, I just want to ask what is really the most important thing for Enhedslisten. Is it most important for Enhedslisten to raise the ambitions from welfare and perhaps make a big plan for children and young people, or is it most important for Enhedslisten to prevent us from making the financial decisions that need to be made so that we can actually make such a big plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150410	First of all, I would like to thank you for your cooperation, and then I would like to say that I think it is a rather polemical and misplaced presentation of that issue. Indeed, in the Enhedslisten, we think that we can finance an increase in welfare in a sensible economic way, namely by asking those who have the most and who have been given tax gifts for decades to contribute more to our society. That's how we think you should finance it, and it's just not getting in the way of finding the money. It's finding the money yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150440	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150441	In fact, I am serious about my question because I fully agree that the Enhedslisten will not come and propose reforms itself, but I would dream that we could agree in here on a national compromise from children and young people, and that we could actually do what was needed to make a real boost for children and young people. And then Enhedslisten can come into the very specific situation where you have to decide whether you want to help make a big plan for children and young people, or whether you would rather be outside because you do not want to be involved in economic reforms where you find both the money and the people who need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150513	It is mistaken to believe that Enhedslisten does not want to make reforms. In fact, I said in my speech that we would like to make reforms, but we think that those reforms should take the money from the people who have the most. That is why I think it is wrong to say that we do not want to be involved for that reason. I think that we have good cooperation in the field of children and young people, and that this is an area that still needs a lot of boosts, and I also know that the Radical Left has a lot of good proposals, and we would like to look at them, but we hardly agree on economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150546	Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150548	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to return to Ukraine and Russia's invasion, because we may find ourselves in a rather paradoxical situation, to which I hope the rapporteur can agree. If it is now decided that the UN should carry out peacekeeping operations in Ukraine with the help of Danish soldiers, the Enhedslisten would like to add votes if I understand that correctly, but if it is decided that peacekeeping tasks should be carried out in Ukraine, which the EU will be entrusted with, the Enhedslisten will not support that operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150638	In the Enhedslisten, we have supported the efforts that have been made in Ukraine ever since Crimea, because there we have been active, and we can continue to do so whether we vote yes or no on 1 June. In fact, I think that if I should commend the Left for something, it would be Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen's very clear answer that the question of 1 June has nothing to do with Russia and the invasion when he stood on the platform. Because I think there have been many scaremongering campaigns over the last few months on the question of the reservation vote. So that will be our answer. Then it is quite right that the United Nations has a lot of challenges, but the European Union also has that, which, moreover, has the side of several countries blocking sanctions against Republika Srpska, which means that there can be a civil war in Bosnia.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150742	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150743	In any case, the rapporteur is right to say that the chairman of the Liberal Group, Mr von der Vring, is right. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, replied very clearly to the question he was asked, and so I would also like the rapporteur to reply very clearly to my question. The Unity List welcomes a peacekeeping operation in Ukraine, if it is the UN that brings it up, but it can also be addressed to the European Union, and that is why I need a clear answer, because then the Enhedslisten does not believe that the collective operation is just as important if it is the European Union that brings it up. Denmark cannot decide that on its own, and so the task will not be so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150822	No, that's no way to make it up. Our position on the subject of the reservation is whether to give carte blanche in general that a narrow majority in this House can put Denmark on a number of military operations, and of the missions we have seen so far, 12 out of 14 have been in Africa or in the Mediterranean. We are really concerned about this, and that is why we say no to abolishing the defence reserve. However, we want to help Ukraine, and we can do so in all kinds of other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150853	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150855	Thank you very much. In the Enhedslisten you have clearly said that you want to get out of NATO; I even think it is in your programme of principles. Recently, it has come to light that you do not want to leave NATO right now, and I would actually just like to hear the Enhedslisten's rapporteur explain to me a little bit about the advantages of being a member of NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523150919-2	In the Enhedslisten we do not want to get out, or we do not want Denmark out of NATO unless there is a better alternative. Now the rapporteur asked about the benefits and, of course, the advantage is that it is a defence cooperation. It can also be said that the advantage in reality is that there is a nuclear umbrella which is, after all, part of NATO, even though it is now quite worrying, so it can be said for the future. But the concern for me to see in relation to NATO is that NATO is helping to strengthen the world. Even in a situation where NATO countries have 18 times as strong military capabilities as Russia, we still want the world to arm itself, and I think that all the parties that join it, and who would like to do so to a greater extent, owe answers to where they want to go with the world and whether they are not concerned about where they really end up if only arms are to be bought in indefinitely.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151022	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151022-2	Then I would like to hear that if the benefits are now valid, why, according to Enhedslisten, they are not on the long track.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151033-2	Well, the benefits are equally valid in the long run. We just want cooperation where all the disadvantages are not included, and that is why we are working to change the cooperation we are part of, from the inside or make alternatives. For the problems with NATO right now are the huge contribution to armaments that NATO stands for, and it is also that some of the Member States that are involved are extremely worrying to be partners with. You can look at Turkey, which is currently trying to push one of the Swedish MEPs into extradition to Turkey because it is a Kurd. It is simply so reprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151110	Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151112	I would like to continue a little along the same lines because, as I understand it, the Enhedslisten has decided that the withdrawal of NATO is not current at the moment, as there is no alternative. For those of us who are not fully committed to Enhedslisten's discussions and reflections, it would be useful to hear: what is the alternative, what is the timetable for building it up, who will be involved, and when is the alternative so good that Denmark will be withdrawn from NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151141	There is no better alternative for the present. That is the clear answer, but we are working very hard for the world to be a place that is becoming more peaceful, and we do not believe that, unlike the SF, much more money is being spent on weapons forever, which is what NATO requires of its Member States. Unlike you, we do not believe that a 2-percent armament of all NATO countries is very wise forever. We do not believe that making one's armaments dependent on one's bnp is very sensible. And then we think that the offensive wars you can call it what NATO has been into have been awful. I know SF thinks so, too. So we're going to work against that. But do I believe that it will succeed? I do not know if I do, and that is why we, as socialists, are still pointing out that there should be alternatives. Is the SF really that stranger to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151240	Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151241	Now the Enhedslisten rapporteur was very good at making the criticism of NATO, but I did not really get an answer as to what the alternative to NATO looks like. I understand that a new security architecture must be built as an alternative to NATO. A Nordic defence cooperation must be strengthened. But Sweden and Finland are on their way to joining NATO. They have openly said that they do not see Nordic defence cooperation as an alternative to NATO. Then the Enhedslisten could leave the criticism of NATO for a while and then share with us what this alternative security architecture looks like, which is then the prerequisite for joining NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151318	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151319	But these two things are connected. It is precisely the things we criticise that we do not think should be linked, or we think that they should be part of another security policy cooperation. It should be more inclusive. It should be based more on diplomacy and peacekeeping missions. It should not be based on a 2-percent build-up which is controlled solely by bnp. And then perhaps I do not think that some of the Member States that are deeply undemocratic should be part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151353	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151356	Thank you. Don't worry, I won't ask about NATO. I really think it is a pity for the rapporteur that the rapporteur has so far missed a hinterland. I know that the rapporteur himself is not so crazy. Now, on the other hand, I would like to talk about the increasing poverty resulting from the policy of the government and the left, including the policy supported by the Enhedslisten. I am of course in favour of Enhedslisten's view that many good things have been done during this parliamentary term, but I think that it must be the case that one does not like the 10%. The poorest in Denmark have had their disposable income reduced as a result of the policy pursued by the left. And it is, of course, a development driven primarily by the rise in taxes and taxes. One could, of course, be inspired by Enhedslisten to call it poverty taxes. When you reduce benefits, it is poverty benefits, and when you increase taxes that affect the poorest, it must be poverty taxes. I would really just like to hear Enhedslisten: which of the 42 tax increases that the government has carried out, does Enhedslisten regret most of the votes cast?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151454	Well, I think it's so touching that the Liberal Alliance has suddenly started to care so much about the poorest in our society and in the rising inequality nice. We do the same in the Enhedslisten, and that is why, in relation to the charges, there is not a single one I regret. There is an agreement that we are not included in the Enhedslisten, which helps to increase the inequality measured on the Ginicoefficient, and it is Denmark can more I. It is an agreement which, among other things, is: removes the green check from the cash benefits recipients, and it is clear that it pushes the inequality. But I don't mind the charges. What I really object to is that nothing is being done as compensation. Because it is true that disposable income is being reduced when people are asked to pay more for cigarettes or plastic bags or other items, and that is why, in my view, the government owes it to a benefit agreement that helps to reduce inequality and help those people who have the least in our society as a result of the changes you made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151559	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151600	Well, I just have to make it clear that I wasn't talking about inequality. I agree with the Prime Minister, I agree with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, I agree with Mrs Mai Villadsen that inequality does not matter. That's what you've come up with. I'm talking about poverty. I am talking about the fact that disposable income has been reduced as a result, among other things, of: Enhedslisten's policy. And would it not just be easier not to increase taxes and then use the proceeds to increase benefits afterwards? Does the rapporteur not see that this is a completely marvellous logic? And will the rapporteur not admit that the blues cannot be criticised for reducing benefits when you yourself impoverish the poor with higher taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151632	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151633	First of all, inequality doesn't matter, and I don't think there's any of them that you're earning to say what you mean. It is true that poverty in terms of disposable income is also a problem, but that does not mean that I do not have a policy that we cannot impose some taxes on, for example. plastic bags. Because we have a huge plastic and environmental problem in our world and in our society, and there Denmark has not been any of those who have contributed positively. That is why I think it is right, right and proper that there should be some taxes which mean that people consume less plastic and then we have to compensate in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151711	Mrs. Mona Juul, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151712	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten and thank you for your cooperation. I hope that we can still work together with regard to the pursuit of tax fraud, although I understand that Mr. Rune Lund is going to Kenya. I think that Mrs Mai Villadsen gave a surprising answer to the rapporteur of the Left here next to me, since it was irresponsible policy to reduce a tax. But I assume that Mrs Mai Villadsen believes that increasing a CO2 would not help to regulate the reduction of taxes. And does Mrs Mai Villadsen not recognise that a reduction in corporation tax is precisely one of the instruments that can increase the total disposable income of Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151803-2	First of all, I am quite sure that the greeting from Mr. Rune Lund will also apply the other way. I know you've had a really good cooperation, and as I saw he wrote to you, he's no more than a time zone away so you could always just call. In relation to taxes, we are not really in the Enhedslisten against lowering taxes as such. That is why I think it is very irresponsible to do what would be a permanent cost, by reducing taxes, in other words in an agreement where revenue would not be the same all the time. And that's what I think is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151903	Thank you. If it is the case that the next two use the full speaking time, then we only reach the two. If they don't, maybe we'll make three. But now it's first, sir. Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, and then... Mrs Mona Juul has another). Well, that doesn't mean we're gonna make it anymore. I was a little too fast here, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, but it will be soon. Another round for Mrs. Mona Juul. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523151921	I'm sorry. It's like I've gotten in with the Left here today, but I hope I can be forgiven. It is, of course, this reduction in corporation tax that can actually help to help us all get a higher income. And it is precisely a tool that I believe that Enhedslisten should be able to work with when you can also work with tax increases and tax increases. But another thing that I think may be a common thread for Enhedslisten right now is to misplace some of the things we need in Denmark. Because I haven't heard how we can get labour, what we really, really need. I also hear that Enhedslisten will interfere with the Danish model when it comes to some professional groups. Where's the red thread?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152008	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152009	There were many things in play at the end, but perhaps I would just like to address the first question that the questioner also raised, namely corporation tax as a method for the general Dane to get more in his pocket. I'm not buying it. I'm not sure that that money wouldn't just go down like a nice polish or profit in the company owners' pockets or in the shareholders' pockets. And that is why it is of no benefit to the individual citizen, and that is why I do not think it is sensible, even in the context of the green tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152042	Then it was mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152045	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Now I understand from the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that NATO is very much appreciated. In fact, I would just quote what Mrs Mai Villadsen said: there is no better alternative to NATO. And then you have to be happy with someone, that is, when you can't find a better alternative. So now that you are fond of NATO, will you also help to pay the bill? Because this is often the case in real life, that is, if you want something, you also have to help pay the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152117-2	I don't know if you're necessarily happy about something just because there's no better alternative. I know a number of people who say that in their marriages, for that is the case sometimes. Sorry about the association. I don't know exactly where it came from. No, I'm just not married. Actually, I don't remember what you asked me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152155	Well, that's how you can use your speaking time. Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152156	May I remind the rapporteur that there is a good old English term called If you are in a hole, stop digging. Well, bad about that, because that's not what we should be talking about at all. It was the willingness to pay if the rapporteur wants to say a little about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152210	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152211	Well, in general terms, we are very critical of the objective of NATO that arms build-up should be 2%. of bnp. Because it can be said that the gross domestic product does not necessarily say so much about the security situation, and that is why I think it is a wrong yardstick and also something that contributes to the fact that all countries, even though NATO is, I think it is 18 times stronger militarily than, for example, NATO. Russia just has to buy weapons out for an infinity, and I think that is a wrong way to spend the money and also worrying about the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152243	The last one we reach is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152246	Thank you. Yes, it was surprising that the rapporteur is not married. The rapporteur himself mentioned the sign that stood on the table of a former Finance Minister with where the money should come from. It is, of course, a relevant question, and it is in particular when you are faced with galloping inflation and you have a desire to compensate the Danes on a given scale and it has to be financed. The Enhedslisten has been out with quite a number of groups who wanted to compensate: pensioners, sick, unemployed, families with children, early retirement, students. It was believed that the government's project on these 3 billion was far too unambitious; it needed a much bigger package. I guess it was said that, despite the fact that there were very serious warnings from the National Bank, the chief wise man was that this was putting firewood on a fire, because it was financed here not by changing public spending and cutting into other places, but by lending itself to the money. I would like to hear the rapporteur's response to this quite frankly, whether it can be better assessed in the Enhedslisten than the National Bank and the supervisor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152346	No, in the Enhedslisten we have actually listened a lot to what has been said by them in particular, that you should not put wood on the fire. That is why we have proposed taking air out of the economy by giving tax increases to some of those who have received the most. In this way, you actually take air out of the economy, follow the wise men's advice and can at the same time redistribute, and that has been our proposal. I understand that it may not find 90 mandates in here, but that is how we believe it can be done responsibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152419	Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152420	We will never agree on the issue of making new tax increases. But perhaps we can reach each other when it comes to doing something in relation to the employment allowance and helping to ensure that those with the lowest incomes can benefit a little more from going to work. After all, we have about a quarter of a million Danes for whom it is hardly worth going to work. So I just want to know whether Enhedslisten will bring it in as an element of the discussions that are, in other words, increase the employment allowance in order to help them with the lowest incomes in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152448	In general terms, I do not really buy it because it does not pay to work when you look at both the levels of benefits which the blue block has helped to reduce significantly, and the wages, and in general I believe that people would like to work if they can. Compared with the employment allowance, we prefer to make bottom tax reductions by relaxing the base deduction instead, otherwise there will be a very large increase precisely between people who are outside and inside the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152522	Then we thank Mrs Mai Villadsen. There are no more brief remarks, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Van der Klaauw. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523152531	Thank you. I was thinking of Emil, not from Lønneberg, but the guy who has the 10th anniversary in this Chamber this year, and of course I am thinking of the then Social Democratic Prime Minister's story about Emil in 2012. Maybe some of you remember him. Today he would be old enough to vote in favour of abolishing the defence reserve. I think Emil didn't really exist, but we did follow his day in primary school, and we heard that he had mathematics, and I have here 10 years later come to think that it was actually an interesting idea just to hold on to and take up again. What is the Social Democracy, the government and the other left have put forward of plans for, among others. children and young people for the past 3 years, and how has Emil's grandparents, who have grown old? How would Emil have felt about the forced distribution of pupils, which means that he cannot go to the high school with his friends he would like, cannot reach his leisure activities, busted around, although with a bourgeois government he could choose the high school without his parents' income being anything compared to where he had to go. After all, Emil is a figure that the Social Democratic Party has made up, but it all becomes a reality for 15%. of all young people living in the so-called distribution zones. Imagine that it is with a social democratic government that you must now be either too poor or too rich to go to the high school you want to go to. It's far away from the world, and you'd think the idea was as fictional as Emil. However, this is a reality, and even though the government, after pressure, has changed a little in the agreement, it does not change the fact that the pupils are forced to be allocated on the basis of their parents' income and that they cannot switch to another high school if they are forced to do so first, and it has been effectively ensured that if they want a private alternative, they cannot do so either. The dissatisfaction of the students is easy to understand. But the government's reaction is not to listen or roll back or think about freedom or friends, no, it is to open the door to the fact that the distribution should now also apply in the primary school of primary school. When the Prime Minister spoke of Emil in 2012, it was with the idea of creating even better education. If only the Social Democracy had stopped policy development there. In 2022, a Social Democratic MP has written a book on how problematic the free choice of school is and even the Social Democratic Minister of Education recognises that the government is looking at how pupils in the country's primary schools can be distributed. How? I'm just asking. Is it inspired by the high school agreement, and is that our best bet on school? This is not what families of children need in a busy everyday life, it is not what families of children need if they are to make a good life. So let's hope that the fictional Emil got his school choice fulfilled. Like the high school students, the Danes also lack confidence in the economic situation in which they and Denmark find themselves. Consumer confidence, which shows whether Danes have a positive or negative view of their own economy and economy, is worse than it was during the financial crisis. But it did not fill so much in the Prime Minister's speech, and I feel it is as if the television host and the illusionist Jan Hellesøe have had the speech of the Prime Minister. Because if you just hear the speech, it seems like everything is joy and old in Danish economy, but the reality is that there is also a little hidden up your sleeve, and these are all the bad numbers, and like Jan Hellesøe, the Prime Minister hopes that we will not follow it too well when the trick is done. The government writes in its paper of understanding that we must combat the growing inequality, nine out of ten sections of the population have become poorer, the Danes with the lowest incomes have become poorer. Companies scream for labour, local entrepreneurs across the country lose orders, and therefore Denmark loses income. In his speech, the Prime Minister mentioned that there have been 12 000 people in an agreement, but that is after ten thousand have been withdrawn, inflation is at a level that we have not seen for 35 years; it recognises the Prime Minister is a challenge, but the problem is getting worse with economic policy. The government says it's financially responsible. The National Bank and the Economic Wise Men warn against bending the budget rules and sending unfunded cheques, which will just send prices up even higher. Yes, growth is the highest for 27 years, but the fact that the Danish economy is basically strong is not due to government policy, but it is due to the responsible reform policy implemented by previous governments, which has made it more attractive to work and invest. Some Danes say that there is not so much difference between the political parties at Christiansborg that the difference between blue and red is marginal. Nevertheless, I think there are clear differences in a number of crucial areas. The government will give the Danes welfare in one new way, an unfree way. There you are told that private day-to-day services should be largely banned; nothing is done to ensure that the elderly can have anything other than the public nursing home; parents are told how to distribute the bar. Would it be possible for Emil, if he was born in 2022, to have a better life if he and the family were given the freedom to choose for themselves where the parents decide how to keep maternity leave? Could it be imagined that Emil's security and learning ability will be improved by going to a high school where his friends go and which he has chosen for himself? Could you imagine that Emil's grandparents will have a better life if it is not only in the municipal nursing home that you get to end your days? The public needs alternatives, also in order to develop. While we have spent the last few years restricting citizens' freedom, we and we in the Conservative People's Party have spent our time putting forward proposals that offer more security and opportunities for the individual from the birth of Emil to the last half of his grandparents or great-grandparents. We have proposed that it should be entirely up to parents how the barssel should be distributed, we have proposed strengthening the country's free schools, and in primary school we have suggested that pupils with talent to use their practical abilities be seen and accommodated, not because they are weaker pupils, but because the primary school must be good for everyone, and we also need more people who want to take vocational training. We have come up with an elder initiative that will ensure that all elderly people have their individual needs met because we are all different and we do not all fit into the municipality's box or spreadsheets. After all, the desire to control one's own life does not disappear because one has grown old, and at a time when the economy of the Danes is under pressure and taxes have increased by 10 billion. kr. and everything from a pack of butter to a litre of gasoline has become much more expensive, so we have proposed to strengthen the families by letting the Danes keep some more of their own money themselves. It is not fair that, while the Danes have to save, there is no requirement that the public should do the same. It is time for Danish politics to do what is best for families, not what is easy for the state and the public system, because the Folketing has shown that we can make big agreements when it comes to this. This was the case with the agreement on the national compromise, which historically strengthens our defence and our common security, and I would also like to sign for that. It is excellent that we now ensure to get up to the 2%. to the defence and the important thing that Danish forces can join forces with our good allies in NATO. The agreement also asks the Danes to decide on 1 June whether we should supplement our security cooperation with NATO by also getting closer together in Europe. After all, we are going to lift more in Europe. Everyone knows that. The Americans have had enough of them every time, and that is why my clear recommendation is also a yes on 1 June. Our defence must be given the opportunity to make a greater difference, and the good thing is that if we get it yes, then it will be the Folketing and no one else who will say yes or no to the operations that we will support or will not support. So there the Folketing can really well together. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153452	There are brief comments. It's first, sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153456	Thank you. Conservatives like to call themselves green, at least the Conservative People's Party has announced that Denmark will support a stop to the sale of fossil cars by 2030. That's really good. But much of the green policy is also being made at European level, and that is also what really is happening if we can come up with common solutions. But Mrs Pernille Weiss, the Conservative MEP, has been the decisive voice that has helped to block a stop to the sale of fossil cars in Europe after 2035, and how does Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen it is consistent with the green profile of the Conservatives at home in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153538	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153539	Thank you. Now it is the case that when the EU is negotiated, it comes in various committees and, most recently, in the European Parliament, and there are trialogues and so on. But this is not the first time in the history of Denmark that a Member of the European Parliament does not necessarily have the same opinion as the group at home in Denmark. This is one of the cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153608	Sir. Thomas Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153609	But Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen saw personally that it was the right thing to do in the specific situation in the European Parliament, in other words to block this phasing out of fossil cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153623	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153624	No, of course I don't, because that's not what the Conservatives mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153632	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153633	Right now there are negotiations on a higher and more uniform CO2 Søren Pape and Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen was out in some common green hugs to use some of the expressions from today when several proposals for tax reductions were played on the field. Among other things: Mr. Søren Pape in the interview that a reduction in corporation tax was relevant in relation to the debate on an increase in CO2................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Søren Pape is playing it on the field when there has just been a warning against making a reduction in corporation tax from the expert commission behind the green tax reform. Well, then, sir. Søren Pape doesn't explain how the hell it can be beneficial for the climate to lower corporate tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153722	I believe that what benefits the climate is that we are all making an ambitious agreement in here about green tax reform. Then we can have different views on how to finance and how to compensate businesses. We have offered a reduction in corporation tax as one of several things, and that is because we will be richer as a society if we relax corporate tax. We can discuss that in the negotiations. That is our starting point. But I hope that we agree that the objective must be to create an ambitious CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153800	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153801	There is no doubt that Conservatives and SF differ strongly when it comes to the issue of equality and taxation, but if we stay on the green track now, lowering corporate tax will mean that there will be a lower tax for companies that do not experience a higher CO2 2 Therefore there is no green argument for lowering corporate tax. So with the logic of an ambitious green agreement, as Mr. Søren Pape speaks for, it simply does not make sense in the green accounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153833	However, it is the case that we are looking at how the overall tax burden will be for Danish companies in general. We will then come up with some proposals on how to compensate companies. After all, none of us have ever said that we are going to compensate one for one, because that would be unrealistic. When I'm around the country giving presentations about a green tax reform and CO2 but now it's just that a corporate tax relief, among other things. Well, that makes us richer as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153909	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153909-2	Thank you. We must be independent of Putin's gas; we must also invest in more biogas, because some companies will need gas in the future and will not be able to become independent. And then this decision has been made to create a whole new gas pipeline for Lolland. Now there are new calculations that show that you can electrify. Will the Conservative People's Party help to see if we can do something different with this gas pipeline?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523153942-2	Of course, we always stand by the agreements we make that is clear. But I also feel that that agreement was made before 24 February and before we started talking about independence from Russian gas and how it affects us at all. And I feel like if there's something you should look at there, I think you should do it without prejudice. We just have to keep each other up that it is not the case that you can avoid using gas. There will still be a need for that. So we stand by the agreement, but we think that if someone comes and says that there is a problem, then we should never be afraid to examine the facts. We have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154017	Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154018	I am very glad that this seems constructive to me. And it is precisely true that the reality is different now and that it has to go even faster than we probably had planned, and that is why we will also have to use the biogas elsewhere. Then there is the fact that the employees who do this are the same people that we very often need for example. the extension of the electricity network, and I believe that Mr. Søren Pape and I agree that it is really, really important that a great deal of effort is being put into the development of the electricity grid now that we will need. So if it's the same, maybe we could decide to postpone this with the gas pipeline at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154055	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154056	I think you should have an open-minded talk about that. The very general challenge that we are facing, as the questioner also raises here, is that all that we have to do right now in Denmark with the hands we have at our disposal, we must, of course, prioritize properly, very wisely in a situation where we lack labour. We should do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154115	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154117	Thank you. It was a while before Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen came up with the question of the referendum on 1 June, but it did come up in the speech. You could say that also relates to the good Emil, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen refers to, for what kind of Denmark is it, and what kind of Europe is Emil going to grow up in? It is clear that the military dimension that exists in the European Union now is primarily aimed at defending the EU's trade and resource interests, primarily in Africa. That is why I have this question for Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. That's right when Mr. Keating... Søren Pape Poulsen states that it is a majority of the Folketing that can send soldiers on missions, but is the view of the Conservatives that for example: Emil must be able to be deployed on missions in Mali, in the Central African Republic, in Mozambique to ensure that the EU can continue to have access to, for example: uranium or gas, which we're going to phase out? Or what are these ongoing missions that the Conservatives want to send out on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154223	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154224	I don't have a glass ball where I can guess which missions will come in the future, and we have to discuss that. Well, I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox too. Peder Hvelplund acknowledges that it is the Danish Parliament and not anyone else who decides where soldiers should be sent to the world. I think that what we see about Libya is an important mission. Bosnia and Herzegovina is an important mission, and so is the fight against piracy, but we must have the people. It is not the case that because the European Union has a mission, we do not have soldiers to participate in everything, and there will be something where I think that maybe it is not there, the core task for Danish soldiers is, and I think we should take a stand on that on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154300	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154300-2	I'm not asking that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is looking in the crystal ball, and I just think that we should deal with ongoing actions. The rapporteur himself now mentions, for example: The action in Libya, but it is, of course, about catching migrants and sending them back to camps in Libya where they are subjected to human rights violations and rape, an action in which the German Bundestag has said that German soldiers should not participate. So, this is the type of action in which we are to take part, and is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen did not agree that what lies in the EU's military dimension is primarily action in Africa?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154336	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154337	I am very excited about what it will be mainly, because Africa is not irrelevant to Europe. In other words, if, as an African, you choose to get in a boat, I do not think it is sailing towards the United States; then I think it is sailing towards Europe. That is why there may well be areas where we have an interest in jointly saying: what are we doing about it? This does not mean that any mission that comes on a proposal from an EU country should be a part of it, but one would like us to be some EU countries that joined forces and, for example, to be part of it. Said: Should we not now take a turn each to combat piracy for the sake of our Danish fleet and our Danish sailors?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154416	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154417	I think it's interesting to hear that, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen will undertake to say no when the EU has to come and ask for Danish contributions. I'd like to take sir. Søren Pape Poulsen 2 years back when we were some who had hoped that the government would then say no to the EU budget proposal that had come from the Commission, in which the Prime Minister said that it would be quite crazy if Denmark had to pay 5 billion. kr. More, and Denmark could have vetoed it if that was what we wanted, because that is the way the rules are in this area too. There we were part of the blue block which actually agreed that it was crazy and that Denmark should therefore veto. But Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's party became soft in its knees, and while the other blue parties and the Enhedslisten voted no, it was Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who made it possible for the Prime Minister to come to Brussels and not come home with a bill of 5 billion. kr., but at 4.5 billion. kr. - Sir... Søren Pape Poulsen understands that it can be a little bit untrustworthy that he should be the man who can say no when Brussels calls when the Prime Minister can just call him?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154522	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154523	No, I can't understand that at all. We have had this debate on the EU budget before in the Chamber, and we are happy to take it again. It can be said that the Conservative People's Party's approach, which two years ago, was the same as we have had for decades, was precisely to send a government with a mandate to negotiate the best possible result, without having to call home every two hours to the Danish Parliament and see if we can agree to an agreement on it at all. And, of course, it is the responsibility of the current government to indicate where that funding will be found. What we voted for was that they were given the mandate, and it would be a break with what else we have done.I am not saying what the Danish People's Party has done, but what else we have done here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154610	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154611	I do not think that the expression is particularly comprehensive, because what was at issue was that we had a Prime Minister who, in an area where she could have vetoed, said that 5 billion. kr. more in EU contribution was cuckoo. Then she'll make an appointment with mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who then obliges Denmark to pay 4.5 billion. kr. More, and that wasn't crazy. So the difference between gak gak and yes down to veto is only 0.5 billion. kr. - Sir... Søren Pape Poulsen does not understand that it is a little strange so that one should have confidence that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen will be able to say no next time Brussels calls?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154643	That depends on what Brussels is calling about. However, if this is about something as important as having a budget in the European Union, we cannot sit here and be on the phone online while we have a government sitting and negotiating. Then we are back to the whole view of whether Denmark should be part of the EU and how we should place ourselves in the EU, whether Danish companies benefit from being a member of the EU, whether Danish employees benefit from it, and for all that I mean yes, and therefore I also think it was right to give the government a negotiating mandate at that time. After all, we did not give them a mandate to spend the money at home, as they wished.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154719	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154721	I love cars. I'm not hiding that. But even if I weren't so crazy about cars, I just wouldn't in my imagination claim and understand that you put up to 150 per cent. the tax on a product that is needed by families. That's what we do on the cars. I simply cannot understand why it is said that it is okay that Danish families for children should drive and that they will be doing so in safer cars than Swedish families for children and German families for children. So I'd like to try to ask. I also put the question to the leader of the Left, because I would like to have some support for people who also like private carism out there and think that this is an important part of making family life work together. Then Conservatives could see themselves in that, when power hopefully changes, we are looking into getting something done about those charges once and for all? Because apart from the house, it's the biggest post for a lot of families with children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154819-2	First of all, I would like to say that it was the case that during our reign we had the tax reduced. It's not like I'm saying we stop there. But we had the tax reduced, and we were told from one side of the House that it was completely irresponsible. You have not then proposed putting it back to what it was. Then I very much agree with Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen said that we should sit down and discuss it when there is a bourgeois majority, because I believe that both Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and I want to lower the tax and tax a lot of places. Then we will have to sit down and agree on where we start and what we give priority to. I fully agree that this is a huge expense for Danish families, especially those who cannot just take a S-train and a bus.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154900	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154901	Yeah, exactly. Now I remember that then the current tax increased a tiny bit under the previous government at the same time. I wasn't too happy about that. But it was probably a deal in the yard. You can, for example. start by just lowering it to the 80%. It costs about half a billion dollars a national economy, and it really is something that would bat for lots of families. But I am very pleased with the positive approach that we can look at these taxes on those cars. Those taxes affect families with children, and they often, where we come from, need two cars to make it stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154937	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154938	At any rate, I foresee a positive discussion among the bourgeois parties about where to start when we are going to look at how to make it a little easier for the Danes to make their everyday life stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154949	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523154951	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I see that Conservatives define themselves as a nature-friendly party, and I can recognise that as well. As I see it, the environmental impact assessment in relation to Lynetteholmen is very questionable, so can one imagine that we come in a situation where nature and the environment will be so affected, expected, by a Lynetteholm that Conservatives will withdraw from the settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155023	But that's looking in a crystal ball, and frankly, I find it very difficult to imagine that we do. I understand that there have now been new discussions on Lynetteholmen and that some steps have been taken in this regard. But all other things being equal is a very good and important project, I would also like to say. I mean, it's kind of something we've been watching over since we had the power of government ourselves, and we've also made an agreement with this government, so I find it hard to see that we should end up suddenly saying that we're pulling the plug on that settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155057	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155058	Then I'll ask you something else. I heard the rapporteur say that there had to be a high CO2 level. Will the rapporteur say a little more about what the Conservative People's Party means by a high CO2 level?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155118-2	I said high, and I should have said uniform. That was my idea, because in our proposal we are buying in on the basis that the government has also put forward, in relation to CO2 and so the questioner and I know that we have some companies at home who will be extremely pressured if we are not prepared to look at whether there can be a difference in what you pay, i.e. a discount if we still want jobs in Denmark. It is a delicate balance and I understand the problem very well, but I think we should be nuanced here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155156	Then it's mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155158	Thank you. I listened very carefully to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's story about Emil, but unfortunately Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, in his story, had forgotten Emil's grandfather, who, after a long and hard working life, has finally been given the opportunity to withdraw worthily. And it is perhaps because it is no news that the worn-out Danes, who have finally been allowed to retire after a long and hard working life, have to pull back on their clothes if Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen will have his dream to sit in the Prime Minister's chair. That's why I'd like to know if Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen could say a little about what his message is actually to the Danes who have been given the right to withdraw.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155246	Well, I don't suppose anyone in here is in doubt that we think introducing Arnepension was wrong. I don't think we should have it, and I think we should get rid of it again, because in my world, it's a completely crooked focus. It is a focus that goes on: if you have just been many years enough in the labour market, then you have to withdraw partout. What the Socialists are doing here is just as quiet to lay down a standard for a new retirement age in Denmark or are we going to have different retirement ages for different groups, or where are we really going? If we are to have any money at all for the welfare society that we all want, then I also fear that the discussion we are now having on the Pension Commission will soon end up with us thinking that we can sit here and know what health status people are in in 30 years' time and then, with the spectacles of today, adopt the future pension. It's very dangerous. I don't agree with that. I'm in favour of the senior pension we've made. I don't think you should have done Arnepensionen. I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155343	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155344	I think that is a pity, and unfortunately again I think it is evidence that these are very thick walls, Mr President. Søren Pape Poulsen stays behind in here and that he might benefit from getting a little out of the real world and seeing how hard a working life some of the many hardworking Danes have. That's why I'd like to ask you at the end of the day, and maybe it's not news about Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen can confirm or say a little more about whether he believes that Danes who have worked hard for more than 40 years, who have worked hard on everything they could on the labour market and care for theirs, are people who withdraw from other people's money or whether it is really for their own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155420	The rapporteur, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155421	I was 18 years old on the labour market before politics became my full-time job. I think it's a little above average compared to a lot of people who have been elected to this Parliament. So I've been trying to be on the job market, and I know what it is. My parents came out to serve after they left the 7th grade I know what it means to do a job. But that old story that if you've been on the labour market for many years, you're completely ruined and worn out is almost the story of Jens Vejmand, and that story makes it possible for us to have a problem in this society with regard to access to vocational training, because it means you're talking the labour market down.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155500	Then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155503	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen has talked a lot about responsibility and leadership, but I would like to know if Søren Pape Poulsen is ready to sit in the Prime Minister's chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155522	I had hoped that the questioner would follow up from the previous questioner so that we could have a good political discussion about retirement, Arnepension, and what it is called, because that is what I think is relevant and why we are here. The second is, after all, such a process and talk discussion about who is a candidate and who is not a candidate. I have not signed up as Prime Minister's candidate, but I understand that there is a great longing for me to do so in the Social Democracy, so I have to go home and think about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155552	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155553	I'm glad if my question has done that, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen is ready to think about it. And when I ask the question, it is because to dare to take responsibility and leadership for Denmark is also about politics, i.e. to dare to put force and action behind its words. Therefore, I would like to ask whether it is because he is actually a little concerned and lies in the slipstream of others, or whether he actually has enough courage to sit in that chair or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155624	I would like to give the questioner a number of examples from my political life, because I think I have taken ample responsibility. I was completely in charge of it and got all the beatings that could be on me when, as committee chairman, I closed a number of schools in the City of Viborg. As Minister of Justice, I have also led, to put it mildly, to make a great many initiatives that did not become very popular. I believe that I take responsibility in this Chamber every day, and I believe that I and my party take responsibility for a great many agreements that we are in. I don't put myself in the slipstream of anyone, I take responsibility every day. But then I understand that if you're a party leader and you don't profess to be a prime minister, you're not responsible. That is an interesting point of view that has emerged.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155705	Mrs. Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155706	Thank you. After the debate on posts and prime ministers, let us talk about politics, as the rapporteur asks. The Conservative People's Party has proposed lowering a number of taxes, and that has a price. For example: As far as I understand, you propose to reduce housing taxes by 13 billion. kr. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur where that money should come from if Conservatives are to live up to what has been said to the electorate that they want to do. Where's that money coming from? Is it from our welfare, is it from our children? We have also just spent a lot of money on defence, which is now no longer available. So where will the money come from for the tax cuts promised by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155750	Well, in all the plans we have put forward, including the long - term economic plans, it's all financed crowns for crowns. Well, in our budget bill for 2022, everything is funded... we even have a buffer of 3 billion. kr. But one of the things we have said, such in the short term, is that we do not think it is well-being to take a lot of people out of working life and send them into retirement such a specially selected group. We do not think it is welfare to give unemployed immigrants higher benefits. We do not think it is well-being to have the most expensive job centres in the OECD, etc. etc. We must be able to take that discussion, and I hope we can take it on the basis that there may also be places in the public sector where we can cut something away, save, but also become more skilled. And that is one of the things that has to finance our plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155840	We also saw, the last time Conservatives were in government, that attempts were being made to make the public sector more efficient by saving 2%. in education and health. After all, it had consequences out there, and that is also why we have stopped those savings again. So does the rapporteur really think that we can cut more into the leg? 13 billion kr. is a lot of money, and it is only in one area. For example: We also hear the rapporteur's party say that Conservatives will not support minimum standards. So does the money have to come from the kids? The money must come from worn-out adults, but the money must, for example, be paid out. Come from the kids too?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155916	We have nothing The municipalities are free to make minimum standards. I think it is excellent if they do, but I just don't think it should be decided in here. I mean, as far as I know, have, among other things. Elsinore and Frederiksberg did it. Now Frederiksberg is taken over by Enhedslisten, but before they were, it was a conservative mayor who among other things. said that there should be minimum standards. So my opposition to minimum standards is not such a matter of principle. It's more that I think you're best at dealing with that in the individual municipality, and then you agree the economy every year in June with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155955	Then it's Anne Sophie Callesen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523155957	Thank you. I would like to ask a question after the many questions from the Conservative People's Party about the so-called forced distribution of high school pupils, where one gets such a picture that one takes the individual student and sees where the state would best like to place him or her. The reality is, of course, that the students' wishes are based on, and the question is what to do with the group of pupils who do not meet their first priority, just as today we also have a group that does not. I would like to hear what the Conservative People's Party wants, and how will the Conservative People's Party ensure small outskirts gymnasiums and a student composition around the cities so that the high schools survive?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160038-2	This is a rather interesting question, which is based on the fact that we have proposed a new distribution model. We have not said that there should be a new distribution model. I fully recognise that there are models today, but here in the distribution zone there are just some violent consequences, namely that approx. 15% Don't get their first choice. There are two discussions in this: one is this ideological discussion that I just cannot have, namely that it is parents' income that will determine where children can go on youth education. I think that is very, very wrong. And then we have another discussion about how to secure both economics and students for some outskirts gymnasiums, so that they can also survive in the future. I think that is two different discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160121	Anne Sophie Callesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160123	So, my question was based on the fact that there are high schools that are threatened and at risk of having to close, both on the outskirts of Tørring Gymnasium, Fjerritslev Gymnasium. Odsherreds Gymnasium, Faaborg Gymnasium and around the major cities; and whoever has proposed a model, yes, we have wanted to take responsibility for the problem in the Radical Left. Then I ask the Conservative People's Party: what concrete models, either for the distribution of pupils or otherwise, in other words, what political solution does the Conservative People's Party have to take to the problem of upper secondary schools closing if that issue is recognised?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160156	But it is true that even today, if you look at the countryside widely, there may be some pupils looking for places where there is no space and where there is a distribution often for the benefit of the small colleges, and I actually recognise that it can certainly be. I can look at some situations from my own region. This requires space, and if there is no room, there is a distribution. This is a difficult area, I will not fail to say. But the distribution we have today, I think, is the best possible, and then we have to secure the economy of those high schools. That's just not what's going on in this debate. What is involved in this debate is this ideological division of forces in certain places, which one would not say out loud is also about ethnicity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160235	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160238	Thank you. After all, Putin's war has driven a lot of people on the run. That's what happens when there's a war. I and Enhedslisten believe that we have a damn responsibility to help the people who are fleeing Putin. I also think it has been nice to see how it has been a new break in Danish foreign policy that you are now standing by with open arms. But I must also say to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, that I do not understand why it is so important for the Conservatives that there are some people who are fleeing Putin's war we are not helping. I am, of course, talking about the negotiations we had about the special law, where Conservatives left the negotiations and were very close to voting against the special law because it seemed that it helped a little too many people. Well, then, sir. Søren Pape does not explain to me why the bombs should fall differently on those who are not Ukrainian citizens but live in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160333	Yes, we allowed ourselves to have a rather nuanced view, and I can see that, of course, is too bad. We felt that, of course, everyone should be helped away from Putin's bombs. Then all we had to do was decide whether it was the Ukrainians or whether it was the Ukrainians and everyone else who was also in Ukraine who could get asylum. We were merely taking the view that they should be subject to the ordinary asylum rules, and then we did something special for the Ukrainians. It doesn't seem to be many, and that's only good. At the moment, we may find ourselves in a situation in which, for example, we find ourselves in difficulties. Syrians and Afghans, who have first been in Ukraine, are in Denmark on some other rules than the Syrians and Afghans who have come here originally. We just thought that was wrong and that is why we tabled an amendment. And then we voted in favour of the entire bill. We've taken just as much responsibility. We just had an opinion that that nuance should make a difference, and that is what we disagree about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160428	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160430	Well, I kind of welcome it when there is room for the nuances of Danish foreign policy, because it is a rarity. However, I would like to ask again: why are Putin's bombs worse if you are a Ukrainian citizen than if you live in Ukraine without having Ukrainian citizenship? Well, why do you experience the war differently? Is it your citizenship that decides that? That's what I don't understand. After all, in the Enhedslisten we have to help the Ukrainians as much as we can and that we have to fight Putin. Then it's just that I don't understand why it's right here, Conservatives need to have a nuance in terms of who needs help when we fight Putin. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160512	I think that a large majority of the Danes are very, very grateful that it is not the Enhedslisten who controls asylum policy in Denmark, because I know what that would lead to. But when we talk about people from Ukraine, I simply do not recognise the premise for the issue. After all, I never said that no one has said that anyone should be less sheltered from Putin's bombs than anyone else. We have just said that it may be on different bases, because Ukraine belongs to our vicinity; there is 2 hours of flight to Kyiv, which is 3 hours to Rome. Ukraine is in our vicinity, and that is why we would like to make a special law for Ukrainians, but not for everyone else. All the others must then be part of the ordinary asylum system. That's just what we said, that's just what we said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160550	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160553	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I understood earlier on, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen that he does not read opinion polls. It may well be that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, so I can just inform the rapporteur that in the polls during most of the parliamentary term it has been the case that the Left and Conservatives have been fairly equal. Sometimes Conservatives have been a little ahead, and sometimes the Left has been a little ahead, but fairly straight. And now we are approaching the fact that there is a year left in the parliamentary term, and that is why it is legitimate for the Danes to know who the bourgeois prime minister candidate is: is that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, or is it Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen? Jakob Ellemann-Jensen? Who would point Conservatives to if there were to be a bourgeois majority after an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160633	Thank you for the infinite interest in bourgeois Denmark. I am really, really glad that this is the case with the Socialists. Well, I've answered the question. At the moment, I have found that there is a prime minister candidate on the blue side and that then we have a prime minister. And then I have been asked the same question as Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær just asks me, many times, and I have just said that if it is appropriate for me to sign up like that, I will do so before elections are held. Maybe I'll have to hurry because I think it'll be here in a minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160706	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160708	It's probably above my pay grade to answer. But the reason it's interesting, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, is that the Left and Conservatives are not the same. So, I suppose there is a difference between the political content, depending on whether it is a Liberal who sits in the Prime Minister's Chair, or it is a conservative, and that is why it is really for the Danes to know what it is that you can count on if you vote for the Conservatives: is it a candidacy for the Prime Minister's post and to take responsibility and leadership in the country, or is it a support for a Left Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160737	But so do the Danes before they go to the polls. By the way, I am very pleased and proud to be able to say that the Left and the Conservative People's Party have been together in governments for many, many years, and thanks to this very good civil policy has been conducted, moreover, in cooperation with other parties on the bourgeois side. Anyway, thank you for the great interest in our welfare. We're doing really well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160805	The next brief remark is to Mrs Halime Oguz, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160809	Thank you. Now you can hear that the Conservative People's Party has a great deal of interest in the high school agreement, and they are very critical, you have to understand, because this is an ideological discussion. It's about coercion, and it's about freedom. But then I cannot understand that the Conservative People's Party is part of the parallel society package, because it is also about moving some people. It is also about taking the free choice from some people. I am actually really glad that we in the SF are part of that agreement, because it is important that we live together and that we do not close ourselves to ourselves in some small communities and clans. I think we should take that to both the high schools, but also the primary school, if it was up to me. So I cannot understand why you are against one agreement and are in favour of the other agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523160908	I almost don't know where to start, just the fact that these two things are being compared. After all, the Parallel Society Agreement, which the previous government was in charge of, should deal with some very, very violent problems we have in some residential areas in Denmark. I hope we agree on that. Children are put back in school because they do not speak the language when they go to school. We wanted to ensure that they came to day care, even though it was not very bourgeois that we wanted to force someone to do so. We did this for the sake of how our social development should be. The distribution of high school students and the criticism we have had of it, I do not even think you are near to being able to compare with the fact that we have some residential areas in Denmark where, to put it mildly, you can sometimes be in doubt about which country you are in when you walk around those residential areas. Honestly, these are two very, very different issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523161005	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523161006	After all, some of the problems raised by the rapporteur go on to schools and colleges. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there are also some colleges and that there are also a number of schools that have these massive challenges, that is, the challenges that we see in the socially vulnerable housing areas with negative social control, religious indoctrination and all the other social issues that we face? Does the rapporteur really not recognise that the same problems also exist in educational establishments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523161045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523161046	Yes, they do exist, they certainly do. Then we'll just have to talk to each other about what kind of problem we're going to solve. So are we gonna solve this distribution, or are we just gonna be honest that there's something else that needs to be done? When I asked the Prime Minister that question during Question Time, I actually got that answer about the challenge of coercion, i.e. if there is a very heavy ethnicity group and social control, etc. And then I said if it is, then the PM could close some. This then led me to read in some local newspapers that if you really want the big distribution, then you can discuss whether we are going to have some high schools, we are building much bigger, so there is room for more, for example. to mix people in a different way. I think that would be better than this forced distribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523161130	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen and the Conservative People's Party. There are no more brief comments, and so we go to the next party, which is the Danish People's Party. And this is sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523161147	Thank you, President. If you didn't know better, you wouldn't think there was a decisive referendum 9 days away. Not many rapporteurs have chosen to talk about it in their speeches, and even fewer questioners have chosen to make it a central theme, apart from the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten. When you get around the country, there is an interest, and there are also some parties that have chosen to be so committed that they have hung up election posters. However, this is not close to what we have seen in previous referendums. And that is a little in contrast to the indictment that the Prime Minister, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and others have tried to ensure that this has been the result of the new security situation caused by Putin's attack on Ukraine. There is no doubt that the decision that might be taken on 1 June, especially if it becomes a yes and the defence reservation falls, will set a new direction for Danish defence and Danish foreign policy in general. And so it is worthwhile to think that some people are simply wondering about getting as little attention as possible about the referendum that might be possible in order to secure the most favourable basis for a yes. It is strange, at least, that it is so close to a referendum to see a final debate where it takes up so incredibly little. The Prime Minister in his opening speech quoted Grundtvig's song and said: "By the land being, it serves us best. I would like to go a little further into Grundtvig's words and quote: "Longer accomplishments for honor and soldier perhaps saw foreigners practice. However, not the Danemen led in shield with the hearts lion by lion. Let the eagles only be torn about the world's ball! We don't trade banners, we don't change shields. And especially the last words, I think, are appropriate for the decision and the time that we face and what awaits in nine days' time. 'Cause we're gonna trade banners? Shall we change shields? Or should we continue the line which has been the basis of Danish security policy and Danish foreign and defence policy since the Second World War? That is basically what the Danes have to decide. Much has been said in this election campaign also about the right of veto, so that Denmark can just back off when the EU asks us to commit ourselves militarily. We have seen that the former Minister for Defence, Mrs Trine Bramsen, has been very explicit at the time as Minister for Defence, in relation to how the European Union works, and has said very clearly that if you remove the reservation, there will of course be pressure; there will of course be an expectation. Then Denmark can't just keep holding back. And we see that way, among other things. the current government has administered this right of veto, but then I cannot help worrying about whether one is also able to say no when Macron calls, when Scholz calls, when Ursula von der Leyen calls, or whoever is calling and says: Now there is an expectation that Denmark will make troop contributions to a military EU mission. And what I am thinking of, of course, is most recently Denmark had the opportunity to say no to gakgak in the European Union. And these are not just my words; they are the PM's own words. In other words, when the European Commission back in 2019 proposed that Denmark pay 5 billion. kr. More to the EU budget, we were told that this proposal was completely gack. And the good news was that Denmark could veto; that we could say no. The bad news was that it remained with the pious declarations of intent, because when it came to the end, they did not say from; then they did not veto, but came back to the Danes with an extra bill from the EU of 4.5 billion. kr. That was the difference between the totally unacceptable gakgak and what you could live with from 5 billion. kr. to 4.5 billion. kr. And that was in a situation where there could have been a veto. In this light, of course, when sitting in the rooms and considering whether to vote 'yes' or 'no' on 1 June, we should consider whether the same parties who make those decisions, so that in defence too, have the resistance to say 'no', or whether they really act, as Mrs Trine Bramsen did after pressure from Brussels. Pressure will certainly be there. From Mr. We heard from Jakob Ellemann-Jensen that this has been a wish, a dream for 29 years. Imagine wearing such hot dreams for so long. Can you imagine that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and his troops in the Left after so much time with so many intrigued ambitions on behalf of Denmark, will press the button, or could you perhaps imagine that if we remove the reservation, that is to say, in that way you will see a canonade, a Pandora's box of possibilities open up, and then it will really be used? I think so. I find it very difficult to imagine how to get a wardrobe full of EU socks to harmonize with saying no when Brussels really calls. And that's the challenge here. The reservation was established because the large, large majority of parliament wants more EU, but where the Danes said it was not the way they wanted. And we see it today: 82%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end this reservation. Do you not think the opposition, the concern, the scepticism towards more of the European Union in the population is greater than that? And with good reason, because what are we seeing the European Union developing into at the moment? There too there is a great deal of silence from those parties which, in fact, in recent months and years have helped to produce the vision paper for the Europe of the future that we can read in. I am thinking of the representatives of the SF, the Social Democrats and the Left. I can see half of the four being here, sir. Kim Valentin and Mr. Jens Joel, but we have still not heard anything about their contribution to the vision paper, which has therefore been presented under Mr Joel's name. Guy Verhofstadt's leadership. There is talk of a common EU defence, which talks about the abolition of the right of veto. It can also be good the same when we have a Prime Minister who cannot find out how to use the European Union's common minimum wage, common EU taxes, common European referendums, an EU Constitution. This has once been tried, but then the Treaty of Lisbon got its way. There is talk of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate for 16-year-olds among all the EU Member States, who talk about something as refined as EU mayors in all countries and so frequent the holding of folk parliaments. I do not know whether it should replace referendums. What has been the government's response to that? Yes, in a panic, or at least in a hurry, an answer was drawn up to convince people that it would then be opposition to these ideas. But it's not. In the so-called non-paper, i.e. a non-paper or an informal declaration between the 14 countries, they call this an unpreceded demographic exercise, i.e. an unprecedented democratic exercise. Thank you for the inspirational dialogue, i.e. for the inspirational dialogue and welcome the ideas, so the ideas are welcome. The ideas deserve a seriously follow-up, as it says in the paper, therefore deserve serious follow-up, and perhaps most importantly is the finding here: We do not exlude any options at this stage we exclude no options at this stage. This is the position of the Danish Government on the vision paper presented by the EU. That puts a little context on what we are going to meet, what is at stake. We know what reality holds with the reservation: a Denmark that is deeply committed to the world, to NATO, to the United Nations, to voluntary alliances, we know that Denmark with the British and Canadians has already trained the Ukrainian military, we know that Denmark is respected for its commitment, and we can continue to do so if we vote no. If we vote yes, there is no doubt that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and the Prime Minister and the other parties who for years, for decades, or even since they were granted the right to vote, have dreamed of having this reservation removed, would also take advantage of it. Then there will be more Europe, of course at the expense of what we know today, at the expense of NATO, at the expense of the United Nations. I shall therefore, and therefore on behalf of the Danish People's Party, make the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Danish Parliament's concern about the Danish Parliament reminds that the abolition of the defence reserve is a final decision that cannot be changed. And in view of this, the Danish Parliament recommends the Danes on 1 June to vote against the abolition of the defence reserve. • V 94). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162234	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. The proposal here will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first one's for sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162242	Thank you. I'd say that Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt knows the program "Detector" better than most, for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is regularly invited to participate in it. This was also the case in the debate on this referendum, where various myths have been housed and held. One of them is: abolishing the defence reserve, there is a risk that we will have an EU army. That's an allegation, sir. Morten Messerschmidt has toured with. Make that impression on Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that a large number of legal experts, among others. Professor Frederik Waage in the article "Frustrated' Professor will put an end to misunderstanding in the debate on the defence reserve, over and over again telling us that there is nothing that speaks for or creates a legal basis for us to have an EU army if we abolish the defence reserve?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162329	No, what I find interesting is the question: what do we put in the concept of an EU army? Well, today a standing military unit of 5,000 men is being set up. I understand that you have given an interview to Danmarks Radio a few hours ago that the government has not yet announced whether Denmark should participate in it or not to participate in it if it becomes a yes on 1 June. If you make a standing military unit with 5 000 men to act under an EU military command, then I will consider it an EU army. That's what Mr. Professor Frederik Waage relates to whether the EU army can become supranational. I don't think you can find any place I've anticipated that. It is clear that entering a supranational element will require the activation of § 20. So what Denmark's Radio is setting up is a false contradiction, which Mr. Rasmus Stoklund can also make sure if he goes in and sees the broadcast of the Deadline where there was a debate between Professor Frederik Waage and the undersigned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162422	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162423	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt to confirm that it will not lead to an EU army if we abolish the defence reserve on 1 June. Because that's what's at the heart of this. There will be no EU army where anyone in Brussels or elsewhere can decide where to send Danish soldiers. It is only the Folketing that can make that decision. Now we heard Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's adoption text, and it was mentioned here that it would be in competition with NATO if defence cooperation in the European Union were extended. How is this in keeping with the fact that NATO is embracing it here on the contrary? The Secretary-General has strongly advocated that the countries of Europe now take greater responsibility for their own security, and no one has ever said that EU defence cooperation is opposed to NATO, and often it will be the slightly softer missions that the European Union will take care of where NATO takes care of the hard missions, that is, with greater military power.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162515	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162517	What I have said in this election campaign about an EU army is completely consistent and similar. It is the 'yes' parties who have insisted that an EU army means something supranational, in other words, to be able to say that it does not happen all the time. But the yes parties do not have a patent to define what the Danish People's Party is supposed to mean. With regard to NATO, I therefore believe that the rapporteur has just to tune in to what Mr Stoltenberg is saying, because he wants the EU's military ambitions not to compete with NATO, but he warns at the same time that this can happen. I saw an excellent interview with Lotte Mejlhede on TV2 News the other day I can send it to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, because I have it on my phone, where Stoltenberg very clearly says that it will be a challenge if the EU develops a genuine military with a standing military command in competition with NATO. That's where I think sir. Rasmus Stoklund had to consult his EU colleagues down in Brussels to hear that some of them wanted to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162605	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162609	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt for the free elections, because the rapporteur's speech dealt with quite a few other things. With regard to the fact that the Danes are faced with how they choose older services, how they choose their school, and much more: How important is it for the Danish People's Party that the Danes have an extended free choice to the benefits offered by the welfare state?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162641	I think that is very central. But it is clear that there will also be some, for example. older people who may not be able to make their own choice. Now I heard that one of the previous rapporteurs mentioned the very tragic case from East Jutland with the now-known Else. I'm not sure she was able to make another choice. That is why I think it is very important for the relatives to become a bigger part of it. I've got one of them. I note that the Left is in favour of family members being given a greater leadership in the country's nursing home. I think that is extremely important. We also have to respect the fact that there are some older people who are there where they cannot make the free choice, but where there are some other than the state and us politicians who have to do it for them, and that could, for example, be done. be the family.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162720	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162722	May I then expand by asking: where is the Danish People's Party compared to this forced distribution of pupils in high schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162733	We have informed the Minister that we do not intend to vote in favour of that part of the agreement. There has simply been too much going on in recent months, which is causing so much concern and doubt about the model. The part of the agreement that is about holding hands under the national gymnasiums, i.e. to ensure that there is a demographic basis for them, is one hundred per cent on the target. But we shall not be voting in favour of what has been discussed in particular with regard to the major cities, in other words the ghetto schools and so on. On the contrary, we think that the government should call for new negotiations, in which case I hope that the Left will take part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162806	The next brief remark is to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162810	Thank you. Now to something quite different, which is also usually close to the Danish People's Party, namely welfare. After all, the government had proposed a welfare law at some point, i.e. such a law that would ensure that when the demography develops and we get more and more elderly people, more staff must also be included so that we can still maintain good care for the elderly. That law has been drawn because the Radical Left and the Conservatives and the Left would not be part of it anyway, so it does not actually materialise. However, I am a little curious whether the Danish People's Party would have voted in favour of such a law if it had come so far that we could promote the draft law and also dealt with it here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162854	It is absolutely true that the welfare and especially the core welfare, the elderly, etc., are very close to us in the Danish People's Party. That is why I was also sorry that there was no definition of welfare in the draft law put forward by the government. I find that for some parts of the left, it is well-being just to send more money into the ghettoes, and I don't think that's welfare. At least that's not the kind of welfare I want. After all, it is not the case that there is a linear link between increased public spending and welfare. We will, for example: I would very much like to help make the elderly cheque tax-free, if that is what the government is doing. But if welfare is just about spending more money and then they can be used to get money into the ghetto, 2,000 DKK. here and 2,000 kroner. There, it won't be with the support of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162938	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523162940	Then you can hardly ignore it anymore. I'm sorry. But the welfare law was precisely about ensuring that when there are more older people, we also make sure that there are staff to still be able to help people go to the bathroom on time, that you can still get the help that is needed along the way. So we are talking so specifically about care for the elderly and precisely the challenge that there will be more and more elderly people, who will also need more help at some point, and the municipalities need some assurance that they can also plan long-term plans when the forecast is as it is rather secure. Would the Danish People's Party have voted in favour of such a law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163017	Yes, we would like to be in favour of a law, as described by the rapporteur, but that is not what the government put forward. However, compared to what we chose back in 2019, namely that in the older sector there must be an economy that follows demographic developments, as we grow older and older and the medicine becomes more and more refined, but thus also more expensive, so absolutely it is a matter for us. One of the first people I met when I became chairman of the Danish People's Party was the chairman of the Elders case, Mr. Bjarne Hastrup, and it was a very deliberate choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163048	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163050	Thank you. There will be EU issues from others in the Radical Left; it is a good thing that the rapporteur is calling for it, because we are concerned about that too. But I'm gonna ask about the gas pipeline to Lolland. It also supports the Danish People's Party, but I heard earlier in the debate also an opening to the fact that things have actually changed in this area too: we must get rid of Russian gas very quickly. We agree that this is also supported by the Danish People's Party, and there is a lack of manpower for the expansion of the electricity grid that we need right now. Will the Danish People's Party be prepared to either postpone the gas pipeline to Lolland or look at other models?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163136	We believe that it is extremely important to have industrial jobs in relation to the sugar factory and in general at Lolland and elsewhere outside the major cities. And especially if you can do it in a more climate-friendly way. It is not the case that it is written in stone that it should be the gas pipeline that has been adopted now if there are better alternatives in economic or security policy. Then we're completely open to looking at it. The important thing for us is, on the one hand, to ensure a green transition that takes place on market terms, in other words, where we can also make money on it, so to speak, by selling and exporting technology, but, on the other hand, to ensure that the sugar factory and other heavy industrial companies can continue to lie in Denmark and not just move to Poland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163219	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163220	I agree with the latter, and there have just been new calculations showing that electrification is indeed an option. That was one of the things we could not have when it was negotiated, so perhaps we could agree together to demand a real basis for decision-making for it. Because that would be technology, or solutions that could also be exported, contrary to a completely old-fashioned fossil gas pipeline.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163246	I would very much like to contribute to that. Well, it's new to me today. I have heard Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen mention it several times, but I have not seen the data base for this to work with an electrified solution or a PtX solution. If that is the case, we would very much like to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163301	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163305	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt spends a lot of time speaking against abolishing the defence reserve, which I really think is a little strange... that one does not want to abolish a reservation which primarily serves the purpose of restricting what we in the Danish Parliament must do. In other words, if we abolish the defence reserve, we can choose both on and off. The other day I had a debate with the former Chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, where I got the impression that in the Danish People's Party one might actually think that it is a good idea to take part in piracy off the Somali coast, that it is a good idea to help with the arms embargo against Libya, that it is a good idea to help stop the flows of refugees in the Mediterranean, as the European Union has also done in defence cooperation, that it is a good idea with the peacekeeping forces in Bosnia, possibly, but only because it is the EU that has arranged it, one does not want Denmark to participate. I just want to hear: is it that DF's opposition to removing the defence reserve is about individual missions actually wanting to participate in, if only it was not the European Union, but that because it is the European Union, you refuse to join? Is that what the resistance is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163408	I'm really surprised to hear that, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, six years ago, recommended Mr. Alex Vanopslagh quite rightly said that we voted against the removal of the legal reservation and convert it into an opt-in system. And then the argument of the yes parties was also that it would be up to the Folketing on a case-by-case basis to decide where Denmark was going with one to one, such as the ja parties and Mr. Alex Vanopslagh says today in defence. What's weird is that six years ago, sir... Alex Vanopslagh is well aware that it was a problem that the great majority of the people who want more EU were allowed to go to court, but today he has no problem in allowing the vast majority who want more EU to go to the defence sector. So there seems to be some incongruency. However, I would like to say that it is of enormous importance to us that it is the European Union that is responsible for these missions, simply because we believe that it is far better for the Danish troops to have British, Americans and Canadians in the NATO alliance, with not necessarily quite down to the trench, but also in the ear in relation to intelligence, in relation to cyber, etc. There is the European Union of quite another smaller and therefore not very attractive size compared to what we have in NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163520	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163521	I do not really believe that the discussions on the reservation of law and defence can be treated in the same way. It was a clear surrender of sovereignty when it came to the legal reservation. There is no surrender of sovereignty in abolishing the defence reserve... it just gives Denmark more sovereignty, sovereignty to choose on and off. However, I should just like to know whether I have understood correctly that it is not really the individual missions that are under the auspices of the European Union that the rapporteur is opposed to, nor is the rapporteur opposed to Denmark's participation in them, but that the only thing is that it is the European Union that has organised it and that, if it were NATO, it was really awesome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163555	No, there are plenty of NATO missions that we are sceptical about, in other words, both forward-looking and retrospective. So it is not the case that just NATO calls, we say well and are ready to send troops. But it can be said that that part of the EU Treaty, as Mr. Alex Vanopslagh so much wants Denmark to join, we are opposed to, because we think that when we send troops, it is better that it happens in an alliance where our most important and strongest allies in the military field can join, and that is therefore the British and Americans. It is not Cyprus and Malta.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163628	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163630	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Morten Messerschmidt for the speech. I will continue with the discussion on our EU opt-out, because it is true that it has been very much about what could happen. Now, at the request of my colleague, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, carved out that Frederik Waage, professor of law, has said that you cannot create a supranational army, because the constitution will forbid that, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt confirmed today. So it can be said that the Danish law forbids the creation of an actual EU army. Is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt knows about the Irish protocol, which is also legally binding and part of the Treaty basis, where it says that the Treaty of Lisbon does not provide for the creation of a European army? So the European Union cannot, if I may say so, create a European army.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163722	I am quite familiar with Frederik Waage, what I have said and what the Treaty says. That's just not what's central. The key point is that, when we remove the reservation, it is the Treaty in any future form. That is to say, when we have seen over the past many years that the Treaty moves in a certain direction, when we see some of the most benchmark countries in the European Union speak in that direction, if we remove the reservation, it will also be the future treaty to which Denmark has no reservations. There's Mr. Knox. Jens Joel, I was just wondering if Mr. Jens Joel would probably take the floor, because otherwise I would not be able to talk to him in this way, in relation to what the future EU might contain, because he has just been sitting at the conference on the future of Europe which recommends a joint armed force, that is, a common defence. So perhaps he could enrich the Folketing with what it really is for thoughts, sir. Jens Joel has made himself with colleagues when they made the paper that proposed it for the future EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163823	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163825	But it is amazing that a parliamentarian who throws so much around with paragraphs, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, after all, does, at the same time is completely indifferent to what is actually in those paragraphs, because the law is quite clear, and that is what Frederik Waage says, namely that it cannot become a slippery path when it is explicitly excluded from the constitution. Then Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, instead of discussing what people might think somewhere in Europe, is that we actually have a real enemy, if you like, in Putin, and that there is no slippery argument because the law is crystal clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163907	There's a slippery slope. What Frederik Waage is dealing with for reasons which are unknown to me, because I have never talked about a supranational EU army I have talked about intergovernmental cooperation and what the scope of it may be is that it cannot happen without a transfer of new powers. I fully agree with that. No one has ever said that. What is interesting is what the 'yes' parties within the framework of the Treaty today, in other words within the intergovernmental framework, can hand over to the European Union. It is the case that when you send Danish soldiers on an EU mission, you hand it over to an EU defence command, which then decides when the various soldiers will go to war, what the strategy will be, etc. It reminds us of NATO, but it is not because it is the European Union, and it is something radically different.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163948	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523163952	Thank you. The rapporteur is probably still relatively new chairman of the Danish People's Party, and that is why it is a little interesting to learn more about what it will be for a Danish People's Party, we will see now with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in the lead. Under Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard and later Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was the Danish People's Party's Party's support party for a number of bourgeois governments, and one of the characteristics of many of the governments is that there was an economic policy that actually undermined welfare. After all, less money was involved than population development had to be used to maintain the level of service available, for example. care for the elderly. The Danish People's Party has in the past really stood on the side of the elderly and the welfare side, but despite this it has nevertheless supported governments that slowly eroded welfare. That's why it's of course interesting to hear if we're now with Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt is in charge of a Danish People's Party, which will not again be the support party for bourgeois governments that will undermine welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164046	I don't recognize that we had undermined welfare. On the contrary, I think that the Danish People's Party up through the '00s in particular, but also afterwards was a helmsman when it came, for example. In the case of older people's policies. I am thinking of how the Social Democratic Party allowed health policy and older people's policy to operate and, in this way, still does, because it does not become much more than words. Well, it's been a month since you promised $5,000. more in older checks. What's going on with that? I think that there is a great deal in the period in which we cooperated with the Left and the Conservative People's Party in particular, of which we can be proud, and we would like to go further. There are plenty of things, especially in the area of the elderly and also other parts of welfare policy, where we would like to do so and where we will probably also look at it differently than the Left and the Conservatives. But so, my ambition is that the Danish People's Party, as a bourgeois party, can boast of being the soft heart of the blue block, because this is very close to our hearts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164141	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164143	But the last time the Danish People's Party was a support party for a bourgeois government, it was a government that had as a goal that public consumption could only increase 0.3 per cent. and thus the less than demographic development and thus de facto a erosion of welfare. The Danish People's Party voted on this year after year. We're gonna see a new bride with mr. Morten Messerschmidt as chairman of the Danish People's Party, where you will not again cast votes to undermine welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164208	I would like to go back and look up the financial laws that we adopted back from 2015 to 2019, but as I remember it, it was not a erosion of welfare. In other words, as I remember, it was precisely because of the strong mandates and presence of the Danish People's Party that we ensured that more money was constantly given to the health services and to the elderly, yes, a wide range of welfare initiatives. One thing that is quite clear to me, however, is that all the improvements and the financial laws were then voted against in the red block. It may be that the green button glowed, but it was more of conformance than of conviction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164244	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164247	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmidt a question that I think we're all a little curious about in here. It is in fact the question of who the Danish People's Party points to as Prime Minister's candidate. It is because right now we have one Prime Minister's candidate who really wants to do so, and then someone who, at least in the Parliament's speaking chair today, could not quite find out if he wanted to. Someone who has been, and guaranteed some others who might have the ambition. So who really is chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's prime minister's candidate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164327	That's an incredibly exciting question. The sad answer is that as long as there is only one candidate, there is not so much to choose from. I can say so much that it's not going to be sir. Bjørn Brandenborg's candidate, I support. I do not know whether that was what was in the question, i.e. that was what was being fished for. I guess the world's not that good when you look at what you're doing. So right now, there is only one candidate for Prime Minister, and the elections are both boring and therefore easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164356	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164358	Thank you. Then I understand that the Danish People's Party points to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen as Prime Minister's candidate. I'd like to ask you something. It's more of a matter of sightings. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt saw that the chairman of the Conservative People's Party is a little lurefighter, and is he perhaps in fact best in the flight hideout where he has been hiding now, or should he crawl up, freely, not as on the platform, but freely, so that everyone can see and hear whether he wants to be a prime minister candidate? What do you think, sir? Morten Messerschmidt about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164435	In fact, I regard it as one of the great privileges of the chairman of the Danish People's Party to be allowed to be with the gentlemen, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, and I can say that we have very, very many hours together, especially when we are not talking politics. That is where the problems begin. But things are going really well on a personal level. Well, I know Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen as a man who can find out himself when things need to be declared out. I therefore believe that he will pay attention to the fact that somehow I will be a support teacher for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164513	The next brief remark is to Mrs Astrid Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164515	Thank you. On 10 May, a number of youth trade union organizations launched the apprenticeship revolt, and 250 apprentices at that time and even more today had signed up to the fact that it is simply too bad for vocational training. There are worn tools and there are recycled materials. We are talking about 40-year-old equipment, which has nothing to do with the reality they are going into in jobs afterwards, where you have new, up-to-date materials. Some of them even experience using the same machines as their fathers did when they went on the same education. Does the rapporteur not also think, as we do in the SF, that it is crying out for action if we want even more people to take vocational training in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164603	I totally agree. I am sorry I have not heard of this initiative before. When I am not chairman of the Danish People's Party and campaign no, I have the pleasure of participating in a business on the Dyrehavsbakken, where we have a lot of blacksmiths, really talented people, and where I have got a huge respect for both the physical power there you can say that I am a little challenged myself but also the technical skill that needs to be done. If that is really true, and I have no reason to suspect that what you are meeting in the course is 40 years old, then it does not match the reality that is today too skilled. So I would very much like to see the rapporteur get me into that more and then we would like to work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164643	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164645	I thought that, because I know that the Danish People's Party has also had a great interest in improving vocational training in the past, and I fully agree with the rapporteur that what young people are going to encounter, especially now that we need more skilled people for the green transition, is extremely technical, and at the same time we know that we will be lacking skilled people in the future. At the moment, it is not enough to apply to vocational training, and too many people also fall out before they finish their training, and quite frankly there is not much to say about it, if that is what they are meeting out there, with such poor equipment and bad machines. Therefore, I would like to use my second question to hear whether the Danish People's Party is also ready for us to put some money into this, because I do not think we can do it without it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164724	I think the rapporteur is right about this, and I think that sometimes we have to make more stringent demands on companies to take more apprentices and create places for pupils. As I recall, there are 7,000 young people today who are missing a student's seat. After all, business is very good at saying when they want better conditions, lower taxes, less bureaucracy, etc. I think it is a pity, especially at a time when we hear that there is a shortage of labour, that you do not bring in some more students and make sure that they can also get oil and soil, or whatever it is, under their nails.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164759	The next brief remark is to Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164803	Thank you. I would also like to ask a question about the EU's defence reserve and, in fact, make it a little wider, because it is not acceptable that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt feels overlooked and does not feel that he gets enough questions and enough counterplay in connection with this agenda. That is why I would also like to give an opportunity to talk about some of what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt likes NATO, because I understand that the European Union is at least bad. My question is: what is at risk of weakening NATO? Is it that Denmark may become the 21st country involved in defence cooperation both within the EU and NATO, or is it other things, such as the United States? that the United States might consider withdrawing from its commitment to NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164844	I would say that the weakening of NATO is a two-way street. One is about Danish troops, planes, frigates, etc. It can only be one place at a time and that today, as in the past decades, Denmark is fully committed internationally to NATO and the United Nations. I think most people recognize that. If, for example, we do not know what to do. to put in a frigate on the coast of East Africa to fight pirates under EU mandate, then that frigate must come from somewhere. We have five, and then you can choose where to take it from... is it from the territorial enforcement of Greenland, is it from the pirate fight west of Africa, is it from the territorial defence in Denmark? Where's it gonna be? That is what will directly lead to a weakening. In addition to that, of course, there are the many and powerful forces in the European Union who are talking about what Stoltenberg is just warning against: strategic autonomy, where you want the European Union to separate itself from the NATO alliance, from the British and Americans, for NATO is fortunately more than the Americans; it is very Americans, but it is not only the Americans; the British should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164949	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523164951	Thank you for the answer, which was more about how it might be in Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's eyes could weaken Denmark's commitment to NATO, that we are also in other contexts and, after all, not so much about weakening NATO. I just want to ask you this: Mr Morten Messerschmidt, that it will be NATO who will be responsible for stability in Europe's immediate regions? Is this a scenario, as Mr. Mr Messerschmidt considers it likely, that it will be primarily through NATO, that we can help to secure stable neighbourhoods for Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165021	No, it can be said that the Ukraine war has shown that the United States still wants to leave Europe. I think that the first few months were given 20 billion. Dollars for Ukraine, and 16 of them came, as I remember, from the United States. So it has to be said that the Americans have really shown that they are still loyal to it. However, with regard to the slightly longer track, I think Mrs Sophie Callesen is absolutely right, but that can just never be an argument for creating a competing military unit within the European Union. Among other things: Because the British have lost and left the European Union, it is so important that the new military armament that is to take place is within NATO and not outside NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165103	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165104	Yes, it is a little unusual, but my name was drawn into the debate here some time ago by some Socialist rapporteurs, and I would just like to ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to confirm what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also confirmed before that inequality in Denmark has actually increased during this government funny enough. And then I have to say, I was so much with the time too. 4:00 in the morning, over at the Treasury when we sat there. And it's 100 percent certain that when we were done at noon. 4.00-5.00 in the morning, when we made finance agreements, we always brought the elderly with us, as opposed to what was done before. I think it is below level that in this debate, where so many important things are at stake, attempts are being made to create uncertainty about these things. What's important to me is that sir... Morten Messerschmidt just confirms that inequality has actually increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165152	I am glad that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard mentions this, because of course I should have said so myself in the answer earlier just to get the factual basis in place. I was so concerned to tell you about all the good that the Danish People's Party would like, in the welfare field, in the area of the elderly, etc., that I was not able to say how bad the current government is doing. But that is quite right: I can confirm that Mrs Mette Frederiksen's government has increased inequality against the promise made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165214	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard to another point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165216	I'm just glad that we can complement each other, so what one doesn't say, the other says, and I just think that's fine. But may I just say about the level, and I would like to ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to confirm that you are starting to draw who is to be Prime Minister into this debate, where we are in front of a vote on the defence reserve on 1 June, and where there are so many important things at stake that it is low sometimes. It may be that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt contradicts me, but I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165242	In any case, I would have liked the parties which wish to set a new course for Denmark in the field of defence policy to have entered into this vote more wholeheartedly. I think it's taken a long time for you to get started. I can only agree with that. And the fact that it is so little in the minds of those parties which therefore recommend that the reservation be removed also in a debate like this today is really remarkable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165308	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165311	I would like to say thank you very much for the Danish People's Party's school play. I think that is one of the most exciting things that has come out over the last few months, because here you can read that the Danish People's Party wants to run our schools; so the Danish People's Party will decide three out of four of the texts that you have to teach at school. It makes me want to ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt: If there were some others who decided three out of the four things that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was supposed to stand on the platform, would it be a more or less passionate speech?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165342	I've kept lots of speeches full of passion that others have written, but that's not the point. Nor is the point that the Danish People's Party is about to make a curriculum list; the point is that some experts have to make sure that no matter where in Denmark you live and grow up, you have a common cultural base. I really think that it is good at a time when many young people are perplexed and rootless and find it difficult to find out what it is to be, what it is to be Danish, that everyone has a common base, knows about the history of Denmark, knows about Danish literature, can see themselves in a larger context and not just as a fragmented individual, but as part of a people. That is why we have said that in some core areas, which are part of primary school, we would like to see a common foundation shared by all those who pass through primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165440	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165441	In other words, in the Radical Left we are in favour of abolishing the common objectives and the target management that is now in place, and we would like to develop new common objectives which, of course, must be made by the teachers, but which must describe some general areas of content; unlike the Danish People's Party, which wants to govern the individual texts in which the teachers must teach. In other words, why does the Danish People's Party not have confidence that it is the teachers who know best and that it gives a completely different commitment to teaching if you are learning, for example. must work with the Viking Age and can choose whether it is one text or another and do so in the way that makes sense for the students you have in your class. Why does the Danish People's Party not have that confidence in teachers?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165520	Unfortunately, as part of the fragmentation we are experiencing, teachers are also under pressure. I mean, I often get inquiries from schoolteachers, for example. history or geography teachers who are challenged by very self-conscious students about what to teach in relation to e.g. The history of the Middle East. It could also be in relation to sex education, it could also be in relation to biology education, in other words all sorts of areas where some people are beginning to question whether it should now be the theory of evolution, or whether Israel even exists, etc. etc. There is really a strengthening of the school that we are saying: No, we are now putting some experts in the position of someone who really knows how to make a foundation, and that is what we are all standing on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165602	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, thank you to the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next party on the platform is New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523165621	Now we're about to have a parliamentary election. Today is the third time we have met for a final debate under the regime of this government, and I hope that this will be the last time. When I was elected to the Danish Parliament in 2019 and Mrs Mette Frederiksen took office as Prime Minister, I promised myself that I would praise the Social Democratic Government when it did it well. I've kept that promise. But I must admit that it is now a very long time since I have had the plus words on my lips when we met in this Chamber. For the country's leadership under Mrs Mette Frederiksen has evolved into one of the worst things I have experienced in my lifetime. The Minkskandal is, of course, a pillar of shame over the government. An entire profession and a career for thousands of Danes have been removed with a snap without a legal home. This was achieved only afterwards when the irregularities were discovered, and since then, while journalists and Parliament have tried to clarify the error, we have seen how the inertia and reluctance of the government have affected the possibilities of clarifying the matter. All Danes today know how the top of the government deletes text messages and thus its tracks. Under the corona, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen's leadership let herself be conducted more out of fear than out of fact. The restrictions were often illogical and incoherent, and they were maintained much longer than was necessary. The Danes' confidence in politicians in general is undermined when they behave in this way with power and at the top. It is usually said that the Danes have the politicians they deserve. That is no longer true. The Danes have not earned Mrs Mette Frederiksen's government, the Danes deserve better, much better. The parliamentary year that is now ending has also offered several attempts to interfere with the Danes' lives, which show with what contempt for freedom the government is wandering around. A former leading opposition politician will be prosecuted without anyone knowing the indictment, and the members of the Folketing will be forced to lift his or her immunity blindly. We want to decide where young people are going to go to high school; we want to ban adults from buying cigarettes; we want to introduce no-go zones and ban law-abiding citizens from moving freely on public streets and places; we want to ban private welfare entrepreneurs from making money; we want to maintain a heavy and ineffective public system; and when we have to give the municipalities more freedom, we have been careful to remove the citizens' right to free choice between public and private. In New Citizens we have a goal that politicians should decide less and that Danes should decide much more for themselves, including more of their own money. Mrs Mette Frederiksen's government is working hard to the contrary. Every day you make sure that the Danes can decide less for themselves, also over their own money. Power is increasingly concentrated around the government, it is not healthy for the people's regime. That is why we would very much like to have a parliamentary election soon. The Danes must have the freedom to live and adapt as best they can for the individual family; we must not all conform to Mrs Mette Frederiksen's head. When I became involved in politics, I lived alone with three young children. I had taken an extra job to afford to stay in the house, the children's childhood home, after the divorce, but although I worked extra to support myself and my family, I felt powerless not to be master of my own life. When I gave it an extra shell, the politicians just set up my treasure. On the other hand, as a single parent, I could get subsidies for one thing and the other, if I just volunteered as a welfare state client and ran the municipality on the doors. Politicians sat and put up taxes with one hand and handed out cheques with the other. I decided to fight that. That was where I started talking about smaller states and more people, and especially in these times, less state and more people are making more and more sense. Because prices are rising, everything is becoming more expensive and international threatens both inflation and breakage of supply chains. So far, the government has been unable to do anything but demand further into the public funds. The taxes have been set up 30-40 times since you gained power in 2019, the money is lightly spent without distinction, that it is in fact other people's money that you are tucking away with, while the purchasing power of the Danes decreases. Out in the families, you look at the budgets and realize that you have to save. It's not like that in here. Here the government makes support and help packages for selected groups. More money is being set aside for the world's largest public sector to become even bigger, and all calls to hold back are being met with the opposite. Most recently, we saw the government's finance minister with a snap rejecting discipline and declaring the budget law nullified. Then there is a free run towards the edge of the abyss, and I can easily see the abyss for me if the Socialist Government, with the support of the left, is allowed to continue. The abyss is the inevitable point that social democratic governments will always reach at some point. There is what always happens to the Reds when they have power: they run out of other people's money. For the Danes, I want us to have a parliamentary election so that we can slow down in time, enough time for it not to be too expensive to clean up afterwards. One might well ask: what is to replace the Social Democratic power machine? Does bourgeois Denmark have anything to offer? Don't we just get more of the same? I understand if you hesitate and take a little doubt, because when we look back at the previous periods with a bourgeois majority, it is not a fireworks of exuberant bourgeois renaissance that lights up the political sky. Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's last government was probably highly rated just a little spouting Chinese of bourgeois politics, and the bourgeois parties and not least the recent bourgeois government led by Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has as much responsibility as the Reds for the foreign policy not being solved from scratch yet. I am not at all concerned with who is to be Prime Minister of a future civil government, but I am extremely concerned about what policy should be pursued and what should be done. First and last, you have to be familiar with your bourgeoisie. You cannot make the Danes freer and richer if you have to sound like a bad substitute for a social democrat every day. How can the Danes feel proud of their own bourgeois ideals if the leaders of the bourgeois parties themselves do not want or dare to stand firm on bourgeois values and bourgeois politics? In New Citizens, we have used the time in opposition to develop bourgeois politics in almost all areas. We know what we want, we know how, and we also have the funding in place. I miss that too, and I think most of the bourgeois voters do hear and see a solid bourgeois project drawn up by the two largest parties in the bourgeois opposition, and then I miss the recognition of the two parties that there has to be a plan that solves the immigration policy from the bottom up. I haven't seen anything about it. It is my impression that both in the Left and in the Conservative People's Party, we know very well where the shoe prints. The proposal for adoption we have presented today bears witness to this. We agree that if you come to Denmark, you have to support yourself, respect our culture and comply with our legislation. That is what the proposal for adoption says. These are good wordings, and these are three basic prerequisites for resolving foreign policy from the bottom up. However, the Left and the Conservative People's Party owe me and the Danes an answer to how it should be implemented. There is a task to be done, there is work to be done. Both, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, A bourgeois prime minister candidate who will not do this task will not be Prime Minister with the support of New Citizens. The Danes deserve once and for all to solve foreign policy from scratch. My message to Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170532	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Marie Gudme, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170538	Thank you. It was a relief that spread as I read that Mrs Pernille Vermund has said that New Citizens will not vote to abolish the right to the Arnepension which 33 500 Danes have already been awarded. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund whether she will give an assurance from the Chair of Parliament that if there is a blue majority after the next elections, then New Citizens and Mrs Pernille Vermund will not vote to abolish the right to early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170627	We went constructively and positively to the negotiations on Arnepensionen. We recognise, and I recognise, that there are people in our labour market who have arrived very early in the labour market and who have been on the labour market at a time when there have not been the same technological opportunities and tools as we have today. Through my own trade, I often saw them at the construction sites. Even at a relatively young age began knees, elbows etc. To work. So we fully acknowledge that. What we have said from the beginning is that if you withdraw people from the labour market, you must also ensure that in the same exercise you increase the supply of work. That is why, when we went to the negotiations, we proposed that when Arne should have the right to retire earlier, Bjarne, who has been on the labour market for just as long, should have a tax rebate, so that the possibility of staying on the labour market may be part-time or full-time and earn a little extra for himself is there and so that we do not pull out more than is very necessary. At the same time, we also proposed removing the graduation rate so that the young people who are healthy and bodied and who really ought to get out to order something came out, and so that they could compensate for the lack of employment that was due to the Arne pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170732	Mrs. Marie Gudme.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170733	Thank you. There is one but, on the other hand, Mrs Pernille Vermund has also said that new citizens want to change in Arnepensionen, and I would like to hear what is more concrete that New Citizens will change. And I would also like to know whether the Danes who have already been awarded Arnepension have reason to be concerned about what New Citizens will vote for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170803	I will answer the latter first, because there are probably some Danes out there and are rightly concerned. It depends entirely on the parties to the agreement behind Arnepensionen. We are not part of the agreement, and when we were not, it was because, on the one hand, we were not willing to give a tax rebate to those Bjarner who had been on the labour market as long as Arne, if they remained on the labour market, and, on the other hand, we were not willing at that time to remove the graduation rate and thus ensure that the young people were able to order something. If you're willing to open the negotiations and get these two things in, then we're in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170835	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170838	Thank you. After all, there are some things on which the rapporteur and I can agree, and there are also some things we cannot do. It comes, among other things. in relation to the EU. The Liberal Alliance does not want Denmark to be withdrawn from the European Union, and we want the defence reserve to be abolished. I think the best example of an EU mission, which has been for many years now... it is not active right now... which Denmark should have participated in, is the defence cooperation that was about preventing the flow of refugees from the Mediterranean from coming up to Europe. If, once again, the European Union wants action to prevent the flow of refugees from coming to Europe, does Mrs Pernille Vermund think that Denmark should not contribute to this, because we have this reservation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170917	Yes, because that very mission was completely missed. It was counterproductive, and fortunately it was also shut down after two years. It ran from 2015, as far as I remember, until 2017, Operation Sophia. It turned out that these EU-flagged EU vessels, which were sent out in front of the Libyan coast, gave the traffickers and migrants a shorter way to Europe, because the ships were obliged, when they met a ship of smugglers and migrants, to take the migrants on board and sail them to Europe. So this is one of many examples of totally failed EU missions, which I am very pleased that we have not voted on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170955	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523170957	But then let us take the hypothetical scenario where there is an EU mission that really prevents the flow of refugees from coming to Europe. Is it New Citizens' policy, the shining star of the right, who cannot stand immigration to Denmark, that Denmark should not contribute to it; the Germans and the French and the Greeks must cope with it; we do not care, but we would like to reap the benefit from such an effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171021	But the dilemma here is exactly as it was in this operation Sophia, as it was when we were supposed to prevent piracy and ended up taking a one-legged pirate to Denmark. We have some obligations that the majority of this Parliament insists that we must respect in relation to some human rights, and those human rights do, whether we are talking about piracy or whether we are talking about trafficking in human beings, that if a ship meets people who are in need, we risk having them with us to Denmark, and that is why there is a one-legged pirate in Denmark sitting on a one-legged pirate who must live on passive support, probably for years, and live on the Danish health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171057	Thank you, Mr President. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171101	Thank you so much. I note that Mrs Pernille Vermund, at the beginning of her speech, says that we must soon have a parliamentary election. And at the end of the speech, the rapporteur mentions both Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen and Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr Ellemann-Jensen, Mr And without taking part in the bourgeois meetings, which I understand are in the blue block, I have only heard that there is one Blue Prime Minister candidate, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who has volunteered. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund: Does Mrs Pernille Vermund think that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen should soon join the field as a civil prime minister candidate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171142	Well, that depends on what sir. Søren Pape Poulsen will use his power if he becomes prime minister. Because, as I said in my speech, it does not depend on who is Prime Minister of a bourgeois government. It depends on what policy you want to pursue and what direction you want for Denmark. And for us it is absolutely crucial: the foreign policy must be resolved from scratch, and then Denmark must be drawn in a more bourgeois direction. And that of the two or three or four or how many who are now joining the field as prime minister candidates for the bourgeois bloc, the bourgeois opposition, who will solve those demands, gets our support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171214	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171215	So let's just play with that hypothetical question: if and if Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen would like to join us as Prime Minister's candidate, can Mrs Pernille Vermund only point to a Prime Minister's candidate if he or she otherwise meets the ultimate requirements of the New Citizens' Party, as I understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171244	The word for the next brief remark goes to Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171247	Thank you very much. I heard the rapporteur call Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government for a little buzzing Chinese of bourgeois politics. And then we have to understand that New Citizens are ready to be a festive fireworks of bourgeois politics. So I would like to ask New Citizens whether they want to abolish the Climate Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171304	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171306	This is not our primary priority, and we recognise that it is virtually all parties in the Folketing, with the exception of us and the Liberal Alliance, that have supported the Climate Act. What is absolutely crucial to me is what steps are being taken when it comes to the green transition. And where the bourgeois parties typically say that this should not cost growth, prosperity and jobs, and, on the contrary, it should contribute, there are parties on the left who seem to be more indifferent to it. So for us, it's about how this is done. And I have to say that our fundamental scepticism about the Climate Act has been justified by the fact that it would become nationalistic, that there would be too much leakage as a result of the Climate Act, and that is also one of the things I think we can see already. I mean, you're sitting there flicking some numbers and trying to push some discharge out of the country, even though you know that this production has to happen somewhere. And I do not think that is appropriate. I mean, I am a fatherly and national mind, but nationalistic climate policy I simply do not believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171411	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171412	Well, on the New Citizen's website you can read that the 70-percent target is neckless deed. But you don't think so when it comes down to it? So in reality, it's probably just a phony we're dealing with here. I find it hard to see the very exciting party fireworks when you don't even dare go against what you yourself call neckless deed on your own website.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171435	But the fact that we believe it to be deedless does not necessarily mean that the whole parliament means it. And again, it is absolutely crucial to me that, if we are to have a green transition, it must be done in a way where the leakage is not too great, where we do not lose economic growth and prosperity and do not lose jobs. After all, economic growth and prosperity are the prerequisites for us to invest in our privacy or in our businesses in the technologies needed to carry out the green transition. The fact that we do not get a majority in favour of this is such a completely pragmatic recognition that, after all, we and the Liberal Alliance will unfortunately not get 90 mandates after the next elections. And that's what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171513	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171516	Thank you. I was very pleased when it was that we were going to a consultation which was about sick people in the job centres being treated in a very unfair manner. A majority, those behind the reconciliations, from the SF to the Liberal Alliance, have created a system that comes before man. But then something happened, I don't know what it was at all, but it did make me at least wonder what New Citizens' policy is in this area. It's like the headline about shutting down the job centres, but what's actually underneath it? For suddenly a municipality was criticized for not running the hard style, and that just makes me a little in doubt, because we have some people here who have been stuck for really, very many years, and they need help. Therefore, I would just like to ask whether it is New Citizens' policy to leave sick people entirely to themselves and that they cannot get any help, or does New Citizens think that we should strengthen such things as rehabilitation, education, support people and actually help them to have the calm and recovery that they need. Does the rapporteur have the opportunity to elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171621	Yes, I'd love to, and thank you for the question. We want to close the Danish job centres, and instead we want to ensure that there is an independent medical assessment for those who are sick and worn out. It should not be the case that it is your own doctor, but it should be an independent medical assessment that determines whether you are too ill or too worn out to work. We would also like to introduce a temporary early retirement pension so that those who are not chronically ill, but perhaps have the opportunity to get back on their feet, they may be homeless, they may be people who are mentally down for a period of time, and they may also be people with cancers that we hope will recover from, they will have a break where the economy does not squeeze and where you can get peace to recover. For those who are not sick and worn out, that is to say ordinary citizens, who are only today turned into public clients from day one, we will make another scheme based on no cure, no pay for those who help them in jobs if you want help from the public. However, there should not be a mastodon in the form of job centres around the country, which spend infinite amounts of money, more than 4 billion, alone on administration, and then do not even do it as they are legally required to do. It is not because I know what to do but, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, it screams to heaven that so much money is spent on something that obviously does not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171742	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171743	The problem is that it is not just that it does not work, but that we can see that it makes people more ill than they have ever been before entering the system. I really wish that it was across all the political parties that one could agree that the system that has been created is completely insane. Thanks for the investigation. I think that what may then be the problem is that some of the people who then need help will need help from the health services or from some other places, so can New citizens not be concerned that the inequality-building policy that they want to create, where they want to privatise a great many things, does not make it tax-paid but user-paid, and that it is precisely going to hit some of them here really hard because they are not able to afford to pay for the help they want?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171823	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171825	We are not in favour of increased user charges. On the contrary, we are in favour of the money being followed by the citizens, so that our welfare, our core welfare, is still paid out of tax, but that we, as citizens, as patients or as elderly people in the care of the elderly, can choose freely between public and private services. Today it is the case that it is the wealthy to pay off a quick operation or receive additional benefits when they get a little older, and there we think it must be quite reasonable that, with the money we pay over the tax, we should be free to choose if we get into the situation that we have to operate, for example, between private and public.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171903	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523171924	Thank you. I would venture to claim that, despite our political differences and our political differences in this regard, the vast majority of us share some fundamental ideals. This concerns, among other things: on the ideal of liberal democracy, in which each of us has rights which the state must not violate; we share the ideal of being a community of law, with equality before the law, with restrictions on state power; and not least that we are a government of the people, in other words, where neither the Folketing nor the people can be rolled over. Nevertheless, I feel obliged to make a worried call, because I am saying things are getting out of hand. Things are progressing in our people's rule, in our community of law, and I am sorry to say, too, and it is not only because I am paid for it as an opposition politician that we have seen things go quite far too many times in this parliamentary term. I openly recognise that this is a matter of dilemmas, including the rule of law, but I do not see it as a matter of primarily whether you trust the Attorney General or whether you think it is fine to break your confidentiality, no, for me, this is primarily a matter of how to use the power you get when you sit in government. Because we have to keep in mind that sir... Claus Hjort Frederiksen was only involved in all of this because, in line with many other former prime ministers, former department chiefs, he could not bear to look at the government's repatriation of the Defence Intelligence Service. We now know that the former Minister for Defence, Mrs Trine Bramsen, has signed the papers on NSA cooperation herself, but yet she returned the entire FE leadership and created a major crisis about the Danish intelligence service due to the very same NSA cooperation that the supervision got wind of and criticised. Since then, the FE management was purely acquitted, so the repatriation was an overreaction, it was a mistake. The government ended up unnecessarily weakening the defense intelligence service. It is, of course, a scandal in the true sense of the word, as Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen has quite naturally criticized, but since he mentions it and confirms the already well-known NSA collaboration publicly, the possibility arises to charge him with treason with up to 12 years in prison. This is a matter in which the objective must then be to reduce and shut down all the attacks on the Defence Intelligence Service, and then it is an incomprehensible decision to choose to press charges against Mr Tugendhat. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, for it is only then that NSA cooperation is mentioned. It is, I think, a bad idea and it is almost so bad that I find it difficult to imagine that it should be an official who has come up with it, but even if it is an official who came up with that idea, it could have been put down politically. But at any rate, it ends with Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen is charged, and the matter is immediately darkened. None of us can know what he's charged with. Has he sold state secrets to the Chinese? Has he called the Russians and told them where the cables are buried? Or has he just confirmed information that was already publicly known? The government doesn't want to explain it to the Folketing, because then the government risks exposing the state secret that we have to understand, sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen has already revealed, but if it is the case that cable cooperation with the NSA should be secret, what do you think has just been revealed by indicting Claus Hjort Frederiksen for the disclosure of state secrets? I think it's a grotesque and extraordinary cause. Personally, I chose not to accept the orientation of the matter, because then I would not be able to give this speech, and I think it is a little strange that we can inform Mr. Sikandar Siddique, but not Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen in such a case. In his leader in Weekendavisen, Chief Editor Martin Krasnik has quite precisely said what needs to be said, and now I quote: "It is the expression of a government that behaves like a monolith, a stone block that rolls through the landscape unable to stop even when it pushes over important things on the road: legal certainty, orderlyness, accountability. It is a government in which crucial decisions are taken by very few people who obviously do not listen to objections or are influenced by reality. At least that quote brings my memories back to the corona crisis, where for a few hours here in the Danish Parliament, including the Liberal Alliance, it was all the parties in here, we adopted a very far-reaching epidemic law, in which we gave the government the power, without having to involve ourselves later in restricting the freedom of the Danes, including their freedom of assembly, to shut down their business without compensation, to send the courts home, even though it was unconstitutional, and I think it is frightening to look back on how little really needed was for us to compromise on the ideals that I think we all share in here. Of course, the whole thing peaked with the mink case itself, and it is a well-known case, so I will not spend so long on that, but at a 44-minute meeting it was decided that the whole mink business should be eliminated, even if no authorities stopped it, even if the authorities did not recommend it, even if no one had read the annexes, and even if there was no legal basis in place. So it's pretty crazy, it's an example of a violent move. I think, however, that the worst thing was the subsequent process in which attempts were made to cover up the matter and also spoke untruely to the people and the Folketing. I really am not saying this to be polemical, because it is not my intention to be polemical, but no one in here believes that the texts were deleted for security reasons. Surely no one in here believes that the prime minister of the country was the last in the kingdom to be told that there was no legal basis, that it should not have happened until Sunday evening, after all the rest of us knew, after it was in the press. That is an absurd claim, but it is something we have let pass. We have allowed a prime minister to come up with an obvious falsehood, and it is therefore a slip in our popular rule when we allow that sort of thing. The common denominator for these matters is that we are partly overreacting and acting frantically, that we are preoccupied with acting, but also that we, and I say we, and it is the right thing, are not the false thing that we in the Folketing have not been effective enough to refrain from when the government has gone too far when the government interprets its mandate as if it were ultimate. But the government is only on loan, and the same goes for the state apparatus that comes with it, but we have seen examples of the state apparatus that things are slipping. There has been an historically large number of press executives with the party book in order. That is what the former Press Commissioner in the Ministry of Finance said when she stopped 2020, where she said it is a difficult position to have if you are not a professional social democrat. It's hard to be a neutral official if you're not a professional social democrat. It's a slip in our people's rule! Again, I am not saying it to be polemical or because I am in opposition, because I would also say it if it were a blue government. We have also seen examples of an increase in government management and, as I have mentioned earlier, it has also been claimed that the authorities have recommended some things in relation to the minkskandal and corona closure, where it has since come to light that this was not true. And when you act in this way, you risk undermining something that is actually quite unique and quite beautiful in Denmark, namely our undefiled and neutral civil service and authorities, which we all, all citizens, regardless of political observation, can really trust. It is a trust that has been painstakingly built up over a century, but it is the confidence that we are in danger of losing. Not by pointing out the problems in the opposition, but by politicising the office. It is not my claim that we are suddenly living in a banana republic, just because we have had a red government for three years, because of course we are not doing that; it would be a silly exaggeration; it is our traditions and our institutions too strong for that, but it is not the case that a community of law ends up waning. A decay happens quietly, step by step, bite by bit. The fall happens when we ring our own at all costs, even when they cross the border, and the fall happens when we speak untruely to be right, even if we are not right. The fall happens when we look at everything we politicians must not do to the citizens, but still find wrinkled roads around it to do so. Finally, so many small and perhaps innocent steps have been taken away from being a community governed by the rule of law, to the fact that the step that must be taken to no longer be a community governed by the law is suddenly no longer so great. And I am concerned that, step by step, even before this parliamentary term, we are working hard on our rule of law, I am worried about our people's rule when I look at the way in which power has been used in recent years, and I can just as clearly say this to my colleagues in the blue bloc: I will never, never, ever support a similar behaviour on the part of a blue government that is dependent on the mandates of the Liberal Alliance. Whatever the colour of the government after an election, I hope that, as a Parliament, we will be better at putting our feet down when things get out of hand. We have a people's government to watch out for, and we are not only elected to hype our little poop horses and divide ourselves by opinion; we are also elected for that, but we are very much elected to take care of our people's rule. People's rule has been here long before we were all born, and it should also be here just as strong and robust, the day neither of us is here anymore. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523172919	Thank you. There are a number of brief remarks. The first is for Mrs Maria Gudme. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523172923	Thank you. One could recently read that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh called it lax and unambitious if you as a citizen do not want to support zero growth. That is why I would like to hear: can the Liberal Alliance see itself as a support party for a government which is pursuing a so-called lax and unambitious fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523172945	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523172947	Thank you. But the Liberal Alliance will do everything in our power to ensure that a blue government does not pursue a lax and unambitious fiscal policy. We believe that the public sector has plenty of money in advance and that priority can be given to the costs we have today. We believe that we can gain more innovation and thus also more welfare for the money by freeing the welfare. So we're gonna fight for that. However, I am genuinely more concerned that we are getting the public sector free than we are doing less, but both are Liberal Alliance policy, and I will do everything I can to keep the Left and Conservatives in the ears of that agenda, because they are especially those who have to be kept in their ears. They have the privilege of being big folk parties, and that means that they have to adapt their policies to the electorate. I have the privilege of belonging to a very small party, so I can adjust my position to what I think is right, and I think that civil Denmark also needs such a party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173036	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173038	Thank you. The reason why I am asking is that in the Liberal Alliance's economic 2035 plan it also says that it is not just a matter of zero growth, but that it is also in favour of cutting welfare costs by 10%. So I am also just curious about whether the Liberal Alliance will really support a government that intends to spend more money on the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173106	Well, it is absolutely true that we have the policy that the world's largest public sector can well get smaller. And I do not really think that is an extreme point of view. The extreme view is to say that the world's largest public sector must be even greater. So the problem in Danish politics is not the wings... the problem in Danish politics is the middle of Danish politics, which is too extreme and unambitious. Can we support a blue government that ends up making the public sector bigger? Well, I'm not much for it; I'm fighting for the opposite, I can't answer. If, at the end of the day, we have a blue majority which is pursuing the same policy as a red government, then we are not going to support a blue government. But I wonder if we can get a blue government on better terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173138	Thank you. The next brief remark is on Mrs Camilla Fabricius. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173142	Thank you. I have listened a little bit to what the rapporteur is saying here about being concerned about the rule of law. I am genuinely concerned that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh cannot receive any confidential information about Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen and then participate in the public debate. How can a leader of a political party not receive confidential information and at the same time participate? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173217	If I had been given the confidential information where I was confirmed that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen had exposed NSA cooperation, so I would not have been able to give the speech I just gave; I would not be able to say these words. I'd break my confidentiality, too. And I do not want to remain silent on this matter, because I think it is absurd that we have reached the point where the government is making a huge mistake by repatriating the entire FE leadership, which later turns out to be an overreaction. They're all gonna be acquitted. Sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen criticises it; so does the former Prime Minister, former Head of Department. This is a matter of public interest. I have to be able to criticise the fact that we have reached that point. Because I believe that this is primarily a matter of bad political management and not of what the Attorney General has proposed. That's why I chose not to take that briefing because I wanted to be able to speak freely in the public debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173303	So when one of the country's highest officials comes and has to give an orientation, the leader of the Liberal Alliance chooses not to accept that orientation in order to be able to stay free to discuss in this Chamber. Is that how you're supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173318	Yes, it must be understood that I believe that there are some who should be able to take part in the public debate and criticise the government for this process, and I do not feel I could do that if I was given a confidential information about something which is already well known. Well, there's NSA cooperation. Claus Hjort Frederiksen has said so. It is clear that I look stupid if he has actually called the Chinese and sold state secrets or told the Russians where the cables are buried. After all, there is no indication of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173341	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173344	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I know that the rapporteur loves freedom and maybe even claim to like it more than I do. Well, we can discuss that for hours. One of the areas where the government has limited the freedom of the Danes is when young people have to choose a youth education. After all, it's been a few years since I was in that situation myself. That wasn't so many years ago, sir. Alex Vanopslagh was in that situation, so maybe it's more present. That's why Mr. Alex Vanopslagh perhaps put more words on what he thinks about the government's coercive action against young people who should not be allowed to decide for themselves where they will go in high school.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173429	When I wrote a draft of this speech, I brought in a section which, among other things, on the subject, where I tried to paint a more general picture of what we are really seeing in our democracy these years. After all, it is increasingly the idea that we humans are divine and that we can design the perfect society as if we are such social engineers who can make people's choices in relation to the free choice of high school, in relation to how the boards are to be composed, in relation to how maternity leave is to be distributed and where the Left has also supported limiting citizens' freedom. I think that is a dangerous trend. I also think that this is a dangerous trend in relation to young people's free choice of secondary school. We must ensure this, and we must also do so in relation to the family's other free choice or the free choice of companies. I therefore believe that I have also mentioned why the Liberal Alliance is fighting more for freedom than the Left. Now I have some doubts as to whether or not you are in favour of women's quotas on boards, but whether or not you support the restriction of free maternity and the free distribution of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173519	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173520	It is, of course, the hour-long debate that we will have here afterwards. We do not restrict citizens' freedom of choice. We say that certain requirements follow when you receive public services. I think that is something that the Liberal Alliance can also endorse. But the short of the long one is: the question was asked before whether the Liberal Alliance can support a blue government which does not necessarily want to reduce the public sector. What is most important for the Liberal Alliance is that the citizen really has the opportunity to choose freely in his or her own life, or is it a restriction on the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173553	Well, I am most concerned that welfare is improving and welfare is taking place on the basis of the citizens. I therefore want the municipality to play a smaller role, the public sector to play a smaller role, private welfare entrepreneurs to play a greater role, relatives to play a greater role, citizens to play a greater role. And then it's secondary to me whether the public sector is getting smaller, but we're going to put our arm on it for many hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173618	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173621	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Now I understand that one should at least not be a social engineer, but sometimes social engineering develops into entrepreneurship instead, and that is, for example, when one goes to war in the world and wants to change societies around the world. It can be said that this is basically what lies in the military dimension of the European Union, where we send troops to defend our interests around the world to ensure access to resources. It can be gas in Mozambique, or it can be uranium in the Sahel. Could Mr. Alex Vanopslagh may be a little more specific in relation to the actions that currently lie in the military dimension of the European Union, in other words in terms of what actions the Liberal Alliance believes can be supported and where it is reasonable that we should go and defend our resources and trade interests, for example. In Africa?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173719	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173720	I therefore believe that efforts to ensure that peace in Bosnia is respected and where Russia is also haunting the background are extremely relevant. I do not know if the Danish defence has relevant competences to contribute, but if we do, then I think we have an interest in contributing there. The same applies to the arms embargo against Libya. These are two specific examples of missions in which Denmark could participate. The same applies if there are missions to prevent the flow of refugees from coming up to Europe, so that we avoid a scenario of what we saw in 2015. I would also like to say clearly that there are several of the missions in Africa where I do not see what neither the EU nor Denmark should be doing there. The only small concern I can have by removing the defence reserve is that it may cause a majority in here to lose their critical sense and will send Danish soldiers out on missions alone to send a signal to Brussels that we are in it. I am not in politics to send signals to Brussels I am in politics to do what I think is best for Denmark, and I also think it is best for Denmark to abolish the defence reserve and participate in the missions that make sense and where we can contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173821	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173823	Well, that's a very relevant concern to have, but Mr. Alex Vanopslagh did not also acknowledge that if it is the case that you are now joining and going fully into it, then there is some sort of obligation that you should also contribute both economically and militarily? So that pressure, sir. Alex Vanopslagh may be concerned that some parties in the Danish Parliament will arise from outside, i.e. from the European Union, by having a clear expectation that we will contribute. Because you don't say yes to say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173851	Personally, I do not want the slightest difficulty in saying no to some of the EU missions that I do not think Denmark should take part in or in which I do not think it should take place at all. And I can only make the call to my colleagues in the Folketing that they also maintain their common sense and critical sense. Can There Be Pressure? Yes, there are many things that can be done. There may also be pressure from the electorate that when there is inflation, unfunded cheques must be sent out to the electorate, and there you have a responsibility to say: we do not do that, it is irresponsible. So we are used to having pressure in politics, and perhaps it is pressure from the electorate that is more worrying than the pressure from Brussels, but both can be worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173926	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523173929	Thank you for that and thank you for an excellent speech, which, of course, puts the finger on much of what is problematic with the current government. Some of what has happened in recent years has been possible and has been difficult to solve because we have had or have a public law that has developed into what some would call a blackout law. It is just more difficult to have access to the correspondences that are being made in connection with the administration. In the Liberal Alliance, you opposed the amendments to the Public Service Act, from the Public Service Act to the Blackout Act. New citizens are opposed. There are a number of parties against, but two of the parties, which are also the two bourgeois parties that courteous to the Prime Minister's office, are too open, but nevertheless have not really managed to press when the agreement that is now in place should be amended. Will the Liberal Alliance help, if there is a bourgeois majority, to press so that the Left and Conservatives come out of the holes and ensure that we have more openness in our governance?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174043	Now we are moving into a dangerous area, because it is about my memory, but if it reaches about, then I believe that Conservatives have opened up to change the public law. It may well be that I remember the wrong thing, and in that case it is primarily the Left and the Social Democrats that are the problem and that problem solves itself. They will not have 90 seats after the next elections; I find that difficult to imagine. And when I think about whether there are any advantages in the fact that the Left has bled so much in the measurements since the last election, I can come up with two. One is that there was probably no majority after a new election to continue this cover-up. The second is, of course, that there must also be some dripping to the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174117	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174119	It is true that Conservatives resigned before the last elections, that they would have liked to have changed the three paragraphs, which are also highly criticised, but Conservatives have not resigned from the conciliation, so it is the case today that Conservatives, the Left and the Social Democrats are sitting negotiating, and these negotiations are dragging on. Nothing's really gonna happen. And I, under both Conservatives and the Left, have a lot of mandates, especially if they come from red parties, but it is only annoying if it is the case that we get a bourgeois majority, that we then do not have more openness in the legislation or in the administration. So I hope that the Liberal Alliance will also be involved in arm-laying there and that this black belt that the rapporteur has in what?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174159	I hope I'm not going to use that, but I'm sure I won't, if it is. I said quite clearly in connection with our national meeting that there are three areas that are very important for the Liberal Alliance when and if we get a blue majority. One is that the tax should be lowered to the top and to the bottom. The second is that the public sector must be freer. And the third is that legal certainty must be improved on a number of points; that could be one of them. And these are three areas where we are the ultimate in terms of making concessions. What concessions they are, we will probably find out in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174225	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Malte Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174229	Thank you very much. We have been able to uncover this in the past, and we have been doing so for years now that the Liberal Alliance wants a smaller public sector. May I ask the rapporteur: is there a target for how small it can be? So how much less should there be for the public sector, for our children in schools, day care, care for the weakest, public roads, etc.? Is there a goal for how far we can go down?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174257	Yes, it is in our 2035 plan that we want public consumption to be reduced by 10%. However, we recognise that there is a demographic feature, so we have set aside money for that, and that must then be deducted from or added to the other end. But 10%. is the target. This is also what the Productivity Commission said they said that if the municipalities can operate as efficiently as the most efficient municipality in Denmark, 10% can be saved without reducing quality. So it is not the case that the Liberal Alliance wants a utopia that exists in the United States. No, it exists, as far as I remember, in Vejle Municipality, which is the most effective. And it is not the case that people are dying on the streets or that there are no educators or nurses in Vejle. So it can be done to drive things smarter and better, and anyone who has run a business doesn't know that I have, but anyone who has run a business knows that things can be done better. But it is as if when it comes to the public sector, nothing can be done better unless parts of the core task are slaughtered. That's amazing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174351	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174353	Perhaps that is because it is what some of us have experienced for many years in municipal councils and elsewhere that reality is not as rosy as the rapporteur here says, and that everything is not as it is in Vejle, with the quite excellent demographic and other prerequisites that we are dealing with exactly there. May I ask the rapporteur: is there anywhere in the public sector on which the Liberal Alliance today can guarantee that they do not want to make savings and cuts or efficiency improvements if it is for the Liberal Alliance, and can Mr. Alex Vanopslagh might mention some of the welfare areas that the Liberal Alliance wants to free?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174434	Yes, the Danish defence, for example. Now I don't know if it should specifically be nuclear welfare, but we don't want to cut back on the Danish defenses that we want to increase the cost to 2%, also preferably before 2033. But otherwise we believe that in the public sector we can make things better and cheaper, and I really believe that we all agree on that in here at heart. We have always agreed with each other that it is possible to debureaucratize. Surely it cannot be the case that the Danish Nursing Council estimates that 4 million hours are spent a year together on unnecessary documentation. Well, then there's a huge savings potential. It cannot be said that bureaucracy has increased for educators and for sosus, and that then there is no saving potential. Of course there is. After all, it cannot be said that we have employed journalists and academics in the municipalities in the last ten years without the potential for savings. Of course there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174517	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Green Group and we are breaking for dinner after this rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174541	Another year has passed, another year has been wasted, and this is another year when the Government's Climate Council is failing the government's climate action. We are therefore drawing closer to the consequences of man-made climate change because we do not act in time and with concrete and existing solutions. During this parliamentary period there were among other things: I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr., and what do you think's gonna happen? Yes, then you create better conditions for the cars, and then people drive more cars, and we're going the opposite way. We're gonna drive less by car. Fewer cars on the roads, more, better and cheaper public transport, more co-driving and other green solutions are the way forward. An agricultural agreement has also been concluded, and no, not a climate agreement for agriculture, but an agricultural agreement. Here was one of the most important areas for us in the Free Greens to get a transition from animal production to an area which the government and the parties to the agreement were completely freed from the agreement. We need to create an agriculture that relies on more plant-based production, because the climate suffers from our extreme meat production. Species are in decline, many are dying out, nature lacks space. Nature suffers from our meat production. Agriculture occupies far too much space, not for human food production, but for animal feed, which we must eat, and it is not only in Denmark, but also in South America, where soy production for our livestock helps to eradicate the rainforest. The government has also finally come up with a bid for a CO2 Folketing was promised a high and uniform tax of the kind. Neither was the government able to swing up to this challenge. Big CO 2 2 Mette Frederiksen said well enough a few months ago that she is now green before she is red, but she forgot to say that she is blue before she is green. In the Free Greens, we are often told by colleagues that we are angry and criticize too much, and perhaps you are thinking that now too, so let me now also pay tribute to the government for the massive agreement on the development of offshore winds in the North Sea. That is the level of ambition that Denmark's entire climate policy should have, and that is the level of ambition that we in the Free Greens are fighting for. But it is also important that when we make such big agreements, we think holistic, because now the wind turbine adventure must not result in us destroying the marine environment. Nor must this result in us, as we did with Lynetteholmen and the Egholms connection, compromising democracy and removing the right to appeal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174900	Can I not ask for a little more calm in the Chamber while there is a rapporteur's speech? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523174902	If there's one thing that makes me get optimism back in relation to the climate crisis, it's the Covid pandemic. Turns out, if we want to, we can do it. We can make big decisions and spend huge sums of money and change our society in a short time when most Danes are also willing to do so if necessary. However, the password will be the password, because I have serious doubts as to whether the government will. Will the government really make the green transition and make the hard decisions? Covid also made some challenges in our society more visible. Before covid, we knew that there were challenges in our healthcare system, but covid made them clear. We watched our health professionals fight a certain body part out of their pants to provide patients with the necessary care, which they do every day, but under covid they had to run even stronger. Health staff showed why they have a key function in a rich society like ours. For this reason alone, the government should look at unequal pay, which keeps nurses and other women's domination professions at the bottom of the wage ladder in the public sector. I hope that in the near future we will have to put the civil service reform to death. But the pandemic also made it clear that we have massive challenges with our mental health in Denmark, namely loneliness, depression and anxiety, especially in young people. It is a problem we have known for a long time, but as the state of health care is, the covid-19 made it very clear. I think we owe it to young people to take their problems seriously. As if a worldwide pandemic were not enough, war has also erupted in Europe. Russia has brutally attacked Ukraine and the war is now under way in the fourth month. Free Greens as the only party did not want to arm civilian Ukrainians, and together with the Enhedslisten, we have said no to arms in NATO: a non-popular resolution in a Parliament where logic acts as if gunpowder and bullets create peace. The war in Ukraine, like the pandemic, has made clear some challenges in our society, first and foremost an empathy crisis. A large part of the Folketing has agreed to show a very geographically determined empathy towards the Ukrainian refugees, who, unlike refugees from Afghanistan and Syria, must be treated well. As my colleague Mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party said: as hard and dismissive as we want to be to migrants from Africa, our arms must be as open to Ukrainians. That is how far we have come, with a special law, to divide refugees into an "A" and a "B" team. We simply cannot be familiar with this. A refugee is a refugee and all refugees must be treated well. This is not because discrimination has shown its face for the first time just looking at the ethnicity requirement in relation to exposed residential areas. It's just rare that it's been as pronounced and clear as it was here. This is a development that we in the Free Greens have set out to reverse. No more discrimination and racism, whether in Christiansborg, in the police or in society in general, and into diversity and multiculture, where there is room for everyone and everyone can thrive. That is why we are also very much looking forward to the government presenting its proposal for an anti-racist action plan. We are happy to give input to this, even though we are not part of the negotiations. The unequal treatment of refugees is not foreign to a large group of Danes. They were born and raised in Denmark, but they have to go through long and difficult processes in order to hope to get the red beet passport at all. How can people born in Denmark not be Danes? And what are they? I'll ask the PM. We should get to the press. automatically give all children born in Denmark citizenship. For example, when you do not have citizenship, you do not get the opportunity to vote for a parliamentary election, and it must be the most exclusive feeling to be born in a country, but not automatically have participation in any of the most important things we have, namely elections to the Folketing. In the Free Greens we call it democratic apartheid when we allow large groups of people to pay taxes but not to be full members of democracy. We call it democratic inequality because we believe economic inequality and democratic inequality are equally destructive to people. And precisely the economic inequality has grown under this government, as we have heard several times today. We need to distribute our wealth better between us. We need to redistribute money from the richest to the poorest. Whether it is economic or democratic inequality, there are cracks in our society and it is poison to the community. We need to solve the great challenges of our time and help each other. Thank you for the floor. On behalf of the Green Group, I should just like to read out our adoption text: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has wasted another year in order to secure the necessary climate action and mitigate the climate disaster that threatens life on the planet. The Danish Parliament notes that the government is failing the reduction targets laid down in the Climate Act, which should be supplemented by a Climate Act 2.0, which takes responsibility for Denmark's actual emissions. The Danish Parliament notes that the government is acting without due diligence and is thus in the process of a generational failure that can create an uninhabitable and insecure globe with incalculable consequences. The Danish Parliament also notes that another year is wasted in combating state racism which has gained ground in Denmark. There is a need for a consistent fight with the inhumane policy that divides refugees into a team A and a team B by adopting a special law. All discriminatory policies should be rolled back so that Denmark can once again become a humanist pioneering country. • V 95).
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175538	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175542	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for her speech. After all, I have great respect for the rapporteur's perseverance, and I have also tried to dive a little into your party programme and have taken a little interest in your economic policy, which should be feminist and democratic in the future. You write something about the fact that if it were the case that all the caring work done by women was paid for cooking, child care and various other things, it would amount to 10.8 thousand billion. dollars. So I cannot help asking: why do we need to put sums on the kind of care that we all give to each other? What is the origin of the need for this kind of set-aside?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175651	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175651-2	Thank you. When we calculate our gross domestic product, do we take it as a sign of how the country is progressing or is it going back? And in that gross domestic product we do not really include the values that actually tell us what it's like to be a human child, an adult or an old person in our country. Therefore, it is interesting to get a calculation that shows what real values we have, and not just those that can only be measured in the economy that is about plus and minus.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175724	Sir. Per Larsen for a further brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175725	Thank you. But can the rapporteur not go a little further on what your economic policy in general is about? After all, I heard the rapporteur mention various things, such as: that public transport should be cheaper and something like that. How does the rapporteur think it should be financed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175743-2	There we could then return to our economic position. We want a more equal society, so you can, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr., which starts at a tax of 1%. and then go progressively upwards. This could help to finance a large part of e.g. public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523175810	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The text of the adoption that we have received here will be included in the further negotiations. And then I'm gonna have to sir. Per Larsen about not using direct indictment. We are now postponing the meeting and taking a break for dinner for an hour. We'll meet again at 2:00. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523190004	The meeting is open. As next in the rapporteur's line here after the midday break, it is Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523190017	Thank you, sir. President. In Denmark, we have one of the world's most ambitious climate laws with a goal of saving 70%. of our CO2 It is a target that is noticed around the world. I have heard the Minister for Climate Affairs tell several times about how other countries' politicians flock around him at international meetings to hear about Denmark's climate policy. Therefore, it may also be difficult to understand why, when he comes home to Christiansborg, the minister is met by young climate activists such as those who held a demonstration in front of the steps to Christiansborg this morning. It may also be difficult to understand why the alternative, the Climate Council, the Climate Citizen thing and the green organisations in Denmark criticise the government and the support parties for not doing enough. Is it because we're just ungrateful? No, the criticism is based on many things, such as: that each Dane emits approx. 17 t CO2 is the same thing as 17 Indians. Are we, then, the world leader in climate change, or are we, for example, the world leader in climate change? Indians? You can call us leader if you reduce 70%. of a huge overuse down to a slightly less huge overuse? Another thing is that we have set ourselves a reduction target that is not enough, while at the same time we are nervous that we will not achieve it. The goal of reaching a CO2 in Denmark by 2030 is not ambitious enough if we in Denmark are to take our share of responsibility for ensuring that the temperature worldwide does not rise by more than 1.5 degrees. This made sense in 2019, but in recent years reports have come after reports from the UN, and the latest says that the challenges are greater than we thought and that time is scarcer. On 18 May 2022, the United Nations Meteorological Institute came with its provisional status for 2021. There are four so-called key indicators which, according to the report, set a new record: 1) The concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is increasing; 2) the global average temperature is rising; 3) the sea temperature is setting a record; and 4) the sea acidification is increasing, which means that the sea is getting more difficult to absorb CO2 of what we produce. All of this is the facts of the United Nations meteorological organization. They must be compared with an assessment by the UN Climate Panel that came earlier this year, namely that the curve over CO2 is why more and more scientists are questioning whether the 70-percent objective is good enough. For example: writes pro-rector and professor of climate change from the University of Southern Denmark, Sebastian Mernild, that we need to get up to a CO2 by 2030 if Denmark is to live up to its share, and we need to stop CO2 I think it would suit the government to point out that the climate situation has got worse than we thought it was when we made the 70-percent objective, and at least hear the agreement parties whether there is a reason for an upward adjustment. But we do not hear a word about this. And when you do not want to adjust your goals upwards when the challenges are growing, you are not leading climate ambitions, either nationally or globally. The next big question is whether we will reach the target at least with the 70-percent target. In this context, the Prime Minister praised his government in his speech this morning because it has achieved two thirds of its target in relation to the 70-percent objective. It would only suit the Prime Minister to say that it is the very lowest fruits that have been picked and that the last three-quarters of the fruits are very, very high and completely out on the thin branches, except for the ripe fruits, which could make a huge difference, but which the government and the support parties do not have the courage to pick. The most mature fruits are, of course, to limit the meat production of agriculture, which is one of the biggest climate sinners. In the Netherlands, programmes are being prepared to phase out and phase out meat production and help farmers to convert production or transfer to other industries. In Denmark, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, who also spoke SF, Radical and even Enhedslisten, has just made an agreement to reduce CO2 Are you that leading? We do not think so in the alternative. One of the major challenges is that when you talk climate policy, you also talk biodiversity or wild nature. The biodiversity policy has long been seen as the little brother of climate policy. I think that will change in the years to come. In Denmark we have been down to below 1%. Wild and untouched nature back. Now, when we set up 15 national parks, we are roughly 2 per cent. When I don't spend much time partying over it, it's because in the alternative, we're supposed to go up to 20-30 per cent. Wild and untouched nature in Denmark and, at least, must live up to the EU's target of 10%. wild and untouched nature and 30%. protected nature. That is why agriculture cannot set itself at 60%. of Denmark's area when there is room for e.g. cities and infrastructure and much more. In addition to blocking wild nature, agriculture is also responsible for contamination with both poison and nutrients that kill birds and insects and pollute fjords and seas with nutrients that regularly destroy life throughout fjords and marine areas by creating oxygen loss. And, as I said, life is also a nightmare for many farm animals. But we are not just eating on the climate and on the scarce resources of the earth; in fact, in the alternative, we believe that we are also eating on our own human resources. In his speech this morning, the Prime Minister rejoiced that growth in Denmark has not been as high as it is today since Poul Nyrup Rasmussen's government was in power. She just forgot to talk about how we really are doing in our rich welfare community. In the alternative, we look at society, but it is a society with many more nuances and challenges than what I see the Prime Minister describe. There is no balance on the social bottom line of society. Poor and sick Danes feel a great lack of authority, a lack of respect and a great lack of legal certainty. And although there are, of course, many who have good jobs and better conditions and for whom things are better, there is a massive distrust across society. If we look at the well-being of young people, according to a survey in which the Danish Health Authority has participated, it is 52 per cent. of Danish women between 16 and 24 years of age who have a high stress level. And every fifth woman of the same age has been very depressed, depressed, or unhappy in the last 14 days. In the alternative, we are looking at an overheated competitive society that not only consumes climate and nature and the scarce resources of the planet, but also consumes our human capital to an ever greater extent. The number of young women who are unhappy, depressed or depressed has more than doubled since 2008. And yes, we have a welfare society where there have never been more people in employment and where there has been no higher growth since Poul Nyrup Rasmussen. But how are we doing in this amazing society? How high must the price be for us still to get richer and richer? How rich will we really be? Are there things that we fail in the pursuit of material consumption? What about our children and our friends and nature and art and culture and sport and love? We think that growth has become a driver that governs our lives from kindergarten and primary school and beyond through education and then into the labour market. We are going to be such small production units to ensure the welfare society's growth and increased welfare, but I think that the meaning of it all for many people disappears somewhere. The neoliberal growth ideology that the government professes to mean at least a massive distrust in society, and a proposal that might give oxygen to some of the 52%. For example, women who have too high a level of stress could be reducing working hours in society to, for example: The elimination half-life is approximately 30 hours. Instead, the government raises the retirement age so that people who are already stressed at 22 years of age need to look forward to living and working even longer. It is sometimes wondered whether our highly productive lowlife society is at all suitable for people living in it. But of course it does; there are also many good things in it. Even though many people are disillusioned and live in climate anxiety, there is also hope. It gives hope that so many, not least young people, eat more and more plant-based. Throughout the country, young people make changes on the shelves of our refrigerators and cause many Danish families to experiment with plant-based food. It gives hope that the second part of the construction of Lynetteholm is put on a one-year break. And I will say to the parties behind the agreement on Lynetteholm: Time is running out on you. The time has also run from making bridges and motorways that lead directly into the past. So I would encourage you to drop Lynetteholm and the Egholm connection and the extension of Aarhus Harbour and Kattegat connection in the same time • like to join with the asphalt part of the infrastructure agreement. It also gives hope that Denmark has got a climate bourgeoisie thing. I have enjoyed coming to more of their presentations and they have challenged us politicians to become much more ambitious in terms of climate. I think we should give the Climate Citizen thing even more confidence and a kind of real political mandate that means that they cannot just make recommendations, but that we ensure that their ideas are better realised. The idea comes from the Extinction Rebellion and the Green Youth Movement. And I know it's a political experiment, but why not give ordinary Danes who have spent so long getting involved in the climate issue an even stronger mandate for climate reasons. It also gives hope that we establish energy islands in the North Sea, which create the world's largest green outlet and make green Danish power a world brand. Planning the new marine natural parks gives hope. And there are also many other things that give hope, but I'm running out of time. But I certainly hope that the government understands why it is being greeted with desperate shouts and hopes from climate activists and politicians when it comes home after sunshine in international recognition of Denmark's climate policy. Denmark's climate policy at least shines on a rather cheap background, so I would encourage the government and climate minister to come out of the bubble and update, streamline and target Denmark's climate policy and biodiversity efforts. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191024	Thank you very much. The first brief remark is to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191028	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech... passionate as always. Neoliberal growth economy is said in one sentence; 3-4 minutes later the rapporteur stands and praises a huge wind turbine adventure along the west coast of Jutland. One of the things I find interesting about the alternative is that the alternative has moved from actually having faith in the growth of the green adventure and more and more into a rather, I would say, socialist agenda. So what I am really just interested in is what kind of growth the rapporteur is dealing with here. What is growth at all for the alternative if it is not the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191118	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191118-2	It's the green switch. We're not socialists. We do not object to people earning a great deal of money as long as they do not destroy the climate, nature, the environment and other people's ability to have a good life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191137	Here you go, asker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191139	Yes, because is it not the case that when we throw in our investments and move our jobs from perhaps some older technologies to new technologies, we are also growing? Then our bnp grows, and it's probably somewhere okay, I guess, for the alternative. Because I actually hear that there are a number of opposing energies here, too, about the fact that we should not really work so much, for example. So I still have some doubts about where the alternative is at all in relation to this growth agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191216	Well, we are where growth becomes black when it destroys the climate, nature, the environment and other people's ability to live good lives. It is acting, for example. If growth creates a great deal of inequality, too. When growth creates great inequality, so that some get very big benefits and, on the other hand, there are a lot of people who have to be really poor, then the alternative is no longer interested in it either. So we acknowledge that people do business. I'm a businessman myself. But there are certain limits that are indisputable, and every time they are violated, we do not recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191251	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191254	Thank you. Thanks for a nice speech. Did I hear the rapporteur say that the alternative is not socialists? Okay, so I've heard enough today, I was gonna say. Well, I wanted to ask you something else. Indeed, I looked at the alternative's proposal to phase out lamb and beef into public canteens and a motion for a resolution which was on here some time ago. This made me think a little more fundamentally about things, because I think it speaks in a rather dull way, as unfortunately we also see from the government, namely that the Danes must meet with an unusual urge for coercion by politicians. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur for the alternative, where does the limit really go to what the alternative in general will be when it comes to regulating the behaviour of the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191351	Well, the Danes are good at eating green. They are good at a lot of things in the sustainable transition. There are some places where we need to step in and regulate the major structures, for example. climate tax. It could also be this thing about not offering beef and lamb in the state canteens, because I think it's 3-4 per cent. of the meat that is served there, beef or lamb. On the other hand, I do not remember the exact figure, but 30-40 per cent. of all CO2 so I do not mind that we go in and regulate when it is such that it is extremely effective and when it is something that the people themselves do not intend to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191434	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191436	But could the rapporteur not try to unfold a little more, how far the alternative is actually willing to go, to make me and the Chamber and the Danes more aware of how much one wants to regulate the behaviour of the Danes and, not least, whether the alternative believes that the way of volunteering, possibly also through incentives, might be a better way of achieving the objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191500-2	Always. So, the voluntary path is always best, and the alternative is a freedom-loving party, probably the most freedom-loving party on the centre-left axis, if you can call it that. Where our limit will go and where I would not go in to regulate, there are thousands of examples. It is difficult to give a particular example, but for example. We believe that as far as families with children are concerned, the money should follow the child. Then let the money follow the child, and let the parents see for themselves how they will use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191537	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191540	Thank you. I was aware that the rapporteur said that nature and the environment are small-brothers to the climate area. I was a little surprised because I think I have many examples of environmental and natural considerations weighing significantly higher than the climate area. You can, for example. see that we in Denmark pay significantly higher subsidies for afforestation, biodiversity forest or deciduous forest than we do for coniferous forest, which is climate forest, regardless of the fact that it means that you plant deciduous forest on sandy soil, where you might want to plant climate forest. There are also considerations in relation to solar cells and wind turbine locations, etc., where it is always the environment and nature that wins over the climate. So I would like to ask the rapporteur to say a little more about the fact that nature and the environment are always small-brothers to the climate. Are there any specific areas in which the rapporteur wishes to change that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191642	I have just come from the Hirtshals nature meeting, and there was actually a fairly large part of the agenda that the biodiversity people, the Fjällräven people, if I may call them that, would like biodiversity policy to come up to the level of climate policy. So that's something the professionals are talking about. The rapporteur can find examples where nature is given priority over the environment, but I think that if we look at the money spent on climate or environment, although we have, thank goodness, spent almost a small billion on natural parks, then I think we will see that something more is being spent on reducing CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191721	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191723	It is interesting that the professionals are equal to those who go with Fjällräven. There are many things that come out in this debate. Should we then pick up on it for bans on beef and lamb in public kitchens? In other words, has the rapporteur examined whether it is even possible, in the field of competition law in Europe, to go in and take out some individual products and say that we are regulating them there to be banned in public kitchens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191756	Let me just say that with the Fjällräven people this was such a loving allusion to many of the people who actually care and deal very much with nature. And then I must confess honestly that I forgot the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191813	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191816	I would like to thank the alternative rapporteur for his speech here, in which the rapporteur also referred to stress. And if there is one in this Parliament where I could understand if he or she could feel stressed sometimes, it is the rapporteur who has a lot to do. One of the proposals we have made by the Conservatives, which we have actually funded in our financial legislation, is to change the taxation of stress treatment. Today it is the case that if you get stress treatment from your employer, it is only tax-free for the employee if the one and only is related to the work. And for most people who go down with stress, it's a combination of a little bit of everything. It's the work, it's the privacy. There may be many factors that play a role and that often contribute to ending up with the flag. I just want to know if this could be something the alternative might want to cooperate on or could see itself in, so that this proposal could help some more to actually deal with the stress they might face.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191917	Well, it's very simple: we really, really want to do that. I think that is a good proposal from the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191924	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191925	How wonderful it was, because then I can use my question No. I would also like to ask you something very close to my heart, namely this high school agreement on the compulsory distribution of high school pupils, which has also filled a great deal in today's debate. After all, the rapporteur said that there was the most freedom-loving party in this House, and so I would like to ask what the alternative is today about this agreement. Is there a lot of freedom-loving elements in this deal where it's Mom's and Dad's income that determines where you can be admitted to a high school?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191955	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523191956	Well, there we have it that if we can contribute to greater distribution in high schools, so that there is greater diversity also socially, then we will always do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192011	The next brief remark is to Mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192012	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for his speech. Now it is actually the case that a great deal of sheep and lambs are raised in this country and also a great deal of cattle. What does the rapporteur think should happen to the meat that will be in surplus there? What is the rapporteur thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192035	I don't know if there's gonna be a surplus of meat. I believe that production can be reduced if demand is dampened. I'd do that. And then I regret to the rapporteur of the Left that I forgot the question earlier. But it is about whether the EU allows meat and lamb to be taken out. As far as I understand, the European Union is doing so. That, for example. (ii) to make a distinction between organic and ordinary vegetables. But as far as I understand, I'm gonna check it out, you can do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192105	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192106	Thank you. I will not say whether I can use the answer, but I am thinking of biodiversity. In fact, the sheep and cattle do good for biodiversity. There are plenty of insects that feed on their leftovers, and we have some grass plains that need to be grazed, so that you can also keep having the same plant growth and such things. Is the rapporteur not worried that biodiversity will be seriously affected if sheepmeat, lamb and beef are phased out in the canteens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192141	After all, you could have sheep grazing too much for roses without having to eat the sheep afterwards. So we would like to maintain some of the useful things that the rapporteur rightly mentions. We are also putting large grassers into the national parks, fortunately together with the Conservative People's Party, and they are also animals which do not have meat production as their purpose, but which we have, in order for them to graze and create biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192207	As the next brief remark is to a member of the Conservative People's Party who identifies himself as Mr. Marcus Knuth, but who is not present in the Chamber, is Mr. Knuth. Rasmus Jarlov instead? It is very, very important for the system that you enter from your own place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192223	Excuse me, Chairman. We're very similar, sir. Marcus Knuth and I. I have, however, broken my foot at the moment, unlike Mr. Marcus Knuth. That's why I'm not sitting exactly the way I'm supposed to. I understand that the alternative identifies itself as a very freedom-loving party, the most freedom-loving party on the left in the Parliamentary Chamber. And I am glad that the rapporteur did not say in the Folketing because he knows that there are other parties on the right who care more about freedom than the alternative. But the high school agreement • How does it give citizens more freedom, that you now have less free choice and that you are placed in high schools that you do not want to go to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192306	There is this issue of freedom, which is incredibly difficult to discuss. Because we all believe that there must be a great deal of freedom, but we all also have limits on how large it should be and how much freedom we want to give people. The priority here is for high schools to be mixed, for colleges to be diverse and for everyone to have the chance to go there. This is more important in this case than our concept of freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192339	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192340	But is it really a particularly good account when you look at how much each high school student can contribute? After all, it must be quite limited how much one can contribute to a more sensible composition of secondary schools and residential areas and society at all. In relation to the cost to each high school student of having his or her high school history destroyed, is it really a reasonable calculation that some young people, relatively randomly, have their schooling destroyed in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192412	Things are never black and white, and sometimes we should be better at saying if we're 40-60 for something or 70-30 or 65-35. It is clear that this is always the case. So if I were to tell you what we were in the alternative here and what's behind it, I'd say 60%. for and 40%. against.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192430	There are no more brief comments. We would like to thank the rapporteur of the alternative. One has been entered now. Excuse me, there is just one brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192440	Thank you. Actually, this is also the high school deal I'm gonna follow up on. 'Cause I think sir... Torsten Gejl stands here and says 60%. for and 40%. against. Well, then, what is it about the agreement that appeals to Mr. Torsten Gejl and Mr. Torsten Gejl's party?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192500	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192501	Well, what I am saying is the possibility of creating greater diversity in high schools and the possibility of more people gaining access to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192509	So more diversity in high school then you can resort to coercion, then you can dampen freedom, then you can use such violent methods as using our young people for distribution in order to create more diversity. Thanks for the coffee, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192530	You're welcome, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192537	The next speaker is Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen from the Moderates.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523192602	Thank you. Well, this is the parliament's last debate before the parliamentary elections, which is nearing its end. The next time we meet for the final debate in due course against the Constitutional Day, there have been elections, and then Denmark has a new government; I think I can say that with certainty. That's the way it's gonna be. That's the way it's gonna be. And when I say that, it is because one of the parties on the parliamentary basis of the government has clearly said that it will not support a socialist one-party government after the elections. And if it is up to believers, and I have no reason to believe otherwise than it does, then it can be seen from the basement that the Prime Minister has made his final final speech earlier today on behalf of a socialist one-party government at least. So, what was it like? Yeah, I thought it was good. I thought it was a good speech from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister turned his eyes outwards to a start. I actually thought it was liberating and put Denmark into perspective, stressed our responsibility as a small rich, happy nation. Our responsibilities are morally, idealistic, but also in pure self-interest to engage, take responsibility, remove our reservations and fully and fully engage in European defence policy cooperation. I thought that was charitable, and I could not agree more with that. If there were a small snare of an old polemician in me yet, I would of course point to the contrast in relation to the previous firm statement by the same Prime Minister that the reservations are the very basis of Danish European politics. And I cannot insist on the right to be wiser myself if I do not grant others the same right. So it was good I actually thought. Lately, I have taken care to share many of the Prime Minister's assessments and analyses that more money and standards cannot only raise the welfare of our children, of our young people, of our sick and vulnerable. Money has not stopped playing a role, but they cannot do so alone. The Prime Minister's statements in the New Year's speech and elsewhere about freeing up professionalism, entrusting our public sector staff with some more responsibility, allowing them to dare to make decisions that we may have historically politicised and set out in detail. The Prime Minister's assessment of the crisis management under Corona, where the Prime Minister said and now I quote, was made possible by the fact that we stood on a foundation of a solid, sustainable Danish economy created through decades of reforms. These are some right assessments, and they are some right analyses and from time to time I will then take care to see that I find it a little bit more difficult with the actions. And it is not only the Prime Minister's responsibility. If you just look at this in recent months in Danish politics, the labour market is boiling over, but a few thousand kroner separates one block from the other from agreeing to relax the conditions for foreign labour so that our companies can get what they crave wildly, namely more skilled foreign employees. That is an example. Another example is the Nina Schmidt report. The government is ordering an initiative for a modern su reform, but 10 minutes after it has landed in public, it is being shot down by one of the government's own ministers. That's one thing. But the blue parties, and I know that otherwise historically, have fought for reform, because it is simply too stupid to keep wise foreign heads away from Denmark on the one hand, but that on the other hand it is also unsustainablely unconscious to send taxpayers' money after them if they return home quickly, observing something near full radio silence. Nobody says anything. There are elections in sight, and there is no reason to disturb the Danes with difficult considerations apparently. And last Friday we got what the Prime Minister referred to in his speech here today as a health reform with some fine intentions, but with very little action which, in the case of people who deal with the theme of everyday life, creates faith that we are really going to get to grips with any of them. On the one hand, the money is small, and on the other hand, there is no readiness to cut away what could be called the rock wool layers in our health sector. It's very similar to something you've seen three years ago. They call things something else; they are not health centres, they are near hospitals; they are not health communities, they are health clusters. But all the teeth are ripped out of it. In other words, where you really need powerful steering tools that ensure that the bermuda triangle is shed light between the doctor, the municipality, the patient and the hospital, that is the most word. I'm left with such a feeling that something scratches on the surface... I can't say that I'm free from it... and I think that's a challenge. I do not know if it is something coronapsychology that still hangs in us, because under corona we could here at Christiansborg really act; that is, we were almost able to eliminate all the effects of corona. There was no work to go on, but it didn't matter because we could pay people anyway. We made massive aid packages. And I don't know if it's in us so much that we now have such faith in the inflation debate that we can make everything go away politically at Christiansborg. So we spend a lot of time on it and perhaps less time on the things where we could really make a difference. The Prime Minister also said that there is another tale about a country, a people who can so much, perhaps more than they think, and I agree with that. We can do more than we think. We can as a nation, but I think we can do the same here in the Folketing. But it takes courage to change, which, frankly, I have to say, sometimes feels a little absent. Everyone agrees, and I myself am in the club and have said for generations almost that we need less bureaucracy, we need more professional freedom; but we cannot talk red tape away. We cannot talk about releasing the professional freedom of our educators, our nurses, our teachers, our doctors and all the other public servants who are thirsting for more elbow space. I think that we need to look more fundamentally at the way we have organised ourselves, and when you listen to it, the commandments are: freedom, competition, private solutions on the one hand, with the blues and more money, higher standards on the other hand with the reds. Perhaps you should mix the colors or, at least, the solutions... and I actually think that's within reach if you took the time and everything wasn't on speed. Think of what could happen if we drove our civic welfare institutions as if they were private without making them private, i.e. under overall political control, but with much more autonomy and freedom for management and employees; so that you could put full focus on the citizens, so that you were free to constantly look over your shoulder and focus on the administration or the minister or journalists. Imagine if we dare let the bourgeois institutions reward their employees for solving the core task rather than now, as the road to better individual conditions goes by moving away from the pupil, away from the patient, away from the elderly. That's the way forward. If you as a nurse ask for more in salary, you are told: No, but you can get some more education, and then you can subsequently take on some coordinating function, i.e. less patient contact, higher pay. Imagine if the hospital departments could cut through and give those of our nurses who are prepared to work full-time, a significant salary boost rather than being tied on their hands and feet and spending the salary budget on temporary workers instead. That would require a change in the public sector; it would require administrative reform or institutional reform or whatever words are now used, and it should be within the reach of the attainable, yes, it should be within reach. And it doesn't run off in a wildly ideological way, but it's still so far from what we're discussing and cooperating on at the moment. I think there is a need for a little more calm. And I know without being indiscreet that I am not the only one who walks around in this Chamber and thinks: how would it be nice if, in one way or another, we could establish a political cooperation that would allow us to go deeper down? And I know that when I forgive my naivety about government formation across the middle, there are many who say that we are already working broadly. Historically, I also remember the percentages of the number of legislative proposals adopted by a broad majority, but it does not help to work broadly if nothing is done. It is in this light that I am giving my first speech as a moderate one, and I hope that when we meet for the next final debate, we can speak with full force about the Moderates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523193632	Thank you to the Moderates' rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523193647	Thank you very much. I can't believe I had to experience that it was the North Atlantic mandates that went on right after a former prime minister. The mandates here in the Folketing have really been shaken over this period. In the coming year, we are going to elections, and I have already announced that I will run again. I think that there are many issues that we are doing well, but which I also think are important to complete. One of the major tasks is a future defence settlement, where 7 billion will have to be distributed in the short run. kr. to strengthen the defense. And from the next defence agreement, 80-100 billion will have to be distributed. kr. for the next 10 years. The Arctic and the Baltic Sea are high on the wish list of many of the conciliation parties, and it is important to say that we in Greenland want low-voltage and we want to sit at the table on the basis of the principle: nothing about us without us. Naalakkersuisut has recently entered into an agreement with the government on the last part of the Arctic Capacity Package, and I am pleased about that. That is why a large number of good results have been achieved this year. A new emergency training is to be established in Kangerlussuaq. It has been a great wish of the IA. We know that the Children's Act is on its way, the consent law is on its way into Greenland, and Arctic parliamentarians will meet in Nuuk later this year to fight for the climate, the rights of indigenous peoples and the self-sustaining economy. In Denmark we also know that there are many tasks. A large proportion of Greenlandic children are placed outside the home, which is why I welcome new pools to strengthen psychology and drug treatment in Greenlandic, while at the same time helping to ensure that there is a professional interpretation. All this can help ensure that Greenlanders in Denmark benefit more from these new pools. Tomorrow there will be a report from VIVE which points to the placements of Greenlandic children. One of the things we want to point out is that we need to adapt this culture that we do when we have children, so that Greenlandic culture and language are also taken into account. In the Folketing we are also fighting to reduce the number of homeless Greenlanders in Denmark. So there are many, many good things and many good results to rejoice about, and I know that it makes a significant difference that we are here and that we are helping to do a great deal of what one might call rye bread parliamentarianism here in the Folketing on behalf of Greenland. Last Friday we had the annual Community debate, and here was the debate among other things. on the existence of the Kingdom Community. I think it does. It is a reality, it is a necessity, and for many it is also a good thing. People move from Greenland to Denmark voluntarily and to get better help for themselves or for their children. Do I want Greenland to have more self-determination? Absolutely! It is from a logical point of view that the closer the decisions are made on the citizens, the better it is. At the same time, we also have to recognise at home in Greenland that many of the areas for which we have a responsibility and have taken home many years ago are deeply neglected. The housing stock in Greenland was taken back in 1987 and falls in value by 1 million. kr. during the day during the day. And it is to disclaim a responsibility to leave the state at the expense of the renovation. It is important that we in Greenland take responsibility for the areas we have taken home and that we find some good solutions for it. Health and social services and schools in Greenlandic society are at their knees. I'm experiencing an increasing awareness. In other words, there are many urgent tasks which we need to resolve at home in Greenlandic society and which require our political attention. A responsible economic policy is needed in the coming years at home in Greenland, and we need to recognise that we can and must do better in the areas we have taken home. In the Kingdom community, cooperation is needed. We are in the process of creating a strong, modern and equal kingdom, as the Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech. In many ways, I think that these are some new tones we hear, namely a greater equality, which is the focus of attention. I very much appreciate that the government is also supporting this. And whatever we think of the Kingdom community, we must do what we can together to make our society work for the sake of our citizens. We must remove the border barriers that exist. We need to strengthen security and security at home in Greenland, and we need to ensure that we get even more of the Greenlanders who have chosen to settle in Denmark into work, so that we strengthen cooperation and strengthen equality. On the large scale, we have initiated an important cooperation between Greenland and Denmark to prevent further sexual abuse of children. We would like to take a stand with the record suicides that we have in Greenland. These are some matters which I myself have raised in the Folketing and which I am passionate about. Because this is an important change and it is needed in Greenlandic society, but it takes time, and it requires that we have a sustained focus on these areas. So let's get together in the work clothes... there's enough to get to work. When the speech comes to Greenland, we often have our history in space, in our perception of the present. In many ways, the time has come for a showdown of the past that Greenland and Denmark have together, also as regards the dark and less pleasant chapters of history. We need to see the story in the context there is. Most recently, we've heard of the spiral campaign. We also know that there are experimental children who are legally orphans and there are illegal adoptions. At the same time, it is important that we do away with the skewed human view of us who are from Greenland. We are worth no less than people from Denmark. We are human beings, and we are equal wherever we are born. That is why, on Friday, IA also called on the Prime Minister and the government to make an investigation in relation to the spiral campaign, as I know that Naalaksuisut has also done. There is a need for reconciliation between Greenland and Denmark. There is a need for a Danish commitment, and it could be a truth commission, as several people at home in Greenland have also pointed out. It is gratifying that Inatsisartut at home also takes up the work with a reconciliation commission, and it promises good for a commitment on the part of Greenland. Now all we have to do is look at it from the Danish side. A new media agreement was recently concluded here and, fortunately, the Kingdom community is still part of the media's commitments. They must also report on the Kingdom community. We would like to see more news stories from both Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is also an area that we need to continue to strengthen. IA wants knowledge to be strengthened in general about Greenland in Denmark, and the media agreement is a step in the right direction. I am pleased that at the same time there are some positive tones in terms of strengthening the teaching about Greenland in Danish primary and secondary schools; and it should preferably be about modern Greenland. For we need nuanced, immersive and positive stories about modern Greenland, so that we can puncture prejudices, look forward and strengthen equality. This weekend I helped open an event in Fredericia, Family Day, where a lot of people from Greenland came along. I did so with the chairman of the Folketing. There were up to 900 participants during the day, and I would like to thank the President for participating and showing that priority is given to Greenland. It means really, really much to people there. I spoke to one of the organisers who said: it is striking that many of the funds that we have allocated in the Folketing go to the most socially vulnerable, and that is suddenly what is very much in the media too. How interesting it would be if you made some more of these good arrangements for so many well-functioning Greenlanders, as there are now also in Greenlandic society, so that you can also highlight that picture. Because that is the reality that is now, that is, that there are most well-functioning Greenlanders in Denmark. Last week I was with good colleagues for Future Greenland in Nuuk, a major conference. Thanks for joining us. In many ways, I think there were good examples of how important it is to have this political dialogue, including with those with whom we do not agree. I think it is important that we talk and that we speak directly, because dialogue helps to bridge the gap. This makes us wiser in the attitudes of others and sometimes in our own. About a year ago at the People's Assembly, I received the People's Meeting's Dialogue Prize, which was a great highlight, because I believe very much in democracy, and I believe very much in dialogue. Our role as North Atlantic mandates has changed over the seven years I have been in Parliament. I see that there is greater involvement, and my heart is pleased with that. I would like to thank you for your good cooperation across the blue and red blocs. Thank you for listening, thank you for debating, and thank you for building a bridge with me, for it is so infinitely difficult to build the bridge alone. It is so important that we have the dialogue between Denmark and Greenland, and I would like to thank all those who take the tasks in relation to Greenland seriously. We can only succeed with this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523194659	Thank you. The first brief remark is to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523194703	I would like to thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for an amazing speech and for really giving a view of some of the issues that are currently in Greenland and that we need to be aware of in Denmark. So in reality it is also an enlightening lesson. In addition, I would like to ask about the whole issue of security in Greenland, because right now we are looking into a more unstable world with a greater threat from Russia, and it has to be said that the Arctic is clearly a priority area as such in relation to some future defence negotiations. I know that Greenland wants it to be a low-voltage area, but it is difficult if the rest of the world does not want it to be a low-voltage area. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur what is envisaged if there is to be an increase in the level of threat. What is being looked into by security policy measures that will make sense in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523194804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523194806	Thank you for the question and thank you for the good cooperation. One of the things that you talk a lot about in Greenland is that it can be difficult to maintain this low voltage. I believe that it is very much a matter of strengthening surveillance, especially in the airspace, because we do not really know much about what is going on, but also about water. So, we know that there are submarines on the east coast of Greenland, and it will be super important first and foremost to ensure that we know what is going on in the area around Greenland. Secondly, we must be able to act if something is going on that we do not like, and we have to engage in a dialogue on that. However, another point I would like to highlight is also the need to integrate defence into Greenlandic society. Because I think that if you ask ordinary Greenlanders on the street, they will say that the defence is something that is so much distanced from Greenlandic society and they do not really know anyone who works there. And it has been a matter for me as well as to ensure that there is both this emergency training in Kangerlussuaq, but also that there is some more information about what it really is that the defence goes around and does in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523194909	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523194910	Thank you for the good cooperation that we have on an ongoing basis, both in terms of defence, but also in many other areas, between SF and IA; we are very happy about that in SF. But I will also just promise that when we discuss defence, and we will do that for a long time to come, we will of course also make sure to listen to you in Greenland and make sure that your voice is also heard. I think that will be quite important, because when we discuss this area, it will of course have to happen to government, but there are also Greenlandic MPs who will have to be involved in that process, and we will certainly do our best to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523194949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523194950	Thank you very much, we are very happy about that. I also believe that we can contribute to the solutions and not just to the challenges. And I can act and we can act as a kind of lightning conductor, because we can also say some things in a different way than you can as a Danish parliamentarian, is my experience. So there's a need to have this dialogue, also because Greenland doesn't have a long such military strategic background or tradition; it's going to be super important, especially in Greenlandic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195018	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195020	I listened to the question of the development of the Kingdom Community and very much agree that history is always in space, and I would like to ask what could be involved in developing reconciliation work. Because there is no doubt that there have been some situations in previous history which one has to pass the argument and also in terms of what may be the need for excuses and such things. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether she has some examples of how to develop this reconciliation work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195100	Thank you very much for the question. I really believe that the excuse for the experimental children was a Pandora's box that was opened up, and I have enormous respect for the courage that the Prime Minister displayed at that time. I think that is important to say. But I do not think it is a coincidence that there have been more cases after that, and I think one has to deal with it a little listening to it in particular from the Danish side. There was work going on in 2013, but where Denmark didn't engage, and here I think it's going to be super important that if you want to have that equality, you recognize that Denmark also has to go into this work. One has to have a specific analysis of the spiral campaign in order to find out what is up and down. And there I think it is an important part of the reconciliation work that we have actually done what the government has done and that we continue the good work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195155	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195157	This was just one of the examples I would like to ask, that is, what can be done to remedy a situation which none of us had any idea a very short time ago, that is to say that it was simply called for the setting up of spirals on Greenlandic women and girls without any commitment or anything at all. What can be done in this particular situation to develop it? One thing is to have an investigation and a commission, and what do I know, but what can be done to ensure the reconciliation work that we all want if we want to develop the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195237	In the specific case of the spiral campaign, I have spoken to one of the front fighters who says that they need some help because there are some wounds that have been opened up, and I think you have to listen to that. I know that Naalaksuisut has referred to a hotline, but perhaps there is a need for the Danish side, too, to do what one can, as well as to allow room for that reconciliation in the specific case. But then I think you have to see it a little more generally, and I think you have to be such a little inquisitive, and it is also Greenland that has to point out what we really need. There are a little two tracks you can walk, for example. a UN path and to talk about it here with genocide, which some people have talked about, but my experience is that it is much more about getting a replacement and that it is more about an apology and recognising that what happened was wrong, and we will not do that again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195329	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195331	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very good speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur something that was not just mentioned, and that is something that I see the rapporteur is very concerned about, namely the green and nature. I also follow the rapporteur at SoMe, and there are many beautiful pictures from Greenland. The warming up of the Arctic occurs more than twice as fast as the average global warming, and the snow and ice in the Arctic melts and nature changes. This, of course, has a very great impact on nature, on plants and also on people. And when the primary industry in Greenland is based on the exploitation of nature, i.e. catch and fishing etc., what does the rapporteur see now are the opportunities and challenges in terms of promoting Greenland's own economic development and also making it green, and is the lack of signature of the Paris Agreement an obstacle? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195427	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195428	Thank you very much. The latest figures I heard were that the temperature rises in the Arctic four times as much as in the rest of the world, and that's quite thought-provoking, not only for the Arctic, but also for the rest of the globe too because of the ice sheet that melts. So it just goes faster and faster. IA is advocating our accession to the Paris Agreement. We see this as an important prerequisite for working in relation to the climate. But an agreement has also been reached with the government in relation to having increased hydropower, where you will see whether you might be involved in financing an expansion of hydroelectric power stations in Greenland. So I actually see huge perspectives here. We are also talking about power-to-x, we are also talking about hydrogen, we are also talking about a whole range of other options in relation to green energy, in which I think there are some rather interesting perspectives. So I think that the blue and the green can actually go really nicely hand in hand in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195525	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195526	Thank you. Thank you, too, for being able to deliver on these green ambitions. Then, like home in Denmark, labour is also a major challenge. What is now being done in Greenland to promote training in particular, also in order to be able to deliver precisely on the green ambitions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195545	Thank you very much. I recently saw that there had been a 100-percent increase, I think it was, compared to how many people are trained in Greenland at the university, and I think that is a positive figure. Having said that, I think there is a huge amount of work to be done to ensure that even more people are trained. And one third of all our young people in Greenland are neither in education nor in work. I think that is worrying figures, so more needs to be done in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195613	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195615	Well, thank you for that, and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech, and thank you to the rapporteur for overall good cooperation during the parliamentary year. There is no doubt that, as the rapporteur also says, dialogue is the basis for a very good democratic debate and a very good basis for, for example, the Commonwealth. One of the points made by the rapporteur is that we want to remove border barriers. There is, of course, a question of what are these specific border barriers that the rapporteur sees. Because there's no doubt about the way I feel it at least there's a lot of goodwill when you want to look at these border barriers. So what are the specific obstacles that the rapporteur sees we can work on in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195701	Thank you very much. One of the things we can see is that the list on e.g. transport is getting longer and longer. In Greenland we have not had car vision about the last 20 years, despite the fact that it has also been addressed many, many times. We also know that if you have a Danish driving licence, have settled in Greenland, and if you lose it, or if you are 70 years old, you cannot renew your driving licence. It's not a kingdom community, as I think most people see it. The same also applies to comparing the Greenlandic driving licence with the Danish driving licence. There are many concrete examples. Fortunately, in the Greenland Committee we already have a meeting tomorrow with the Minister for Transport, where we will be discussing some of the obstacles to the border, which are specific to transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195742	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195746	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about security policy and the attitude of the IA on security policy. The reason I would like to ask is that I and the Conservative People's Party have been arguing for a long time that Greenlandic parties should also be included in the defence settlement, which is why I would also like to know a little about the IA's position on security policy. Then Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen will tell us a little about how we look at arming Ukraine, how we look at NATO's 2-percent objective, whether it makes sense to spend 2%. the value added of the Western world every year on the military, and what are the ideas on the security situation at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195837	Thank you very much. In fact, I think it is very positive to see that there is a broad majority in Greenland that has supported Greenland being part of NATO qua the fact that we are in the Kingdom Community. I think that is actually very positive. If you'd asked me two years ago or five years ago, I don't think it'd necessarily have been the same situation. But the world is changing, and especially the war in Ukraine affects many of us. I also think it is extremely positive that Greenland is standing with the rest of the West and is standing with Denmark on this issue of the war in Ukraine and Russia's act, and I am also doing so as President of the Arctic Parliamentarians, where we have also chosen to continue our work, to resume our work, but without the Russians, and then time on the long track must show how to build a trust with Russia, because Russia is after all 40 per cent. of the Arctic and is a major player in relation to the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195935	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195937	Is it a good priority that the Western world needs 2%? of its value creation every year on defense expenditure, military expenditure?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523195954	I am thinking as a starting point that it is the Danish taxpayers who are paying, and then it can be said that the 17 000 Greenlanders who live in Denmark may also help to pay a little. I think it is primarily a decision that is up to Denmark, and you have also found this national compromise about it, so I respect that, and I hear no one in Greenland complaining about it. Then you can discuss whether Greenland should in the long term contribute to paying, but I think that is a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200019	Thank you. I'll have some rest in the back of the hall. The next brief remark is to Mrs Karen Ellemann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200025	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, on the one hand for a good rapporteur's speech and, on the other hand, for a very committed cooperation. It's appreciated. The rapporteur spoke a little about the VIVE report that will be published tomorrow, and I assume that the rapporteur had the opportunity to look into the report a little. And there is also a consultation in the Greenland Committee on the recommendations of the report, or at least the findings of the report, and it happens on Wednesday, by chance, on a day when you have planned to hold a non-meeting here, because there is also a referendum and a campaign to be conducted. Nevertheless, I think that the opportunity here may be to get the rapporteur to perhaps try to elaborate a little on what the rapporteur sees as possible measures, given that we now have an insight into the conditions that very many Greenlandic families are living in Denmark in connection with the placement. I would very much like to hear the rapporteur say a little more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200132	Thank you for the question and also thank you for the fine words and good cooperation. And the compliment is really appreciated. Well, it's not always easy to come from Greenland and live here and try to have a family life once in a while, so thank you for that. I would say that there is a difference in the report, if you look at Danish children and Greenlandic children, in relation to how many are placed. And we have to take an interest in that difference. We also have to ask ourselves: Why is there that difference? I think we need to make it very concrete, boil it down to something very concrete, because that is where we can change something politically. I think we need to look at tests and see if we could make an adaptation to Greenlandic culture and language. I think we need to look at how we strengthen the interpretation so that it becomes more professional than what is today, where it is almost a little random. And here I am also thinking of cultural interpretation. It is not just a purely linguistic interpretation, but also that our mimik and our way of being can be different. And you have to think about that, so these are some of the factors that I see in any case quite specifically that we need to continue working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200241	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200242	Thank you for giving a number of concrete examples. I am sure that both the hearing and the subsequent debate will probably give even more examples of what can be done. Something that I would particularly like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on is the possibility of also being more focused on finding foster families with stronger Greenlandic relations, not necessarily people with Greenlandic backgrounds, but with a stronger knowledge of Greenlandic culture. Could it be one of the elements, that is, to be a little more focused on the type of potential foster families or relief families?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200323	Thank you very much. Well, I totally agree. Well, one of the things I know is that 8%. Greenlandic children in Denmark speak Greenlandic. That means that there are a lot of people who do not speak Greenlandic. And I think that some of them have lost their language during their stay with a foster family, for example. That is why I think it makes great sense to use some of the 17,000 Greenlanders who live in Denmark and I really hope that some of them will join us as foster families, because in this way you can preserve both your language and your culture and, at least, a cultural sensitivity. I think that makes enormous sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200401	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Bertel Haarder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200404	Thank you for a convincing speech and thank you for the comments and answers on security policy. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees with me that military vacuums are dangerous at a time when there may be tensions as there are at present; military vacuums that can tempt weak souls like Putin, for example. Does the rapporteur agree that we must ensure that the Kingdom Community and the North and also NATO ensure that we do not have military vacuums that can be tempted?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200449	Thank you very much. I believe that both a power vacuum and a military vacuum are dangerous in the way the world looks at right now. So yes, I think you need to know more about what is going on around Greenland; I think you need to make more use of the Greenlanders who may want to take emergency training or serve as military service, for example. in Denmark. These are opportunities that we need to unfold, particularly for this third of young people who are neither in education nor in work. I know that this creates some very good opportunities already for Greenlanders who are in the Navy, for example. I think it is a huge advantage both for the Navy and for our young people because they know about the Greenlandic language, know how to travel in Greenlandic territory and maybe are used to both sailing and driving on ATV and snowmobile. So I see a huge advantage for both sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200546	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200547	Thank you. Thank you for someone as always good speech, and thank you for some good days in Nuuk last week. I welcome the many questions that there are. It has increased as the years have passed, I have observed, and that is a sign of interest. There is reason to be happy about that. One of the things that struck me when I was in Nuuk last week, and it's not new, are business leaders and others who say that when they need co-play in the Danish central administration, it's a little difficult, others who say it's easier to talk to Americans in Nuuk than with Danes. I have been wondering a little bit whether we should simply not build up a substantial amount of our money, in other words a kind of advanced representation of the Danish central administration. And I just wanted to hear from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen how one would look at it if one imagined that a decision was made to have a stronger Danish footprint in order to actually have an open door in Nuuk into the Danish central administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200652	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200653	Thank you very much and also thank you for your participation in Future Greenland. I think it is a rather complex issue, which one has to discuss primarily between the government and the Naala Suisut, but I would like to try to give my bid. I think there are some challenges at home in Greenland. One of the things I heard was that there was a large wind turbine project that could actually be built in Greenland. They could easily get investors to pay for it, but they talked to our utility company, Nukissiorfiit, who said they're waiting for Naalaksuisut, and Naalaksuisut said they're waiting for Nukissiorfiit. In other words, there is a tendency for us to wait a little for each other and perhaps not quite take responsibility for us, and I think that will just be super important if we want to attract even more investors to the many potential projects that might well be in Greenland. And then you can ask whether it is Denmark that must equip administratively. I don't think so. I think that Denmark has many tasks, which then also stranded slightly in the various ministries. I previously lifted the veil that one could also consider a ministry that treated Greenland and the Arctic perhaps across the other ministries in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200805	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200806	It is, in fact, exactly the same concern that I actually have. I think we may also share the analysis, and someone just needs to develop some answers and some tools. Because with the relationship we have, at the moment at least, there are plenty of situations where Greenland and also Greenlandic business need Danish co-play, and it is far away, and you have to be your own process consultant in finding yourself in the right ministries. Then you can either do a different organisation in Denmark across the central administration or arm up in the PM's Office, or you could say that we have a stronger Danish presence in Greenland, so that in fact there was, I had almost said a Danish onestop shop in Nuuk, but we shouldn't solve that here, but the idea is at least sown.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200857	Thank you very much. I think the thing about thinking across and thinking a little flexibly, in any case, is a good idea, which I think one should hold on to. Whether it is the rich offer that needs to be developed or whether it is another way to solve it, I think it is a rather important discussion to have taken, because it is a little, as I also said to Future Greenland, as if Greenland is waiting for Denmark and Denmark waiting for Greenland. Somehow you also have to talk about who is responsible, who is interested. There I think that much of it lies at home with us, but of course also that Denmark should be willing to listen and willing to act quickly, when it is then that Greenland says that this is what we want to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200931	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523200934	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. One of the things that we have worked with a lot on a daily basis is digitalisation, and Greenland is one of the countries where digitalisation has the greatest potential due to distance. Can the rapporteur say a little about what opportunities the rapporteur sees for us to help Greenland in this journey, including the Danish Parliament, to achieve a more efficient digitalisation of Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523201000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523201001	Thank you. I am thinking in particular of health, and I am thinking of education, where there are extremely high potentials. And the way we live on that I have also previously taken up here from the Parliament's platform.Of course, Greenland has to discuss something, and I know that there is a plan statement on the way to a discussion about it. However, as long as we live in the 80 different places that we do, we also need to rethink, and digitalisation can help to make it easier to get qualified training into the settlements, or to get easier access to a doctor or something else, which is not necessarily available today. So you have to address those questions. Then there have been three cyber attacks in Greenland over the last five months, and I think it should be noted that it is both parliament, health care and others that have been strongly affected by this. And that really makes Greenland quite vulnerable when there is also military interest from other countries around us. So we have to, even when we talk defense, arm up in terms of cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523201108	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523201109	Thank you so much for your answer. And then, of course, we do not yet have the areas where I think we also agree that, for example, we do not yet have the areas that have been repatriated. digital registration and other things that have been rolled out in Denmark are about to start in Greenland. Does the rapporteur see an opportunity or an idea to try to do some common strategy work across the Kingdom community? I am thinking, for example. on the fact that Greenland is not yet recognised as a safe third country compared to this Schrems II judgment, which gives a whole lot of trouble. Isn't there a need for us to talk a little closer together and help each other, so this kind of thing isn't something where you hang in the brake as long as in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523201147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523201148	I think we should start by addressing the specific tasks. One is digital registration, and we need to find a solution to that, and I think the questioner agrees with me on that. After all, we have fought for this in the Greenland Committee, and we must have that resolved as a minimum. After all, it is a question of the Greenlandic community being involved, i.e. also digitally, that we ensure that the opportunities available in terms of efficiency, for example. in the field of registration, should not be something where we hang in the brake, and which is something you have done in Denmark many, many years ago, but where you have just forgotten to bring Greenland with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523201222	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. I would recommend that there should generally be a very low level of conversation in the Chamber when negotiating. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523201236	Thank you. Dear comrades and colleagues. Today we have the final debate before the next elections, and how much we have been through together. We have debated, we have discussed, we have disagreed, but we have also worked cross-checked. We've worked hard and we've been sweating, we've been crying. During my entire activities in the Folketing, I have always endeavoured to defend our Greenlandic population and culture, whatever it has been about stigmatisations of kalaallit/inuit when it comes to sexual violations, or the rights of indigenous people to live in their settlements. Trump offered to buy Kalaallit Nunaat, which created much debate in the Danish kingdom. I gave my first speech here in the Folketing to the opening debate, when I spoke about the colonial history of Denmark at a time when it was not as common to speak about it as it has already become today. During the budget negotiations, we secured 50 million. kr. to the Greenland police and asylum officers, who should give a backlash to combat the unequal pay conditions, and we have also ensured more measures for vulnerable children. Then the pandemic broke out. During the pandemic, most of the world went into hibernation under restrictions and lockdown. This gave peace and space to the struggle of indigenous peoples for equal worth; a battle that is still being fought, a battle in which many kalaallit/inuit have found strength. Statues have been torn down and vandalized or decorated. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen gave an official apology to the experimental children. There I have to say, Mette: there you stood on the right side of the story. Fourth Vice-President Sorry, you don't use direct charges, and you don't say "you." It was an historic event in which it was an honour to participate. When the war in Ukraine broke out, everyone in the Folketing agreed that Russia should not annex Ukraine. To put it mildly, we have been through a lot together in recent years. It has been exciting, demanding and hard, but it has given hope for the future in particular. Since the elections in 2019 and up to now, the colonisation of Greenland has become a much more common topic. A detaboo of the subject also automatically creates a much-needed internal decolonisation. Young willful, proud and resilient calaallit/inuit stand up and demand their right. Some a little more experienced and older kalaallit/inuit look relieved on this generation, for now they can finally get the experience of not being alone. Throughout the history of Kalaallit Nunaat, we have always had strong voices. It has only been a question of whether the votes were heard or not. Because when we kalaallit/inuit say to and from, we don't always do it verbally, as we do here in Denmark. When I was home in Greenland and celebrating Christmas, I met an elderly gentleman who told me a story about us from Greenland never forgetting then, Anker Jørgensen said the infamous words: There is nothing to raffle about. The question was whether Greenland's underground belonged to us Greenlanders or the Danes. But when Anker Jørgensen came to Sisimiut, the second largest town in Greenland, Sisimiormiut was ready with a gift for the then prime minister. With a smile on his lip and no further explanation, they gave him a raffle cup. It is not because we kalaallit/inuit always say things as you do in Denmark, but here the message was clear. As long as Denmark and Greenland have joint obligations to each other, the voices of Kalaallits/inuits must be heard even more and more clearly, including in the Folketing. We are no longer to be ignored. During my citizens' meetings in Greenland, in Kangerlussuaq, Kulusuk, Tasiilaq, Uummannaq, Ikerasak, Saattut, Ukkusissat, Qaarsut, Niaqornat I have talked to people from near and far. I've talked to them about everything between heaven and earth. It was here that the lives of the Greenlandic citizen, our stories, our knowledge, our strength and our pride became even clearer to me. As a Greenlandic parliamentarian, it is an honour to communicate these reports and needs as much as possible. However, when Greenland has only two seats in the Folketing, the dissemination cannot always be complete far from it. That is why it is important that we have a form of parliamentary council set up in Greenland, so that communication in relation to the 36 responsibilities that Denmark is obliged to assume for Greenland is not only on the two Greenlandic politicians, but also on a selected council from Inatsisartut. Together, we're gonna lift in packs. We stand together across generations and geographical distances. We don't just want to know our own story... we want to write our own story. In this way, the past, the present and the future are merged together. We are inspired by our own history to change the present and create a better future. In this way modern Greenland is not just high-rises and takeaway. In this way modern Greenland is also young inuit with facial tattoos. The modern Greenlander is not ashamed to eat matt and dry fish; the modern Greenlander struggles to regain his language and is proud of his source. For too long we have heard the story that we have not been mature enough to take care of our own country, even though we were the only ones who could survive in that country. The imaginary narrative we must learn to look at with nuanced glasses. In fact, there is a story in nunarput that Hans Egede was caught by great surprise when Inuit slaughtered and ate the polar bears, and he saw that they did not eat the whole polar bear, but left the liver alone. That's why he insisted on teaching those Inuits that you could easily eat the liver from polar bears by eating it yourself in front of them. And there, when he ate it, even though they warned him strictly against it, it should turn out to be a very bad idea, because the consumption of polar bears was definitely life-threatening and had nearly killed him. In the story it ended with Inuit saving his life, but when we see the new documentary about our history, and when we read broader history books, we only hear about how Hans and Gertrud helped sick Eskimos during the smallpox epidemic. In our original culture we passed on knowledge and information through storytelling, but these stories are first considered valid with Western glasses if they have been written down. Some may think that this knowledge and these stories are unreliable, but on the other hand we know today, through research, that you should not eat polar bear liver, as it contains extremely large amounts of vitamin A. So we have had this knowledge long before you could measure up to that information. This refined knowledge system is our cultural heritage from our ancestors and mothers. When we're heard ourselves, we're not just helpless poor people that a priest was supposed to save from ourselves. When we demand the opportunity to tell our own story from within, it is to say that we were the civilised people who helped any human being in need, no matter how this person may behave. In this way, we did not need a doctor's vow to know what was ethically correct. For far too long we have listened to the Danish adventurers who only look at us from the outside. We've had enough of that. It is no longer enough to hire Greenlandic actors, while it is the large Danish production that determines the final narrative. It is no longer enough for us to be rewritten when we have competent writers ourselves. We from Siumut have always fought for the Greenlandic Inuit That is why we will continue to fight for the Greenlandic representation. Whether it is in foreign policy, in the Arctic Council, or in a contact committee; whether it is in internal affairs where the only indigenous people in the kingdom are neglected; whether it is the entire legal system, the police, the defence and the courts that it is a Danish responsibility to take care of Greenland, we from Siumut will ensure that the voice of the Greenlandic citizen is heard in the Folketing. This development, which we now see at home in Greenland, has been going on for a long time. We, kalaallit/inuit, are engaged in an unbending decolonization. It gives hope, it gives strength and courage, and you can disagree as much as you like, but it no longer stops us. So the question to our family and friends in Denmark becomes: What will you do to place yourself on the right side of the story this time? Saperata Isumaqaleratta maanna sapernata iliuuseqalerpugut. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202239	Thank you. The first brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202243	Thank you. Thank you for a good speech, and thank you for your cooperation during the year and the parliamentary year here. The rapporteur also mentions that Siumut stands for a defence of history and culture in Greenland, and there is no doubt about that, and that is of course a good thing. There's another thing. If we now imagine that we see Greenland's culture and history as something we want to develop, something we want to do together, something we can see as something common in the Kingdom community, how can we do so? What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202321	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the good cooperation that is also with the sister party both in Greenland and Denmark. In relation to the internal process that we from Greenland are engaged in, it is first and foremost important for me to point out that this is something we are doing ourselves. So, these are some things we have experienced that we are in the process of and have an inner recovery time with, because we want to stand stronger and we want to be proud of the source we have. Personally, I think that the Danish side should not see this as an attack on Denmark, but rather as a strengthening of the community that we will also build forward-looking. That is why we should also look at the fact that it has reconciliation, which has also been desired, also been looked at with positive glasses, including, among other things: is something that was brought up again by Siumut in the Greenland Parliament last week about how we can do more to bring these issues up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202423	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202424	Thank you. I am very pleased that there is a constructive approach to this. Well, that's what I'm talking about. The second thing we have discussed quite a lot during the year is how we can best build knowledge among the three peoples and the three cultures in relation to the kingdom community we now have. There is my question to the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur think about this? How can we best ensure such knowledge-building?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202451	Thank you for the question. It is really important to us, as I also made clear in the speech, that we also involve Greenlandic professionals in the history of Greenland. This is the case, and we can see that, when we look back in history, it has mostly been oral stories that were only later written down when it has been seen with Greenlandic glasses on. And here it is also important that we say: no matter what, no matter how objective we try to be, there may be some kind of subjectivism, and we need to nuance this story as far as possible by also involving Greenlandic glasses.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202527	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Karen Ellemann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202530	Thank you to the rapporteur, also for cooperation and a very exciting speech. It was a rapporteur's speech in which the rapporteur was not mentioned so much about the current report, which will be published only tomorrow and where there will be a hearing on the content of it on Wednesday. It is a report which focuses on Greenlandic children in Denmark and this over-representation of children who are then removed from the home and live in either institutions or in foster families, and I would like to hear how Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam looks at or has opinions about it, and it may be that the rapporteur does not have time to look at the report, as it will only come tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202629	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I am also pleased that there has been more and more dialogue and debate on this particular subject, because it is Siumut who was alone in funding this particular report, which the rapporteur will be discussing tomorrow. So when Siumut first presented this, among other things. to the Greenland Committee, there was no support for something systematic, and we are therefore pleased that this debate has finally progressed further, so that we can move forward in the process, among other things. by looking at mainly two things: the first is that legal certainty must be in order for the Greenlandic parents before they even choose to place the child, and that they must make sure that they understand what process they are in, and that they also take into account culture, language and other things. The second is that the Greenlandic children should not lose their source on the basis of this placement, if it is that the placement is necessary, and there we also need to find common solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202734	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202735	As a repeat of what I also said to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen before, I would like to ask whether some of the solutions could be to focus more on the possibility of what we sometimes call networking, but at least placements in potential foster families that have stronger relations with Greenland and a more in-depth understanding of Greenlandic culture and possibly also Greenlandic language. Could this be one of the options that could be pursued? What is the rapporteur's position on such a proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202813	Absolutely. First of all, I can also inform you that during several dialogues with voluntary organisations, which have just focused on these issues, I heard that there are already some wheels in progress, you might say. There are some Greenlandic associations and organisations trying to create funding to create a location where the Greenlandic children may come here without losing their language and source. So there are several solutions to this, but it is clear that we also need to start from the general Greenlandic population in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202850	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202853	Thank you. As I understood it, the rapporteur says that there is a progressive process of decolonisation, and I am not talking about this as being contrary to the growing development of the Kingdom community, and then I would like to ask what elements should be included in such reconciliation work as is necessary to bring the two processes together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523202918	First of all, thank you very much for the question. It is of course important for us to point out time and again that there is no point in the Danish side fighting it here, because it is essentially more about strengthening ourselves within the Greenlandic population, after which any reconciliation, a process of truth and reconciliation, is quite important if it is to want stronger ties with the family members and friends that you also have in Denmark. Because regardless of how this decolonization process is going on, let's say that it also ends with a state formation... it shouldn't be on the basis of some internal disputes that you can't have proper cooperation. We must place ourselves on the right side of the story by among other things. to say that we would like to recognise what has happened and that we take responsibility for it and want to move forward. And in this way, we strengthen each other to say that whatever happens, we will be stronger together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203022	Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203024	Then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur has any concrete examples of wishes, demands or suggestions as to how the Danish side of the process should proceed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203037	In the end, pure openness is what we lack. We wanted a reconciliation process back in 2013, where there was a clear reluctance on the part of the then Prime Minister, and it goes without saying that we could not stand by reconciliation alone in a matter between two parties, yet Greenland launched a reconciliation commission. And here we are just talking about openness and goodwill in understanding, and ultimately that is what will strengthen us all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203109	This is Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Marcus Knuth Sorry, we just played a little chair game over here. I am not Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, there should be doubt about it). That's what I was just supposed to be 100% sure of. But Mr. Marcus Knuth the word? Marcus Knuth Yes, I'd love to, and that's for the sake of Mr. Knuth. Rasmus Jarlov's foot that we switched places). Okay, well, it was just in relation to the minutes, so we've got this kind of thing under control. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203137	Thank you very much. I'm sorry for the confusion. Something that has been very popular among young Greenlanders in recent years has been the opportunity to serve as military service in Denmark. That is why we also extended the possibility of serving military service, at least some form of military service, in Greenland, but the new Greenlandic leadership then chose to put everything aside, including the possibility of attending a session or the Day of Defence, as it is called. Now I think we have come back and taken a step in the right direction, but there has been a little zigzag back and forth, and that is a pity for the young Greenlanders who want to serve as military service. Can the rapporteur make a few comments on whether you think you are doing enough on the part of Greenland to create the best opportunities for young Greenlanders to serve as military service?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203217	Thank you for the question. It is the case that the current Naalakkersuisoq for Foreign Affairs has just made an agreement with the Danish Defence Minister about an emergency training programme in Greenland. There is a consensus in the Greenland Parliament that we must try to maintain that there must be low-voltage as far as possible, and here it is also important not to call it military training or military training, because basically it is an emergency training. So there are already some things going on, and there are some opportunities that are being created, and that is just the tip of the iceberg, because there will be further negotiations on exactly how to develop these programmes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203259	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203300	Thank you. It is a step in the right direction, but there are still many young Greenlanders who would like to come to Denmark and serve the ordinary military service here. Does the rapporteur think that there are the best conditions for this? There could be Greenlanders who wanted to make a career in the Danish defence and then possibly come back to Greenland with some of the Danish ships. But it takes, like, to start military service in Denmark. We would like both of them to be there, both the emergency training in Greenland, but also the possibility of serving as military service in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203331-2	It must also be made clear that there is nothing to prevent the individual from having his or her personal freedom in relation to being able to choose to go to Denmark and to serve as a military service. We are Danish citizens, and as long as it applies, you have personal freedom. Right now, there's really nothing more to say about it. What has not been is a military training programme in Greenland. When we look at the level of education in Greenland, which has really been increasing, we can see, compared to the whole population, that it has increased because the training courses are possible to take in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203408	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203410	Thank you. It was a very ideological speech, and I would therefore like to allow myself to be a little ideological in relation to the Greenlandic culture and the need to cultivate it. I think that along the way there were some rather unreasonable indications that Danish should have a desire to keep Greenlandic culture down. I do not think that is the case at all. There is no one in the Folketing, I believe, who wants anything but Greenlandic culture to be strengthened and cultivated, and we have great respect for Greenlandic culture. We have great respect for the strong independent Greenlandic people, and we only want to maintain our culture and develop it and build a great pride, if you do not already have it, in being Greenlandic, both in terms of history, culture, language and all sorts of other cultural expressions. I do not think it is a reasonable suggestion that this should be something that we are trying to oppose from the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203520	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203520-2	It's very reassuring to hear that Conservatives want to be as much a part of strengthening this culture and this language and authorship, and I'm gonna put that behind my ear. And then we must hope that, among other things, we shall be able to do so. Defence and preparedness may be able to develop it even more with e.g.: use of the Greenland flag and the possibility to develop the courses in the Greenlandic language as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203550	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203551	What is the art is not to put up such a contradiction between being a member of the Kingdom and being a Greenlander. The art is to make it work. Denmark and Greenland must make the most of the relationship we have with each other. Denmark would like to be Greenland's access to Europe, and we would like to contribute with our slightly larger size in relation to our diplomatic network and the opportunities to monitor the very large territory of Greenland without provoking great powers and keeping the right balance etc. After all, we would like to contribute all sorts of things. And there I think it is important that we get that cooperation up and running. We belong together, but we're not the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203631	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203632	We belong together, but we're not the same. Again: I'll put it behind my ear. When the author puts it that way, I begin to think that perhaps there is more that can actually help us to gather together. So even when we talk about possible state formation and something like that, it is ultimately the same structure that is being laid out here that we are trying to get. For as the construction looks like right now, there are some areas where Greenland according to among other things. The constitution must never be allowed to have anything to say for itself. But here we are pleased that this is not how it should be understood by the conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203713	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203715	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur and thank you for your cooperation on a daily basis. I would just like to start by expressing the rapporteur's thoughts on closer cooperation and closer dialogue at parliamentary level. I think it is right, very wise, that such thoughts are being thought, even at a time when so many changes are taking place in the Kingdom community. So we take that very positively from the left side. Another issue that has historically also filled a lot for Siumut is how we create economic development in Greenland, and for us it also fills a lot of how we do it in Denmark. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has any thoughts about whether there are some areas where we could work together more together for mutual benefit and happiness in creating some economic development both in Greenland and in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203800-2	First of all, this is the case, among other things. if we look at the climate area, that Greenland has already developed the hydroelectric power plant, so it is 75%. of our energy coming from hydroelectric power stations, and Denmark now wants to help with this, so it will be 100 per cent. So there are some areas of cooperation that we can easily agree to. In relation to these forms of energy, we would like to be able to help in some way to produce so that we can practically pass it on to the rest of the world. So there are also some potentials there. But if we look at the digitalisation, we also need a lot of energy to make sure that the digital also works, and there are also many great potentials at home in Greenland. But for that matter, I also think that the Danish side can help to combat some of the transfer pricing that we have also tried to fight against, and right now I also know that there is a cooperation between Naalaksuisut and the Danish ministries to find a solution to some of these challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203902	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203903	Thank you for that, and thank you for some good offers. Another debate, which also takes up a lot in Greenland, is what happens when we get these airports that are soon ready. Do you see a role for Denmark that, in helping to build up or invest, or • can you say, convey investment in a secondary industry that is going to, like hotels and travel agencies that are going to make travel, and such? Could there be any cooperation on this kind of thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523203933-2	Yes, it may well be, but what's about it is that if we can say that we have to get some benefit from these airports, then we're in a hurry. Because there really is a lot of development to ensure that it also brings economic benefits, not only to the people, but also to the general public, in order to be able to pay for these airports. But here it is also important that we not only exclude it for a Danish investment, but that we also open up to the rest of the world because investment opportunities are not only limited to the Danish kingdom.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204006	Karina Adsbøl, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204008	Thank you. I would like to ask you some of what has been debated a little today. It is about the fact that children of native Greenlanders are often removed and more often than the children of Danish parents seven times more often and five times more often if one of the parents is from Greenland. And Mrs Karen Ellemann has mentioned the use of the network a little earlier. However, I would like to hear the rapporteur's solution on how to correct the situation. One is the parental competence studies and the tests that were used, which have been debated, but what does the rapporteur think about prevention, in relation to children and families, get the help they need, so that they can possibly stay in families rather than have to be placed? Today's debate has been very concerned about the need for children to be placed and the need to find a place where they can be placed, but it could also be, if the families and children were given the right help, that they could stay in the families. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's proposals on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204112	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204113	Thank you very much for the question. I think that we need to look first and foremost at what these are things that also make it more difficult in relation to being born a Danish citizen, but that you have grown up in a place where you just don't have the same system at all. One of the things I want to mention as quickly as I can now with the short time I have for it is that we are not really used to having those boxes that you have in Denmark. So when there are some parents, for example. moving to Denmark, they may lose the job and become job seekers, and then they quickly end up on cash benefits. But there you have a completely different view of what it means, because you first have the box and then have some other systems, and then you are quickly judged as socially exposed because of this economic approach. But there may also be quite other factors that we have not just seen. So, in terms of prevention, I also think that legal certainty, compared to the fact that there is a difference between Danish citizens in Greenland and Danish citizens who have grown up in Denmark, can be very different.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204215	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204216	I fully agree that legal certainty is important, and we also see in general terms that legal certainty lags behind. But I would really like to hear some solutions. In other words, what will the rapporteur bring to the Minister in order to provide the families with the right support and help and the right effort? It is of course worrying that it is seven times more often that if you are of Greenlandic origin, you have your child placed than if you are of Danish origin. And many would say that it happens all too often. So what exactly are the solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204252	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204252-2	If we look at the first problem, namely the strengthening of legal certainty and prevention here, it is also important to look at the fact that there are already some active Greenlandic organisations doing their best on a voluntary basis to help and advise the municipalities on what approach they should take, for example. These Greenlandic citizens. It may also be an idea here to create a task force so that they can quickly travel between municipalities and provide the right advice and help. But it's just one suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204325	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523204339	Thank you. Everything has an end, and this parliamentary year has also had a year in which we again live a normal life after a few years in a state of emergency, and where we in the Folketing have been able to focus on what we are set up in the world for: political work. I'm sure we're all happy about that. Everything has an end, and so has my political career. I would be lying if I said that it is not with great sadness when I can tell today that I am at the end of my time as a member of the Folketing. I have informed my country back home in the Faroe Islands that I will not re-table at the forthcoming parliamentary elections. I think I can withdraw with good conscience after 34 years on the political arena. I have served my political military service. But I would like to stress that I will, of course, continue my work here in the Folketing and will do so with full force until the next election is over when it will then be. When I look back at these 34 years in one where I have been active in politics, it has been a few years that have been marked by a great deal of success in the Faroe Islands, but unfortunately also adversity. When I became a lagman in 1994, it is not wrong to say that the Faroe Islands were in deep crisis. The biggest economic crisis in the history of the Faroe Islands was at its peak, and the Faroe Islands had almost gone bankrupt. Public wages fell, taxes increased, unemployment was on towering 20%, and the relocation from the islands was huge. During the crisis, the Faroe Islands had a net emigration equivalent to 15%. of the population before the crisis. Most moved to Denmark, where you had the opportunity to get a job and where you could speak the language. About half of all these people never moved back home. It was not the easiest task to lead a country in a major crisis, but the Faroe Islands are a strong and proud people and, with everything else, the crisis ended, among other things. Because of a strict economic policy, a new regime with the division of resort areas, the introduction of parliamentarianism and the fact that the Faroe Islands went from what looks like a planned economy to a market economy. There should therefore be no more than a few years before the crisis turned to prosperity, and since then the Faroe Islands have experienced a long economic upswing. Furthermore, when the global financial crisis started in 2008, it did not hit the Faroe Islands as hard. The number of unemployed today can be counted in very few hands, gross domestic product has more than tripled since the 1990s, and today we are considered to be between one of the richest countries per year. residents of the world. This is the first time that the Faroe Islands are equal to Denmark. I am pleased to be able to retire and be assured that the Faroe Islands are a good and stable place, and that our young people will choose the Faroe Islands and move back home with their family once they have finished their studies abroad. Just as the Faroe Islands have undergone a great development, so has the Kingdom Community. I usually say that our kingdom community is dynamic and evolves over time. The new contact committee is the result of the fact that the balance of power in our community has tipped north. The trend is that the Faroe Islands and Greenland must increasingly be an integral part of the decision-making process in the field of foreign and security policy. It is to me to see a symbol of the potential of the Kingdom community as long as there is a willingness to modernise. The support for our community is great and all three countries are prepared to find solutions. However, when the challenges arise, we debate them and resolve them together. This gives us equal cooperation between three countries, where dialogue is given priority and where there is listening to each other. We can be proud of this, and it makes the Kingdom community stronger than ever before, even to the outside world. Sambandsflockkurin will certainly always be the guarantor of a solution-oriented Faroese vote in the Folketing, so I naturally hope that Sambandsflockkurin as a party will retain his mandate when I thank him. Everything has an end, and so does this speech now. For good reasons, I do not know if I will be able to stand on this platform again. The election period is not yet over, but as you know, everything can be done in politics, and it is only the Prime Minister who knows when the parliamentary elections will be held. But I would like to end by thanking all of you for your good cooperation. Thank you to the Folketing, to the present and previous governments for the willingness to listen to the Faroe Islands and Greenland and for prioritising the dialogue with us. I hope that this good cooperation will continue far, far into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205057	Thank you for that summary of 30 years. And I'm gonna break the line here a little bit, and I'm gonna ask Mr. Simpson. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen to be the first to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205107	Thank you. I would just like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Edmund Joensen for a formidable effort for our people's government both in the Faroe Islands and in Denmark for our entire kingdom. Thank you for a great deal of work in the Confederal Group of the European United Left, where the rapporteur's kick-in has always been wise, intelligent and experienced. And it has been a statesman who speaks in the Confederal Group of the Left. I hope the rapporteur will continue to do so for the rest of the parliamentary term. And I just want to express my deepest respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205147	Thank you for the nice words and happiness in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205155	Then it's mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205157	Takk fyri, Edmund Joensen. When I was elected to the Folketing, I hurried home to my other homeland in the Faroe Islands and visited my grandfather. And Mr. Edmund Joensen knows what it's like when you come to the Faroe Islands and the rumor goes out in the village that you have come home. Then friends and family come running, and there'll be cookies and food on the tables. And, of course, the same thing happened at my grandfather's house. I was looking forward to people coming to congratulate me, and it's always nice. And I remember that my grandmother's brother was one of the first to come, and the first thing he asked me was: Hvussu gongur Edmund, so how's Edmund? For Edmund Joensen and him had gone to business school together back in the 1960s in Thorshavn, and he had followed Mr. Edmund Joensen ever since. Sir. Edmund Joensen fills a great deal in the Faroese people's consciousness and has made incredibly many impressions. I have experienced this in my life in the Faroe Islands, and I would just like to thank Mr. Edmund Joensen. Alt tað consist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205257	Thank you for the nice words and a greeting to the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205306	Wind and sun will be split right here. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205309	I was very happy when I saw that Mr. Edmund Joensen was re-elected during this period. I have had the great pleasure of experiencing not only the hospitality of the concubines, but in particular Mr. Edmund Joensen's hospitality when he invited the Faroes Committee to his home, where specialities were offered both liquid and fasting. It was an unforgettable night. I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. Edmund Joensen for his mild but stubborn mind and for his efforts for the Faroe Islands and for the Faroe Islands, which is a proud nation, which in many ways is a model and a light in the world. In the 1800s, Faroese was disappearing; today, the Faroe Islands are a vibrant country with a sense of nationalism, which should actually be an example to follow for all. When such a small nation can shine so brightly in the world, what can Denmark not do if one follows the example of the Faroe Islands? Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. It is a great pleasure to have met you here in the Chamber and in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205423	Thank you for the nice words and thanks to the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205430	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205432	Thank you. I'm sure we'll meet later tonight for a beer or maybe two. But I just want to say thank you for the time that has passed. Sir. Edmund Joensen and I have been representatives of the Faroe Islands for eight years, and I think, Mr. Edmund Joensen was first elected to politics 34 years ago. And there's a lot you can learn from mr. Edmund Joensen. He's not an ideological swarm. He is not, but when you look at his career and his way of working, you are reminded of one thing: what you do in politics must be anchored in the everyday lives and everyday lives of ordinary citizens. Otherwise, it won't get us anywhere. Ideology of whether it's socialism or liberalism or a thought of secession doesn't matter. It cannot live its own life; it must be anchored in the everyday lives of ordinary people. Something to learn from Mr. Edmund Joensen's work is always to be at eye level with ordinary citizens; never to let ideologies prevail. Thank you for that lesson. And I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205542	Thanks for the nice words.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205548	Sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205549	Thank you for the floor, and thank you very much for a dazzling speech. Everything has an end, 34 years, you might say, it is 1988, if only I could say that it was before I was born, but unfortunately it is not. I would like to say that it always sharpens curiosity when you say goodbye to such a capacity in Faroese politics, because there is no doubt that you should not follow the Faroe Islands for a very long time before you find out that Mr. Edmund Joensen is a very special figure in Faroese politics, and there is no doubt that in the 34 years that have passed, as the rapporteur himself has explained, the Faroe Islands have become quite a success story, it must be said. And it can also do a little bit to make me curious about what the rapporteur can give of good advice, so that we can do even better for the Faroe Islands and how we can strengthen Faroese society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205657	Thank you. Sir. Edmund Joensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205658	Thank you and a greeting to the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205703	So that's Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205705	I would also like to say thank you very much. Although it has been a very short period of cooperation, I would like to thank you for the fun and also good advice we have discussed about fishing fleets and other exciting things. So I would also just like to express my gratitude for the fact that we have succeeded in sharing each other in different ways of thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205731	Thank you for the nice words from Enhedslisten, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205736	Lars Løkke Rasmussen, the Moderates.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205738	Thank you. I would also like to take this opportunity, sir. Edmund Joensen, to thank you very much for your cooperation over many years in different roles. I have greatly appreciated that. You can't overestimate that effort, sir. Edmund Joensen has done in terms of promoting Faroese interests in Denmark and also promoting Danes' knowledge of the Faroe Islands. In particular, I also think it has been positive and remarkable that Mr. Edmund Joensen has not had any fear of seeking negotiations, starting when I myself was Minister of Finance, about the Danish Finance Act, and also reaching out to cooperation in areas where it could be said very formalistally that it is a reclaimed area and that it is not a Danish responsibility. Among other things, it has. Very, very exciting cultural projects such as this have been made possible. sand on Suðuroy. So thank you for that. You really have to ask a question, but no one else has, so I just want to say thank you. Vit síggjast heima, and then I hope there's coffee on the pot!
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205843	Thank you for those nice words, and thank you to the Moderates.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205852	Then Christoffer is Aagaard Melson, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205856	Thank you very much, too. Edmund Joensen. It has been a pleasure to get to know the rapporteur and to cooperate with him here in recent years. I will break the line and then actually ask a question, because I think the rapporteur should also be allowed to comment a little on one of the issues on which I have been working with the rapporteur recently and which I know the rapporteur is passionate about, and which I hope will also come into being before the rapporteur has finished here in the Danish Parliament, namely the work to ensure that the Faroe Islands and the European Union can have a better trade agreement. So I do not know whether the rapporteur can say a little about why he believes that it would be beneficial for the Faroe Islands also to become closer to the EU in the form of a better trade agreement, and what the rapporteur also believes the Danish role could be in terms of making it succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523205944	Thank you. The Faroe Islands are currently facing too much commitment to one market, in other words Russia. A quarter of Faroese exports went to Russia and you become too addicted when it is not a country that belongs to our part of the world, the free world. Because when a boycott like this comes suddenly, it hits the Faroe Islands hard, and then we have to find alternatives, and if we think about it and say that there are about 500 million people in the European Union, the free world, and we have a large market in the United States, then it must be these markets that are the main markets. However, the Faroe Islands are in a situation where we just have a simple trade agreement, which one might say is a commodity agreement, and it requires modernisation, so that more space is provided for than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523210056	Thank you. Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523210100	I would just like to say that I hope that the rapporteur will succeed in crowning the great work he has put into this matter, that he will also succeed, and that with the piece he has played in the game, both in the dialogue with the Folketing and the government, an agreement will be reached. I think it would be good for the security of the European Union, Denmark and the Faroe Islands to succeed. So good luck to the rapporteur, and thank you once again for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523210122	Thank you in the same way, and we also expect, after everything we have heard from the Danish Government, that the Danish side will also help and press and promote a trade agreement. Thanks for the nice words.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523210136	Sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523210138	I also think it is appropriate, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, to thank Mr. Edmund Joensen. After all, we have had the opportunity to travel together sometimes, and if there is one thing that I really appreciate and that is really, really good at, then it is precisely to remind us of our common history, why. I think there are many speeches in the Faroe Islands that start with why it is now that the Faroe Islands ended up as Danish and not as Norwegian and not as British, and the common history is also necessary if it is the case that we have to understand the kingdom community as a whole, and unfortunately too many do not. So with it also just a thank you from here, a brief comment from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523210218	Thank you for those nice words, and thank you to Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523210221	Thank you, sir. Edmund Joensen. There are no more brief comments. Thank you. Edmund Joensen Thank you, President, and I hope that with the praise I have received I will not consider running again. Thank you all). Laughter) Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523210238	Thank you. You want to say something funny today? some have asked me in the coffee room next to me during the day. I don't want to. Bad time for lyrics is called a poem by Bertolt Brecht from 1939. He was, as you know, in Svendborg, where he had fled from the Nazis and in the poem he mentions the beautiful things he sees and could write about. But he can't. There is something that overshadows everything and is the only thing that can draw him to the desk, namely the horror that the driver's speech south of the border awakens in him. Just writing a poem that rhymed would seem to him to be presumptuous, haughty. Brecht would also have thought that it would be haughty and escapism to sack jokes these days. We are, and we must be dismayed at the atrocities of the Russian army. On the other hand, we are relieved by the surprisingly great strength and success of the Ukrainians, and there are many who publicly express their joy at it. But the price of that joy is thousands and thousands of dead Russian soldiers. We have seen some of the prisoners who have already been tried in Kyiv for war crimes. The executioners, all over the world, are often 20, 19, 18 - year - olds. We become part of the perversion of war, when we rejoice at the weakening of the Russian forces, as it is formally called, and the death of these boys, as it really means, because they have not made themselves the messengers of destruction and death they are victims. As the main character of "Nothing News from the Western Front," Paul Bäumer, says about the adults: For us boys of 18, they should have been guides to the adult world, a world of work, with duty, with culture, with progress to the future, but the adults, those with power and authority, failed the young German boys before World War I, and now have failed the young Russian boys. After he has shot a French soldier, Bäumer says to the body: forgive me, friend, we always see it too late. Why don't we ever say that you're fucking poor people like us, your mothers are just as scared as ours, and we have the same dread, the same death, the same horror. Forgive me, friend, how could you be my enemy? Another place he answers: An order has made these quiet characters our enemies. An order could transform them into our friends. An incident from reality confirms it. Everyone in here knows the story, but it's calling to be taken out these days. It's Christmas Eve 1914, World War I is raging, and a million soldiers have been shot. Boyfriends, fathers, sons shot by other boyfriends, fathers, sons. Tonight, however, guns are silent, and a group of English soldiers can hear songs from the opposite trench through silence. "Oh Tannenbaum, oh Tannenbaum·," it sounds, and since then "Stille Nacht," heilable Nacht·. With it, the stage is set on the war's only magical, beautiful evening, a night that many who were with have told about, and which therefore really took place. The English are starting to sing "O Come," All Ye Faithful, so the Germans can hear it. And then come the soldiers who have always shot at each other like in trance out of their trenches. They meet, they share cigarettes and wine, and they sing the same songs together. From the mouths of some it sounds like the Lord is my Shepherd, while from others it sounds like Derr ist mein Hirt. Paul Bäumer calls the front a prison cage. This evening, the prisoners of reality break out of the cage that Stefan Zweig called the greatest plague, nationalism. It is the humanity of soldiers who, for one night, break loose from their leaders' propaganda and desire for power. They can see that they are alike, they are sons, boyfriends, spouses, fathers, friends, the cruel absurdity of war is clear to all. They have no reason to shoot at each other, they have no different interests, they are at the same time tools and victims of an ideology that the next day orders them again to hate and shoot an ideology that reduces people to nothing. That ideology still exists under different names. In the Nobel Prize-winning interview book Prayer for the Chernobyl of the author Svetlana Aleksijevitj describes a citizen of Ukraine's relations between state and individual in the 1980s Soviet Union. My diagnosis, she says, do you want to hear it? It's a mix of a prison and a kindergarten. That's what socialism was, Soviet socialism. A human being puts his soul in the hands of the state, his consciousness, his heart and received his rations in return. That's why it was all about luck. Some got a big ration, others got a small one. The only thing that was common to all was that you got it in exchange for your soul. The fernis that decorates the brutality of nationalism and power in Russia is no longer called socialism, but it is the same brutality, the same ambition of greatness and lesbensraum. It is absolutely essential to ensure freedom in Ukraine and stability in Europe that the Russian army is turned back, and it seems to be successful through the Ukrainians' own efforts, through the giant military aid of the United States and the support of other countries, including weapons for the billions that Denmark has sent. It is necessary, but it is nothing to rejoice about. Because when we talk overall about the weakened strength of the Russian invasion, we are really talking about dead sons, fathers, boyfriends and husbands, victims of nationalism, of a mad man's desire for power, of a state that has demanded the soul of young men as payment for everything, and that has forced them and their families to pay the ultimate price for being born into the bottom place of a cynical pyramid of power. The Russians have committed terrible crimes, but it always happens in war. When young men are forced to kill, they are also forced to strangle humanity itself. That is the very premise. It's hard to kill outwards and stay loving and human inwards. Yet there is no doubt that, in the midst of the atrocities we have witnessed in Ukraine, it has been scenes that have reminded us of what happened on the front of Christmas Eve 1914. Ukrainian and Russian soldiers have met, and they have for a while felt, seen and understood quite clearly that they are victims of the cruel absurdity of war and that they, as individuals, have no conflicting interests and absolutely no reason to kill each other. There have been soldiers on both sides who have looked at those they have just shot, and have thought like Paul Bäumer: Why didn't they tell me that you were a bloody poor thing like myself? Forgive me, how could you be my enemy? The difference is that the Ukrainians fight, kill and die for a cause; the Russians fight, kill and die for no cause. In the Faroe Islands, the Red Cross has collected what, according to Danish conditions, amounts to 1 billion. kr. Into Ukraine. With full support for the first time, the national government has formally opened the borders of refugees who see Ukrainian faces in the street picture, in jobs and in schools. The support is total, everyone will help the victims of evil, the victims of the Russians, and it is fantastic with the unity of the whole West and military and humanitarian aid. Let us not forget now or in the future that the Russians are indeed victims. Imagine dying, losing your father, your boyfriend, your friend, your son for no cause. Imagine ending up as part of a number in a large statistic of Russian losses... a number that makes people all over the world happier, the bigger it is. Each dead soldier laughed and mourned in his very own way, he carried in him all the wealth and diversity that just a human life holds and which is not contained in the statistics. Let us try to remember it while what is needed is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211320	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kasper Roug for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211325	Thank you. I hope it is okay that I put a small question to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur also gives a good historical review of the horrors of war, one might say. There is no doubt that the best cure for war and strife is to experience it yourself. At any rate, you will soon be opposed to it, so to speak. However, I also think that perhaps the rapporteur could say that the Faroe Islands are part of a defence. The Faroe Islands are part of a defence. In other words, we are talking specifically about the presence of radar in the Faroe Islands, which, of course, there has been some discussion about for good reasons. Then my question to the rapporteur is: how does the rapporteur think we can ensure that there is support in the Faroe Islands? Is it possible to ensure that there is support in the Faroe Islands for the Faroe Islands to be part of this protection against strife?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211427	Thank you for the question. Now we had a very long general debate about the Commonwealth on Friday, and there I said that the fact that decisions and decision-making rights have been transferred from Denmark to the Faroe Islands in defence policy and foreign policy matters has meant that these issues have been dealt with in a completely different and more mature way than before. In the old days it has been possible to say that you wanted to be neutral, or you didn't want any radar, or you wanted one thing and the other, and it's been free. A bubble has been discussed outside the real world. This has had no consequences, because the decisions were taken in Denmark anyway. Now what has happened, which I think is very good, is that the decisions have been formally transferred to the Faroe Islands. I am sure you have the right to take the decisions there, which means that there is a great deal of maturity and political responsibility in the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211522	Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211523	Thank you. There is no doubt that the great opponent, at least as it is right now, and especially in the North Atlantic, is still our Russian Putin, who has been an aggressor in this case here. In relation to the interests of the Faroe Islands in particular, how does the rapporteur think it would be beneficial for the Faroe Islands to step closer to the European Union? I know that these are a few specific questions. However, these are at least some issues which I really think are quite exciting and which are quite important for the Faroese region in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211600	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said before that the more he got to know war, the more he became opposed to it. That is what he said in his first remark. It reminds a little of him who had been to church and heard them sing and came back and said, as he perceived it, the priest was almost opposed. Closer links with the European Union are very important, especially when it comes to access for our goods. The fact that we can sell processed goods to the EU market is extremely important. That is what is on the agenda at the moment. There is also a dialogue with the government on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211632	Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211634	Thanks for the speech. I know, of course, that the honourable Member often raises himself and gives some speeches which also contain some unusual questions, such rather quirky questions. I am not going to go into question the well-being of the honourable Member, but rather ask a question of a slightly more serious nature. After all, the Faroe Islands have not been as far ahead and, in the same way, imposed sanctions in relation to Russia, as some of the other European countries have, so I would just like to hear the rapporteur, the honourable Member, whether he will say a little about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211721	Thank you. In the case of Russia, 25% went. of the Faroese exports, as was said, to Russia last year. It's down to zero. So a very, very large proportion of its exports have been converted in a very short time at a high price. It's one thing you've done. Then it has been said that the EU will follow the line of sanctions against Russia. That is what has been done. Fishing vessels from Russia are still missing in Faroese ports, and that is because fishing vessels are not subject to the sanctions that the EU has put into effect. It has been said from the Faroese side that sanctions will be followed, but as is the case in Norway, which is in exactly the same situation, the fishing vessels are still in the ports because fish stocks in the North Atlantic are managed jointly with Russia. It is difficult to get out of a fisheries agreement that has been concluded, which lasts for a year. It is like with the gas you buy in Denmark, which is sent from Russia. It's hard to stop overnight.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211818	Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211819	Thank you for your answer. I have also noted that the Faroe Islands themselves have been out to say that when you are asking for a slightly harder line from the European Union, then you will also follow it. However, there is nothing to prevent the Faroe Islands from deciding to impose tougher sanctions if it is that they want to impose tougher sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211844	No, that's absolutely right. This is an example of the fact that defence policy and foreign policy agreements and decisions have actually moved to the Faroe Islands from Denmark. It is trade and fisheries, but it is actually defence policy and security policy. No, that is absolutely correct, as has been said. We could have stopped from day one. There has been a very hard and extensive discussion of these things in the Faroe Islands. My party wanted political law to stop exports to Russia. Now it has stopped anyway, not by law, but because companies have done so themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211915	Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523211916	Thank you for a very fine speech as always. I would say that the debate has now been very much about the situation in Ukraine and the sanctions, and that is also one of the things we have discussed in the Faroese Committee, on the one hand, at our meeting with the Faroese representation and, on the other hand, at our meeting with the Prime Minister. But I would really like to take up something else: of course, when we were with the Faroes Committee last time, we discussed the security policy situation, where I know that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale is very active. However, another matter that we also discussed was the criminal service in the Faroe Islands, which is of course an architectural one, one could almost say pearl with a beautiful view, but is an impractical place and not particularly suitable as a prison. At that time we were told that it was a very great wish from the Faroe Islands that something was done about it and would like to build a new prison. I found it difficult to understand what the criminal justice agreement actually contained in relation to the Dark Valley, and I do not know whether there has been any more light on the matter now or where it stands, and that is why my question to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale: What is the status of Dark Valley now? I think it would be a good idea to turn it around here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212022	Now I have to say, just as it is and now I am speaking both on my behalf and on behalf of Edmund Joensen that this is something we are disappointed about, so that we did not build a new prison, for example. We had some meetings with the government, but it didn't reach, and what we were hoping would happen didn't happen, and therefore the arrest in the Dark Valley is still gone both prison and detention it's not optimal. We wish there was money set aside for a prison. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212055	Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212057	I understand. I saw the conditions myself. But then there was an alternative solution that consisted of a renovation of the Dark Valley. Have the Faroe Islands had a renovation of the Dark Valley? After all, some of the buildings are currently being used and some are not being used, and then there are humidity problems in many of the buildings, as I understand it. Is there a renovation on the way to remedy the health challenges that exist with the buildings at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212121	Yes, it was set aside, I think it was 1 million. kr. for renovation, so it was done anyway. It wasn't from the top shelf or second shelf, but maybe from the middle shelf, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212135	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212137	Thank you. I had a conversation some time ago with a convict who had a good political proposal, on which I would like to hear the rapporteur's position. The proposal was that, in future, when there had been parliamentary elections in Denmark, the North Atlantic mandates should not choose for themselves who they would point to as prime minister, but they should support the prime minister who had received the most votes from the voters in Denmark. So, let us say that it stood 88 mandates for blue bloc and 87 mandates for red bloc, 3 North Atlantic mandates could not give power to a red prime minister, but should put the mandates in the basket with the prime minister candidate who had received the most votes from the Danes. I think that is an excellent proposal and I would just like to know what the rapporteur's position is on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212226	This is a discussion I have raised many times. I am a Social Democrat; I would like to support a Social Democratic Government through its formation and through a period of time as well. But I am also a democrat, and I would have a bad taste in my mouth if I did not give the majority of Denmark its will, that is that the losers of the election became the winners of power, because I came in from the North Atlantic and gave them the victory. It's a discussion I'd like to have. I think I have to point to a prime minister candidate before an election. It will, of course, be a social democratic candidate. Otherwise, of course, I should put my vote to auction after an election, and when I am a legislator in an assembly that does not legislate for my own constituents, and when I impose burdens on taxpayers who are not my own voters, I must be careful to say that I give my support to the one who gives me the most. And that's why it's a dilemma I'm facing. I would like to have a big discussion on this. If there were agreement among all that the North Atlantics point to those who win in Denmark, it would certainly be worth a discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212334	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212336	I think we are a little in the same place that it would be a shame if the voters in Denmark had chosen a certain political bloc and it was the North Atlantic mandates that made the loser a winner. But I also think that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale may well be the first domino brick to overturn itself and cause the others to fall by saying that at the next election Mr. Sjúrður Skaale put his mandate in the bowl with the block that has received most votes in Denmark, and then you have to see if the other North Atlantic mandates follow. Could that be a way forward? In any case, I think that is a good democratic idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212411	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212412	Formally, I have the same rights as all other Members. I am doing with my mandate as I will. It is, of course, something that is decided by my party. However, as I said, the starting point is that of course I support a social democratic government, because that is the position I support. But it's a discussion I'd like to take, actually it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212437	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212439	This is an interesting discussion, as Mr. Alex Vanopslagh travels and great respect for it. I don't agree. If we want to take the Kingdom community seriously, then of course we must also take the parliamentary mandates from the Faroe Islands and Greenland seriously. Cows and Greenlanders are Danish citizens, and they have as much right to choose the Prime Minister they want as we do. If you suddenly have to make the Faroese and Greenlandic mandates something special, we do not take the Kingdom community seriously, and I would be terribly sorry for that. For me, it is very crucial that the Faroese and Greenlanders can choose exactly the Prime Minister they want. Their mandates are worth just as much as those of our others. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212540	Formally: Hundred percent of course, of course. But formally, legally, we are nothing special, but politically, I have to say, we are something special. We are legislators in a parliament that does not legislate for our own voters. We place burdens on some citizens who do not affect our own voters, because there is a tax system in the Faroe Islands, there is a parliament in the Faroe Islands, there is a system up there that means that we are elected into the Folketing on quite different terms than all the others. That is why there is a political difference. It is a fundamental principle that voters and taxpayers are the same, so that if there is too much burden on taxpayers, they can punish you as voters. That is the mechanism that is not applicable in our case • that is just the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212630	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212631	But is it not true that the Prime Minister, who is to lead Denmark, will also have consequences for the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which is why it is quite natural that the Greenlandic and Faroese mandates also help to point out the Prime Minister and the Danish Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212653	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212655	Absolutely correct, that's the way it is. It is not knife-cut; it is not that it has nothing to do with each other. They're connected vessels. And I have praised the current government on many occasions for being very accommodating, for putting the decisions really into the sphere of the islands themselves, even if they could be formally taken, in order to allow the Faroese system to be heard. A new body will be set up to share information on security policy and defence policy, etc. This is a great step forward, which means that the Faroe Islands will be much more involved in this field, so... the President will finish the sentence at last). This means that I support the current government because it has taken some initiatives which I think are very good. If another government had not done so, I would be skeptical about the fact that it is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212742	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are no more brief comments. And I've been called in by a privateist. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523212759	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to be frank and say that for many of the years I have been here in the Folketing and have followed our graduation debates, and also opening debates, it is sometimes annoying when privateists come in, because you sit and wait for all the best at the end, and that is, of course, the Prime Minister's speech. So I'm such a kind of warm-up to the PM I had thought about bringing the accordion, but I don't want to break the good mood here so late in the day. But I would like to say a few words about the recovery times in Denmark and in Danish politics. It is, after all, a turning-point in relation to the political picture. I am an example of this myself. For better or for worse, it has to be said that the political picture here in Denmark is constantly changing, and it happens in such a way that there are non-attached Members and new parties and all sorts of other things. And you have to get used to that. It's part of the recovery times. But I know from our officers here at Christiansborg that it has been more difficult than otherwise with these overview maps of the composition of the Danish Parliament that they have, and where they then usually make a sprit tuck down to where one has moved a little. Now it's simply abandoned there was no room for any more sprittusch markings, and it looks like some Picassomalry that no one can find around in anyway. But that's the way it is. What I want to take as my starting point in my few minutes here today is what the working community is like here at Christiansborg, and it is in a very good way where we have a dialogue across the board. But we also have something called the working community geese and gasses. And some of you may have wondered where such words come from. There are wild geese and domestic geese, and we're probably part of those wild geese right now. However, we would like to make a difference in relation to the picture which, among other things, we have. The extra magazine has drawn the sign that these people running from the square are not doing their job, and they've been running around in here looking for us. That's fine, of course, but I just want to point out that we're here and we're alive. We have actually worked with policy development in our working community. We have tabled motions for resolutions and we have made an active and committed commitment to political work. No later than this week of the health reform, when Mrs Liselott Blixt, on behalf of these six non-attached Members, helped to reach a very good agreement. We have come up with ideas about foreigners, transport, health and the elderly, and also in the field of disability, which I think you may have a feeling in some places should also fill something more here at Christiansborg. On the whole, some of the local, close things should actually fill up more. Does the daily life of our citizens fill Christiansborg? This is the kind of question we should ask ourselves once in a while. Has politics come closer to the citizens, or has it become more secondary? We should also do some regular mid-term studies of this kind and say: 'Well, it is actually going the wrong way'. I will try to read out something that I got from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, and it is from one of those who follow her at Christiansborg in relation to disability policy. It is one called Team William, who is one of the many disabled people in Denmark who are in a wheelchair and get help, and he has then written on Facebook here today: I have set myself up to listen to Parliament's final debate. I am waiting for them to say something about people with disabilities and for their lives to be taken seriously with the right help. Then, unfortunately, there is a picture where he has fallen asleep; his helper has taken a picture where he sits and sleeps. And then he writes: But now I'm awake again and listening. It was then Team William, and I certainly hope that Team William gets some recognition for it, because then he has got a little bit of involvement in a relatively long graduation debate here in the Danish Parliament, where we get a long way around. A lot of good topics are being debated, but they are also some things that have been skated over it, and our hope is that the local things, the close things, can fill up a little more. It is a pity, then, that when we focus on the need to have room for everyone, the Social Democrats say: space for everyone who wants to go there is obviously also room for some who do not want to. Well, we have one-legged pirates from Somalia. They're coming up here too. We have many criminally deported deeply criminal aliens. They are also allowed to stay here, and we have a lot of people staying here, and indeed they are allowed to stay here. On the whole, Denmark is really, really spacious, and I actually think we are too spacious, and therefore my hope is that we can change it a little by getting the near things closer and the distant things farther away. Thank you for the floor. Is there anything about a statement? ) Then there is something about a statement, and I have forgotten all about that, but the President has got that under control. It is true that we have a proposal for adoption, which we naturally expect the government to support now I have praised the government. It's on behalf of these six non-attached Members outside the groups, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG) and Mrs Marie Krarup (UFG), that I make the following statement: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with concern that the foreign policy situation has made it more expensive to be a Dane. The Folketing expresses concern that the service in our welfare society is deteriorating, so that as a society we cannot help those who most need help, such as our elderly, people with physical and mental illness. The Danish Parliament stresses the importance of strict foreign policy so that high Danish services do not attract migrants. If you come to Denmark, you must support yourself, respect Danish culture and comply with the country's legislation. The Danish Parliament has a high regard for Danish self-determination; none over or beside the Folketing. The Folketing stresses the importance of pursuing a responsible economic policy, which also provides a good framework for our business community, which is the guarantor of creating jobs for the ordinary Dane. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523213434	Thank you to Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no brief comments and, as no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, we will return to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523213452	Now with the heating band, and it wasn't so bad at all, I would say. First of all, thank you all for a good debate. Before we started a number of hours ago, but not as many as expected, the commentators had predicted that the debate would be sharp and aggressive, now the political differences really had to be drawn up, after all, it is the final debate in the Folketing before elections again have to take place. But how did it go? Yes, the first time, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen asked questions of the new political rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, he called for a hug, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen had just been delighted to have had a hug, a green one of the kind, and one must understand that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has been a little saddened to no longer get so many huggers from the government, and that is quite understandable when you see what kind of hugging it is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Søren Pape Poulsen, for example, is given by Mrs Pernille Vermund or, for that matter, by Mrs Inger Løjberg. Civic lady looking for leader, it sounded the other day, and those were hard words. Mrs Inger Løjberg explained that as a citizen she can choose between someone who is such a little half-timer I do not know how the Radicals take it up or one who blows down as soon as it blows. Those are the hard words that are being said. I had to understand, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that you've really got a lot of good hours together in blue block, right until you, like mr. Morten Messerschmidt said, actually starts discussing politics. However, as Mrs Mai Villadsen later made clear, one does not necessarily have to be happy in a marriage just because there is no better alternative, and I hope that Mrs May Villadsen's boyfriend did not listen to that speech. And that's why, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen and other citizens who could use a hug, I would like to give a hug, and fortunately we can, because Denmark has done so well through the corona crisis. So with a small rewrite of the Danish Health Authority's recommendation during the pandemic: Khmmere is good, huggers are healthy, and the government is in favour of hugs. And here I am thinking that it may be that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen will be my new hugging bear. That was an excellent speech, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen lasted tonight. In fact, it was better than the other graduation speeches we have heard when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. Søren Brostrøm said during the corona about hugs that, as with any contact between humans, there is a risk of infection. And what are we risking when we turn to each other in broad cooperation? Yes, we risk not getting exactly what we would like ourselves to have. We risk it not always going fast and fast, we risk criticism from them and from some of you who are always standing on the sidelines and just shouting loudly. But we also get something in return when we bow down to each other. We get the opportunity to learn more about each other and about each other's views, discover that there are always more nuances than what our eyes may see themselves, that the world is never only black or white, and that there rarely are any easy solutions to the challenges that land on exactly our table. Today it is the final debate during this parliamentary period, and when I look back, I will be particularly pleased and proud of what we have achieved together. It is in crises that a society shows what substance it is made of, and Denmark and we are made of something special. We have shown in here that we can stand together when it comes to dealing with corona, a worldwide pandemic, the green transition, historically great decisions in relation to climate and now to a war on our own continent, and we have not just stood together to look after Denmark. We have also managed to strengthen Denmark and show that politics is useful. There is not a party with which we can do everything together, but there are many parties with which we can do a great deal. That is what Social Democracy said before the elections, and the results we have achieved over the last three years had not been achieved without you. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank all the parties in this Chamber for their cooperation, for the broad political agreements that have made Denmark stronger, greener and more coherent. It's actually pretty well done. All in all, we have made more than 300 large and small political agreements over the last three years, nine out of ten are broad agreements across the middle of nine out of ten and we have sealed the broad cooperation with the great national compromise on Denmark's security policy. Don't tell me that Danish politics is primarily marked by conflict and bloc. That's not true. It has been a pleasure to work with all of you, and I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the four North Atlantic members, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Mr. Sjúrður Skaale and of course also a special thanks to Mr Skaale. Edmund Joensen, who with all the completely deserved praises both for the efforts in the Faroe Islands and in the Danish people's government, was quite considering becoming a moment in Danish politics, one had to understand. It reminds me of something, the former Prime Minister, sir. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen told me when I took over the leadership of Social Democracy. He said there's one thing you can look forward to, and it's the funeral that they all love you. I now have no plan to go that way, but tonight I will just be delighted that those who have been erupted by the Danish People's Party are alive. That is what was said from the platform, and we are delighted about that, and thank you for taking this opportunity to remind us of something that one might need to be reminded of after 12 hours in this Chamber, namely that the most important thing is the people sitting out on the other side, and when they fall asleep during our debate, we have not done our work well enough. We share our views. That is a democracy, and a theme in which we in the Folketing, it must be said, divide us by opinion is in relation to the right to an early retirement pension. For many years, speaking about the disability area, there was a community group that was in some way consistently under the radar of the public conversation. We just didn't hear about them... the concreteworker from Slagelse, a worn-out sosu in Vejle, the fitter from Struer... they were gone. They were away from the public debate in Denmark, not because there wasn't much else that filled it, but that group of people was just gone, hard-working Danes who have literally put their backs on the Danish labour market quite a lot since they were young and who, in a figuratively sense, have also put their backs on it when the post-retirement was de facto abolished. It was not fair, and we are the ones who set out to change that injustice. I've heard sir. Søren Pape Poulsen here in Parliament tells the unskilled and skilled workers in Denmark with more than 40 years' seniority in the labour market that it is for others' money that they must have a worthy withdrawal. I hardly have words for a sentence said that way, and excuse me, we are talking about the people who day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, decade after decade have gone to work and have taken care of their work and paid their taxes and now have to get something in return from the rest of us. You have the right to a dignified withdrawal. They have that right now, but how long? How long does it stand for believers? At least I listened when Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen said something earlier about the fact that it was not born in the backyard of the Left, and we know that, but afterwards it is an expression of a worker's romantic introduction to hard work. Those are the words that were said. Is this really the message that needs to be sent to the people this is about? Once they were under the radar, they came on the political agenda, respect for them I hope they will be after the next elections, but today's debate has worried me. People who have worked and dragged their way through a lifetime can today look forward to a small justice... a little justice in having a few good years of retirement after more than 40 years in the labour market. I believe, with the words spoken today, that the forthcoming parliamentary election campaign will be a form of referendum on the right to a dignified withdrawal. It has also been very exciting to hear how committed blue politicians and parties have now become in the discussion of inequality, and to hear that care in relation to inequality is similar to the care that has been shown in relation to my podcast on Twitter. You should be welcome, it should not be what we invite you into a universe where the rest of us have been for decades and, for some, actually for centuries. I also feel in today's debate that Mrs Mai Villadsen says she is not a Ginifundamentalist. I am certainly not, and there are many good reasons for this. Imagine the abolition of the spouse's payoff for pensioners in a purely technical and mathematical sense, increasing inequality. It shows how artificial the discussion is. On the other hand, I am fully in favour of increasing equality in society when we draw people from cash benefits into the labour market, and that is exactly what is happening in these years. Today, too, from the Left, we have received criticism of having introduced taxes on, among others, the United Kingdom. tobacco and packaging, but that is what taxes are all about: making Denmark not only healthier, not only fairer, but also greener. Taxes on tobacco strengthen the health of the Danes. I was initially against it, but I have to admit that it has had an effect. The hope is that fewer young people start smoking and that fewer Danes are affected, for example. lung cancer, which is dangerous. When we have asked the financial sector to make a contribution to society, it is, among other things, the case. to ensure that those who have had the hardest jobs can retire. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen mentioned, as an example of an increase in taxes, that we have tripled the packing charges on carrier bags and one-off services, but why have we done so? We do because we want to look after our planet because we want to look after our nature because we want to look after our oceans because we want to look after the next generations because plastic in the oceans destroys our planet. That is why I have to ask this question this evening: if we are now criticising the two tax increases, does that mean that the Liberals are voting for a reduction in the excise duty on cigarettes? Or is the packaging tax removed, which helps to ensure that more plastic is used in a sensible way? I really think the Danes should have an answer to that question. It can then be said that today's debate has also forgotten to say that we have also relaxed the tax for the individual Dane. We have increased the employment allowance, and we have reduced the ordinary electricity tax and the electric heating tax for both households and companies, so it is, as always, more nuanced than it has sounded today. We have just reached a broad agreement on health. I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in that we are far from finished yet. From today's debate, however, it remains to be seen that we need both new solutions and new action, especially in psychiatry. There are too many Danes today who are hurting in life. There are challenges in psychiatry and we need to do more for people with psychiatric disorders. We're on it. Under this government 600 million have been set aside. kr. annual to psychiatry, including: for more beds, more staff and a better court psychiatry. We are now going to start a 10-year plan for psychiatry, as we have agreed with the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten in the understanding paper. We need to look at strengthening treatment, reducing waiting times and reducing the number of re-hospitals. That is important, but at the same time there is something else that is important, and that is that we take action earlier. I am painfully aware that a number of mental disorders cannot be prevented, but I also believe that everyone knows that there is something that we can prevent. It's not just about more money and about treatment. It's about prevention. As Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said in her speech earlier today, we need to look at how we do away with distrust among our children and young people. Because there are too many children and young people who are not well, and we know them ourselves. I also have young people very close to me and have seen lots of examples of young people for whom life so far ran, who have been in education, were well liked and had friends, but suddenly one day life becomes too incalculable, they get dark, sad thoughts, the horizon overturns, and suddenly a young person goes from living to being a patient. I have said earlier and I still believe that we can prevent more if we take action in all the areas relating to the individual, in order to create a better resilience, in order to create better relations. I have also noticed that some have interpreted my words in such a way that you can treat mental illness with going to scouts. Nothing could be farther from me than neglecting the seriousness of psychiatric disorders. So let me be clear: people with mental disorders must, of course, receive the necessary treatment. There must be no doubt about that. I just hope that there will be room for the second discussion as well. I believe we have an important task as a society in dressing our children and young people to master the life that has not become easier, adversity and challenges. We adults need to be able to see if the pressure on children and young people has become too great. Has there been pressure that you should be the best all the time not just for anything but for everything? Have we established ourselves as a community, so childhood has become too short? In other words, we need to have a 10-year plan for psychiatry and, in my view, we should also have a broader debate on some general trends in our society. We should be able to pass on that without polarising the debate. If anything else has thrown off much debate today, it is the distribution of pupils in the country's high schools. I have to admit, I'm wondering. If anyone in this Chamber is of the opinion that there is a free choice of high school today, then they are wrong. Allow me therefore to say that I do not think we are wrong, because I do not think that we have been sitting in the Folketing for so many years without knowing that today there is no complete freedom of choice in high school. Today, about nine out of ten young people get their first priority when choosing high school. This will also be the case with the agreement that has been reached today, which has been made together with the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the SF and the Christian Democrats. So it is not a question of whether there should be free choice and free admission or not. But this agreement will help to ensure a broader composition of the pupils so that we can stem the polarisation, both socially, geographically and ethnically, which we are unfortunately seeing increasingly. That is why, of course, it is also important to focus on the secondary schools in the outermost regions. Because we know very well in this Chamber that if all the small colleges close if there is no access to upper secondary education throughout the country, then we do not have a Denmark where you can live and live in all parts of the country. We are of the opinion that it must also be possible to get a Baccalaureate outside the big cities, and also outside the smaller cities, and this agreement will help to ensure that. We are faced with an important referendum next week: should Denmark be fully involved in European cooperation on security and defence with the other countries of the European Union, including Sweden and Finland, or should we be left alone with a reservation as the only EU country? For me, there are many good reasons for voting yes. Firstly, if we vote 'yes', we will show that Denmark stands with Europe at a time when war has haunted our continent. Putin wants to divide the West with the invasion of Ukraine, but the opposite has happened. Today, the West is more united than ever before. I hope we can confirm this on 1 June. Secondly, if we vote 'yes', we will join in cooperation which will only be more important for Europe and for us in the years to come. For the United States is oriented towards other parts of the world, and they will do so increasingly. The Americans also expect us to deal more with our own security challenges. I guess that's a fair expectation, isn't it? Thirdly, if we vote 'yes', Denmark will have more influence than we have today on ensuring peace and peaceful development. We have access to benefits, for example. in the cyber area, which I think everyone in here is afraid is really becoming an ever greater challenge for our society. Then I know that some people are saying that we already have NATO. Yeah, thank God. NATO is by no means the most important security policy institution for the West and for Denmark, and in this sense it is uplifting and indeed historic that Sweden and Finland have just applied for membership of NATO. However, cooperation in security and defence policy in the European Union is not an alternative to NATO, it is a complement. Our good and close neighbours in Sweden and Finland are already fully involved in the EU's security and defence policy. Now they also hope to have the opportunity to join NATO. Denmark is already part of NATO, and now we also hope to have the opportunity to participate in European security and defence policy cooperation. That is why I hope that the Danes will vote 'yes' when we go to the ballot boxes next week. I find that in recent years we have moved even closer together in the Kingdom community. Earlier this year, as has also been mentioned in the debate, I gave an official apology to the 22 Greenlandic children who were sent back to Denmark in the early 1950s. The story of the Greenlandic children hides a larger story, which also deserves to be told about our common history and our common past. In Denmark we like to tell each other that the colonization of Greenland was different from what was experienced elsewhere. Instead of violence and weapons, we met Greenland with a desire for exchange and progress. That's what the Danes tell each other. But in that story too, we've probably been a little too sloppy. We thought we knew better about Greenland and the Greenlanders, and it's wrong. We know that we cannot change the past, but we can do something else: we can face it. I think it is necessary to face it in order for us to set a real new direction for our future. I believe this is necessary for a modern and equal kingdom. Soon I will be visiting the Faroe Islands myself, which this year will host the meeting and also host the first meeting of the new Foreign, Security and Defence Policy Contact Committee, a committee that works at government level and which is our new enhanced cooperation on defence and security. Finally, a few words on a completely different matter: it is also insinuated today in the debate that the government is politically pursuing an opposition politician. In that debate, it seems that the Minister for Justice does not care what has been said on several occasions, namely that the government has not taken part in the decision that charges were being made against former Minister for Defence, Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, or in the Attorney General's decision to suspend the indictment. Yet it is insinuated, contrary to the truth, that it is different, without any evidence. I have to say, it really annoys me. We may be from different parties, and I know that the fight for so-called power will be intensified now. But we are also colleagues and there must be limits to what we say about each other and about what we share, namely the authorities. The fact that it is the Minister of Justice who decides whether to prosecute in cases of state security on the basis of a recommendation from the Attorney General is not something this government has come up with. It's in the penal code. This has been the case, even under previous governments. But no one can be served by feeding undocumented theories, which risk undermining confidence in the police and the prosecution. That is why I believe that the course we have been through gives us reason to consider whether there should continue to be a special system of indictment for the Minister of Justice in these cases. The Minister for Justice has now asked his officials to consider this, and the Minister for Justice will discuss it with the parties of the Folketing. Respect for the pillars of society is our collective responsibility. That is our common commitment. Thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523215809	Thank you. Now there is an hour for brief remarks. And the first to speak is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523215817	Thank you. And thank the PM for his line here. Before the Prime Minister was given government responsibility, there were governments in charge of economic policy. There were, of course, governments led by the Left, but also social-democratic-led governments that made reforms that made Denmark more prosperous. After the Prime Minister has been given government responsibility, it's stopped. Virtually all income groups have become poorer by government policy, and the government has missed every opportunity to make Denmark lastingly richer. And it's very irresponsible. In fact, as if that were not enough, the government has also increased inequality, even though the understanding paper says that it wants to combat the rising inequality. And it is especially the poorest in our society that has been hit hardest by government policy. So I just want to ask the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister recognises that government policy has contributed to an increase in inequality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523215926	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523215927	Fortunately, what is being said is not right at least not all of what is being said. Firstly, it is quite true that reforms over the past many years have helped to strengthen the Danish economy. That's why we've made them across the political middle, by the way. The welfare settlement is the crucial engine in the sustainability of Danish economy. So we have a long and proud tradition of making reforms across the middle, across the changing political majority. Secondly, how did the last reform negotiated here in the Danish Parliament really go? It should both help strengthen the Danish economy structurally, bring more people into employment, strengthen our GDP and help the employers who are currently in need of foreign labour. We started the negotiations well and the result is, in fact, good, but we do not have the Left at that table. After all, we do not have the Left to take responsibility for the reforms that will have to be made during this parliamentary term. After the summer, we will present a 2030 plan. Then there will be new proposals for reforms, and here I hope the Left will take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220036	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220037	We are always happy to take responsibility. In his list, the Prime Minister forgot the massive gifts to the trade union movement, which was the entry ticket to participate in the negotiations. The Danes are currently experiencing the biggest price increases in about 40 years. There is insecurity about the private economy and doubts about whether you can go on a summer holiday at all this year. And this is because we are a small country and an open economy. We are very affected by the economy around us, and there is not much that neither the government nor the Folketing can do about that. But the truth is that it has become more expensive to be a Dane because of government policy. The government has raised taxes in this country more than 40 times for more than 10 billion. kr. So I just want to ask the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister acknowledges that the government's policy has made it more expensive to be a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220131	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220132	Can't I first appeal to one thing? For many, many decades, even more than that, we have agreed that we would continue the Danish labour market model. It is not because we are Liberals or Conservatives or Radicals or Social Democrats, but because we know that a society with a high degree of organisation provides some good agreements to ensure stability in our country. So when you stand today and I think that the unnecessary provocative talk about gifts to the trade union movement, you could also see it from another side, namely that we have to take a political responsibility to ensure that we still have a trade union movement that has a high degree of support from the Danes, so that we continue to have a well-organised Danish labour market. Yes, there are some taxes that have been raised; others have been lowered. I have not yet received an answer as to whether we really want to move the tax on cigarettes again, because that is one of the taxes we have raised. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220231	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220235	I will begin by giving an answer to what the Prime Minister picked up in his speech about Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen's indictment and Parliament's treatment of it. I think it would be wise for the Minister of Justice to look into whether, as far as the Attorney General is concerned, it is really necessary to create even more arm's-length in relation to the government. I think that sounds like a good solution to an unpleasant situation we have come into. I think it is sad that the Folketing has ended up where it does not wish to waive immunity in order to actually ensure that Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen the opportunity to be cleansed or convicted. After all, we must not deal with the issue of guilt; we must deal only with whether or not charges should be made. But now it's where we are, and that's why I just want to start by saying that SF thinks it sounds like a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220335	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220336	Well, it is quite true that the Danish Parliament does not relate to the issue of guilt. We have a division of power, and I would strongly urge that we stand guard over it. It is one of the fundamental principles of our legal society. And I have to say that we can make politics out of a lot, but there should also be questions that we do not make politics out of. And the fact that there is a fundamental trust in this House in the pillars of society, I believe that is actually crucial to whether we have a well-functioning democracy, including, of course, respect for the Attorney General and respect for the Danish police and also confidence in the institutions. Now I think the Minister for Justice must have a discussion with the parties of the Danish Parliament. I know this question has not caused any problems in the past. As I said before, it is not something this government has come up with; it is in the penal code. But we are obviously living in a new age, and the Folketing must then take stock of that in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220439	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220441	Yes, we are living in a new time, and I would say that what we have experienced in the Danish Parliament and also, I think, in one of the speeches in the Parliamentary Chamber suggests a trumpification of Danish politics. The fact that we can talk about political persecution in Denmark seems to me to be grotesque in reality in some dimensions I had never imagined. I never imagined that we would have a discussion in the Danish Parliament, which was at that level, rather than really having to deal with the fact that the Attorney General is therefore a supporting institution, an authority, some to which we must listen, and which must also comply with the Code of Procedure. I did not intend to talk about this at all in my last remark, but the fact that the government is considering what the consequences must be, I think is actually positive and we are prepared to take part in a discussion on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220529	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220530	Well, I think that's positive. After all, it is rare to be allowed to spend so many hours directly in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I can hear that the concern of the chairman of the SF is shared by quite a lot of colleagues, by the way across the political spectrum, even though it may not be said in public.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220550	The next brief remark is to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220554	Thank you. Thank you for a fine speech earlier, which also appeared in Europe and the world. I thought that was really good. Thank you also for a fine line and a recognition and recognition of Denmark's past in the Kingdom Community. I thought that was very appropriate. And also thank you for what the Prime Minister is now proposing, namely looking forward to the separation of the role of the Minister for Justice as Head of Administration in this context, and that, on the basis of what is happening, we need to look at it. We want to take part in this and I want to say that this is something that the Radical Left has actually wanted through many different periods and colours of government. I will move on to the specific question. Once again, I would like to turn to this brand new gas pipeline for Lolland, which a number of parties have decided to set up. We are faced with so many things in a new situation, and new calculations have also been made. Doesn't the PM think it could be possible to look at it again?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220707	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220709	First of all, I would like to say that it is painful to listen to some of what has been said in the debate, especially when, for decades, one has had a very special relationship with the fellow Member who is on the other side and who has been the subject of the debate, and therefore can clearly deny that there is any political motive whatsoever. Nothing could be farther from me. I would also like to say directly that I find it painful to observe the mistrust of the authorities expressed directly or indirectly. I would also like to say, following on from the words of Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, that we in this House must be very aware of the responsibility we bear in relation to the pillars of society. In relation to the gas pipeline, I am not quite sure if I am an expert on the issue. I know that it is important that we maintain jobs in Denmark, and I think that is the objective. I also understand that it does not mean that electrification is necessarily the best offer, and then it has to be about ensuring that there will be green gas, because we agree that we have to get out of natural gas as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220819	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220821	Thank you. I agree that it is absolutely essential to establish and restore confidence in our authorities. It is the foundation of a large part of our democracy that it is existing, so we must do everything we can to work towards that. It's also about there being new calculations on this gas pipeline that show that electrification is actually an option, and I'd like that tested. Because I think it is quite important to be independent of natural gas. We are then in agreement on that and we have decided on it, but it is also important to look at what we are using the biogas for, because there are other companies that are going to need it to such an extent that it cannot get out of it. So if there are other options than the gas pipeline to Lolland and I think that's where we're going, can we set it up? We will also need the labour force now and here for other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220913	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220915	Yes, if we agree that we will find a solution, then it would be strange to stand and say that we should not uncover whether there are other options. I think we should take a look at that. I would also like to thank you for the words about our colonial history. I would say that we actually have the opportunity to influence the international discussion in this area too, because all former colonial powers and countries that have previously been colonised are in the same discussion, and I think that we in the Kingdom community, because we have so quickly had equal and respectful cooperation ■ and if we dare to look the past into the face and acknowledge what did not go well, will be able to form a school for a discussion that is difficult all over the globe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523220957	The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221001	Thank you. And thanks to the Prime Minister for the speech. I would like to start by signing off on the government's thinking about the role of the Attorney General. There should be no doubt that we in the Enhedslist are always willing to look at discussions on how we can strengthen legal certainty and, of course, democracy in general, because that is something that is of great concern to us. And that also leads to questions, because it is also absolutely crucial that when we put a question to the vote among the people, we owe it to both democracy and the people that we are precise about what we are asking them to take a position on. I would therefore just like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that the reservation of defence has no significance in relation to the territorial defence of Denmark; that the reservation of defence has no significance in relation to the efforts we have been able to make in helping the Ukrainian Government's legitimate resistance to the Russian aggressor; that it has had no significance in relation to the sanctions we have been able to impose on Russia, and that therefore it is not the subject of the referendum to be held here on 1 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221106	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221107	So, if you look at the defence of the territory of Denmark, our kingdom, it is a national matter, and then it is very much connected with our NATO membership of the musketeen, Article 5. I do not entirely agree with Ukraine, of course, in relation to the current situation. So, the fact that we in Denmark have decided to donate weapons to help Ukrainians and have imposed sanctions is driving in the European Union, for example, but under a different regime. But one can imagine, when Ukraine, hopefully, has won this conflict, that we will need a peacekeeping effort, a stabilisation effort in and by Ukraine. My bid is, in fact, that it will be the European Union that will be asked to undertake that task. And it may be, if we have a reservation after 1 June, that we will not be able to participate in that work. I think that is a pity, as I would say, that with our experience we will also be able to play a positive role in the Balkans, where, unfortunately, there seems to be a possibility of further conflict. We cannot be there today because of our reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221208	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221209	Well, what worries me is when this discussion turns into something like that... what if discussions. Because that's what you can also see as scare pictures or as scenarios that we don't know about are going to happen. So perhaps the Prime Minister could be a little more specific in relation to the actions that are under way. So, what are the concrete actions that the government believes we should abolish the defence reserve in order to contribute to? For there is, of course, a worrying clue to human rights violations and to the fact that there has been a focus on having an interest in protecting the EU's trade and resource interests in Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221245	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221246	Of course, there is a desire to protect free world trade. Well, if we don't, there'll be famine in Africa. After all, we need to be able to trade with each other. We are a great maritime nation and all continents, all countries, have a great import of food in order to feed their peoples. So it can be said that having an eye to ensure that food gets there could also be emergency aid, for example in the Gulf of Aden over at Somalia is a perfectly legitimate wish and view. Well, security is a lot of things. However, in order to respond specifically to the question, where I would like Denmark to be here and now is in Bosnia to help stabilise the Balkans so that there is no new conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221334	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221337	Thank you. Let's just take this Arnepension, where the Prime Minister is very upset about the remarks I have made to it. Well, the only reason you can't get it is if you're worn out in any way. And I fully understand that it sounds really popular to say that people have been working for so many years, and now they must have a special opportunity to retire. But what's next? Is this a general reduction in the retirement age? Or what does the Prime Minister want? In fact, I think that you are sending a really bad signal to all the young people we would like to have to take a vocational training course, because what you are saying to them is: if you take it, you are waiting for a completely unreasonable life; you are being worn out and you have to retire early. First of all, you could look at what those jobs are like today, but there is also the possibility that people change jobs through life • you have crawled on roofs as a carpenter at a certain time in your life, then you might become a janitor at a school, and then you do other things. It doesn't have to be that what you're trained as, you have to be partout for the rest of your life. So I simply do not recognise the premise that if you have just been x years on the labour market, it is unworthy if you cannot withdraw earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221449	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221450	The fact that one must be able to change subjects and course of life, even at a time when one reaches a certain age, I fully agree. And it's just before I almost want to guarantee that if you have the chance at all, most will choose it. For the performance of the early retirement comes nowhere near what you can earn if you change courses if you have the opportunity. So my best bet is that if physics is there, if the pain has not taken over already, and if you are not worn out, even if you have had many years in the labour market, then most Danes would much rather switch subjects to something less burdensome than going on a relatively low level of benefit, at least in relation to the wages you can receive on the Danish labour market. By the way, it's the other way around what Mr. I think Søren Pape Poulsen has been told it is precisely because we have a high retirement age, which is going to be increasing, as we live longer, that we need a dignified retirement. Otherwise, we would draw our labour market far too badly in favour of those Danes who do not have the hardest jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221549	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221551	What is funny when you speak pension is often that we are discussing the challenges of the future through today's eyes. A number of years ago, the retirement age was reduced from 67 to 65 years, and then you go that way again now. And you make it sound like you're finally retiring when you're way up in the '70s and '80s. That's not the case, but it's the talk you want to have in the population, so like saying to them: this is gonna be very violent; you're gonna get worn out, and then the dear Social Democracy comes along and takes care of all of you. But we also need to have an honest discussion that money can only be spent once. And the last time I checked, paying taxes wasn't a savings scheme that you had for certain things, because then there are some people in this society who are going to have a really hard time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221640	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221642	Well, first hug and then now, dear Social Democratic Party. It's gonna run out of hand today, but it's good that things are moving in the right direction, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. I therefore agree with the first thing that has been said, namely that there is no reason today in the Folketing to set up the pension schemes that we will have in our society in 40 years' time. We don't know how the Danes feel at the time. And yes, fortunately, there is quite a lot going on in our labour market. I myself come out of a family with many unskilled and skilled workers, and the wear and tear on the labour market 40, 50, 70 years ago was of another caliber. But there are still some jobs that are harder than others, and some of those we are talking about today, who are entitled to Arnepension, entered the labour market in the year I was born, perhaps even earlier. And then there was no mention of the working environment yet, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221736	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221739	I had actually decided today alone to speak about the defence reserve, because I would then be the only one who did so. However, there are three things in the Prime Minister's speech that I have to comment on, and that is why I differ from my original plan. Firstly, I do not sense that there is anyone in this Parliament who, as the Prime Minister suggests, has mistrust of the Attorney General. When we vote no to repeal Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen's immunity is clear because of distrust in the government's handling of this case. Secondly, it is wrong when the Prime Minister says that we will not do anything about mental illness. You are very welcome to invite us to the negotiations. Thirdly, with regard to the whole of this insinuation, because the Left and the Conservatives are questioning Arnepension, it should be in play that this is not the case. I can tell the Prime Minister that the Danish People's Party stands a hundred percent at the goal of that agreement. We're not just happy with it, we're proud of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221838	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221840	See, that was good. That was really, really good. And I get it. I'm not only happy with this deal, I'm proud of it too. And I think that the pride we may both experience here is, of course, because it was a bit uphill, including in the political debate, to put these people on the agenda, because it is as if they are disappearing. I do not know how many times the word'secondary' has been spoken here today, while the vocational schools have barely been mentioned. There are just some differences in where the focus is in the political debate, so I share that pride. Allow me to be so pleased with the words that I conclude that DF will not in any way depart from the agreement that has been made. I'm very, very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221932	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523221934	I do not know how that doubt should arise. My dad's a graduate. I'm the first academic in, I think, eight generations or something. And I remember when I was a kid, and he came home from work, he was hurting his body. The thing about lying on your knees and arms and working, both when the sun bakes, and when the frost bites, is something that wears out. That's why I think it's a good deal we've made. It may not be a perfect deal, but it is a good deal, and it is better than what was before, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party do not relax on it • not a millimeter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222005	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222006	That's where politics can be magical. Although we are different parties and, for some, we also place ourselves on opposite sides of the political centre, there may still be things we are united about. And I kind of agree with the characterism. I'm not saying it's a perfect deal, and yes, they also have their corners where you might want it to be better, but that doesn't change the fact that for some of those who have worked the hardest and done what they had to do, and for now to stay in a language that everyone can relate to who have earned their military service for our country and perhaps even done so in such a way that the body can no longer do anymore, there has just been a dignity and a calm, and they deserved it. So I want to say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222047	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222050	Thank you so much. Trust is something to earn, and a society must know how it treats the most vulnerable in society. When you look at the cases that have emerged from Langeland in terms of placements; when you look at the massive amount of mistakes that are made in the area of disability, where you actually see a huge slip in legal certainty; when you see a family justice system where people lose their children on the basis of other people's lies; and when we see some job centres that whip sick, exposed and worn-out people around in a completely inhuman system, how does the Prime Minister really think things are going?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222138	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222140	I certainly do not think that our welfare society is perfect. I'm never gonna say that. I think that what is really our big challenge, if I am to put it a little bit at the forefront, is that the less you depend on our welfare society, the easier it is to navigate around in, for example, if you only have to use a day care institution or a school or something else. But the more social problems you have and the more challenges you have, the harder the citizens at least find that our welfare society is to navigate. So there is a lot that does not work, not least for the most socially vulnerable. I would like to add an area and a group very close to my heart, namely the children. These are the children who are not placed outside the home, although they should. The children who go to bed tonight in a family where there is violence, where there is abuse and perhaps even worse, where Mom and Dad are unable to do the job, and where we as a society are not doing it either. It's a double failure, and it's happening right now while we're in this floor. It's a great, great pain.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222241	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222244	Thank you for your answer. I know the Prime Minister calls himself the Prime Minister of the children. But when you see, as I mention, these cases from Langeland, where you can actually be in doubt whether there has been any hold at all that some of these children have been removed; when you look at the handicap area, where there are simply municipalities that are almost speculating about not giving people with disabilities what they are entitled to and need; when you look at a family-based system where people lose their children on the basis of others' lies; and when you see some job centres that I mentioned, which whip sick and worn-out and vulnerable people around the system, then I simply cannot understand why you do not ensure that you get the coal-grave housing area, move the handicap area out of the municipalities, change the family system and why you do not get those job centres closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222331	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222332	Well, it sounds like there's a potential for cooperation in this area, also across the middle of politics. And it will never happen that, as the Prime Minister of the country, I stand on this platform and claim that something will work if it does not. That's never gonna happen. And I do not think we are good enough in the specialized social field. I do not think that all our older people still have the dignified old age that they should have. I know and it's the biggest pain for me that there are still children in this country who are being seriously neglected, without society intervening, or doing everything, too late. So there are plenty of challenges in the social field. Of course, the prerequisite for us to be able to solve them at all is that we give priority to our welfare society. We don't agree on that, unfortunately. But money doesn't solve all the problems, even in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222421	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222425	Thank you. In connection with the fact that we are today a number of blue politicians who have asked about the government's inequality-building policy, the Prime Minister here in the concluding speech welcomed the bourgeois in a universe we have been for decades, it was to be understood as a universe of preoccupation with inequality. But I think it is rather a universe of hypocrisy and electoral deception, for that is what it is. After all, it is not the rest of us who have chosen less inequality and who have created more inequality. Well, leave it alone. After all, we have been around the case of Claus Hjort Frederiksen in various connections. What was actually the main message of my speech was not so much whether you should have confidence or not in the National Attorney's Office.I think you should... but more, that the whole case starts with the scandalous repatriation of the entire FE management. You can't use hindsight for much, but I really just want to hear the Prime Minister, whether the Prime Minister, in the light of hindsight, will not admit that it was actually a mistake to bring back the entire FE leadership and that it threw them into the crisis they have been in since.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222531	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222533	After all, there were some very, very harsh words from supervision back then, which I find difficult to see a minister should not react on the basis of. Then I thought it was right to have it verified. It turned out, of course, that an independent investigation came up with a different result, which is then dealt with. I understand that there is the estimate in relation to inequality that has come, including from the Ministry of Finance, which, of course, most of all, one can say, is based on such a technical presentation of inequality. There are, for example: what several parties have wanted, namely that more people should have access to dental care. It's not included if I get it right. That doesn't count in the record. If there's anything that gives you inequality today, it's bad teeth. Therefore, when we observe inequality, we have to look at it all the way around. For all of us in here know that it also has a social battle side, who has the worst lives health-wise. So when we take some initiatives that maybe in a spreadsheet give more inequality, but then give more equality somewhere else, then it would probably be most correct to have all aspects before we pass judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222654	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222656	If we start with the FE case, then I also hope that the Prime Minister is impressed by the fact that former prime ministers and former department heads have criticised the government's handling, that is to say that it should have been examined and brought down internally. I hope that criticism makes an impression. In relation to the discussion on inequality, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that if we are to create a better Denmark, we need to implement initiatives that increase inequality. I have meant this politically for many years, and that is what the Prime Minister is arguing for. What I think is particularly serious about government policy is not that it has increased inequality, but it is that it has made the poor poorer. I would just like to know whether the Prime Minister intends to continue with a policy that makes the poorest in Denmark even poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222732	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222733	But when we talk about both equality and inequality, it doesn't matter what we're talking about. Now we return again to the increased taxes on cigarettes. It is no secret that I originally opposed it, actually on the basis of the arguments put forward by Mr. Alex Vanopslagh is presenting today. I was afraid of a side of battle. I've let myself be convinced. By the way, I am also a relative of my own in the field of cancer. These cigarettes are killing, and it is therefore wise that we in this House agree to take various initiatives to reduce the number of smokers in Denmark for the sake of the smokers themselves, because it is dangerous and because it kills. It is too trivial to look at it from a Gini coefficient if, with the increased taxes on cigarettes, we actually save some lives and prolong some lives and make some lives better. Once again, an appeal for us to include all the nuances in this discussion as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222834	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222838	Thank you. In his opening speech, the Prime Minister said that the capital investment could help finance the 5,000 DKK. extra that the government wants to give to the poorest pensioners. I would now like to know whether it would be possible to imagine that capital expenditure could be the 64 billion. kr. has been set aside for more and wider motorways, which we know will strain the climate both during the construction and operation phase.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222920	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523222921	But this is where we have to deal with an obvious dilemma. We've put very, very high climate ambitions in this country. We agree across the board that we will be a significant country into the green transition. And then we also have a daily life that must be linked for the Danes. In some parts of Denmark public transport is just outside the door; it is easy to get around and take advantage of public transport. In some places in Denmark you can easily cycle to and from work and school. And then there is another Denmark where the distances are longer and where it is not uncommon to drive 100 km to take care of a job. I am pleased that we are able to deal with both issues and, of course, to have an infrastructure plan, yes, where we are also developing our road network and our infrastructure, so we are sure that the areas in Denmark are linked and that the Danes can also do their job. And for some it requires a car.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223014	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223016	It is clear that we have areas in the country where you will continue to need to drive a car, and there we actually have a good example from North Jutland today, where you use much more co-driving than in the rest of the country. North Jutland is an area where many people live outside of public transport. So there are, of course, some opportunities to help development in a green direction, among others. with co-driving, but of course also by getting more of the people who have quite a short distance to work but who also use the roads, from cars to bicycles or to public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223056	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223057	Well, I agree with that. I actually think that many Danes are fresh also in new ways to be transported: drive together, maybe drive to somewhere, park the car and then take the public traffic. The type of solutions that we also know from other major cities will of course also come more around Denmark and Denmark. We just have to remember, and the questioner knows this with his geographical background, that although we are so small a country, the geographical differences are still huge. And they've gotten bigger, too, because when I was a kid in North Jutland, the city bus, the bus, really, drove a lot of places. So it does not do so to the same extent, so people have actually become more dependent on their cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223145	The next brief remark is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223148	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the speech; also thank you for the speech this morning when the Prime Minister mentioned that we have not had such growth since Poul Nyrup Rasmussen was in power. This means that the wheels in Denmark are working very, very well. Now, however, it is also the case that it appears that there is a very extensive distrust in Denmark. 52% It is a fact that women between the ages of 16 and 24 are under stress, that is to say, hundreds of thousands. What do we think the Prime Minister should do about this growing misfortune? And does the Prime Minister think that this is a necessary consequence of this high growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223233	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223235	No, I do not think so if nothing else, so because it would have completely incalculable consequences if one agreed to it. In other words, if we were to imagine that we would enter not only a recession, but a stagflation, i.e. minus growth combined with inflation, we would be so explosively exposed, not only in the Danish economy, but it would also apply everywhere else. What is usually happening when the wheels are not working is that the bill always lands with some before it lands with others, that is, with those who are at the top of our labour market, that is, with young people who cannot get in there, those who may have the least skills. Unemployment, which is the companion of non-existent growth, always hits at a social disadvantage. So I really think that we should have as our ambition to do something else: this time growth in a way that is sustainable social, but also very green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223338	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223339	Well, the question is, how do we do it, because these are quite ordinary women between 16 and 24 years of age, where every five of them in the last 14 days have been very unhappy or depressed or depressed. After all, they are not on the edge of the labour market. This is really, very many ordinary Danes who have huge, huge distrust in our education system, in our labour market. Since 2008, twice as many women have felt very unhappy and depressed and depressed in the last 14 days. What will the Prime Minister do about it? Does the Prime Minister not think that this is a totally unacceptable consequence of a growing society, which should actually be something more pleasant to live in for the most people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223431	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223432	I think it is not good; it is not now for all the people it affects and for the families around them, but it is not in the long term. However, I think it would be wrong to draw the conclusion that it is because our economy is well. It is quite right to point out that the group that really seems to have some of the greatest challenges in terms of basic well-being and well-being is our children and young people, who are not even yet part of the labour market and therefore not within the cycle described here. There we will have the courage to look at our entire education system and perhaps also what I tried to say before, namely that childhood has become much, much shorter in Denmark, both because of the way we train and because of the way we organize our institutions and schools and probably also a little because of the social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223525	Speaking time has not become longer or shorter, but nevertheless I have a strong appeal to everyone to keep to the speaking time, because there is an enormous amount of questioning for the Prime Minister. So when I get up, it is because time is advanced, both for the questioner and for the Minister. Now it's sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, the Moderates, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223545	Thank you. The Prime Minister brought to the debate the FE case and the case of a good colleague in this Chamber. I therefore share the Prime Minister's view that it is an accident that this matter is unsolved; it raises some major questions of principle. I also share the view that, in isolation, there has not been any political intervention in the case of the former Minister for Defence. I feel quite comfortable with that, even after being informed of everything, including the original substance of the matter. But I think perhaps the Prime Minister should reflect a little on his own responsibility. I mean, my own experience and now, of course, I have to be careful that I don't mess up myself with any things... after knowing the case quite well is that the government, by mistake or incompetence, or whatever words you want to use, has knocked over a domino briquette that has brought all sorts of other people with it... here in the end also a domino briquette, where it says Claus Hjort Frederiksen. Isolatedly, it is quite fine, I have no mistrust of the Attorney General; I would also, if it came to that, for that reason, of course, vote in favour of the waiver of immunity. But couldn't the Prime Minister reflect a little on whether this case in its origins was wisely handled by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223704	No, I don't think the Prime Minister should. For many different reasons, and not least for the work of our intelligence services, it is a matter that is difficult to discuss in public. I understand that from the media and journalists and others there is a very, very great interest in and around. This is, in fact, one of the most obvious dilemmas of democracy in this time, i.e. that if we want to take proper care of our democracy, it requires that we have skilled intelligence services and skilled intelligence services require confidentiality, which means that no, there are things we cannot discuss, neither here in the Assembly Chamber nor in the public. I'm afraid that, and I'm not saying that in relation to Mr. Knox. Lars Løkke Rasmussen that the debate that has been going on for some time is itself being challenged, and I am concerned about that, because an intelligence service can only work if there is confidentiality about its work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223803	Sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223805	Well, I agree with that, and that is exactly what will then become the government's own dilemma. A moment ago, the Prime Minister said that there were harsh allegations from independent supervision, and that had to be responded to. Well, that's kind of what's accusing me of, isn't it, sir? Claus Hjort Frederiksen also ends up with a problem because he quite rightly enters into a debate with the government. For the government, as in the past, is fully aware of what is up and down in that case, fully aware that when claims come from independent supervision, do they hold? There the government chooses what I think is unmanageable to hang out all the dirty laundry with the consequence that there is also a former defence minister who stumbles in it. Then the Prime Minister will not go into that. Can I ask you something else very briefly? After all, the Minister of Justice really chooses to launch a kind of negotiation with the Folketing. He says: I am the mind to raise an indictment and follow the Attorney General's indictment, if otherwise the Folketing wishes to waive immunity. After all, he makes it a negotiation issue. Was it wisely handled? Shouldn't he have said more clearly: I want to indict? Shouldn't the government have put the case in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223910	Thank you. I call the Prime Minister. Speaking time has been spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523223919	It really seems to me to be very natural that it is not the government that can waive the immunity of members of parliament, but the Folketing that discusses it with the parties of the Folketing, just as has been done in other cases. I simply have no memory that a matter has been politicised to the extent that it is here. This is not the first time that immunity has been waived. This case is unique, I admit, but neither the government nor the Folketing are prosecutors and can go into the issue of guilt. I don't think that's our thing at all, and it's certainly not mine. I am also pleased to hear that there are wise voices, including those of the blue parties, which today state that immunity would have been waived.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224008	The next brief remark is to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224011	Thank you. And thank you for the Prime Minister's speech. The compulsory distribution of children in primary school does not, of course, take up much in the speech of the Prime Minister or perhaps even of the children's prime minister, and that is why the question is actually: is it, because it is only the position of the Social Democratic Party, that children should be given compulsory distribution in primary school, or is it also the Prime Minister's? And if that is only the position of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask the President of the Social Democratic Party how many children are being forced into primary school?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224049	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224050	It is not the government's view that someone should be forced to distribute, nor is it the Social Democratic Party, but we are faced with a dilemma here, and I actually agree with my predecessor that it is as if it has become a little harder to discuss those obvious dilemmas. I do not think it is a good idea that we have primary schools in Denmark, where 90%. of the children are bilingual and have ethnic minority backgrounds. And as one said very wisely years ago: how should one ever be integrated into a majority culture if there is no majority culture to be integrated into? The reality is that for 40 years the problems of integration have been allowed to grow far too large, and we have to rectify that. But if, for the sake of those children, we could not, for the sake of coherence, we could not, for the sake of our country, try quietly to discuss how to ensure that our primary and secondary schools reflect the society that is, instead of just allowing an ethnic division to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224148	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224150	Thank you. I was very happy to hear that. But just to make it clear: does this mean that the Prime Minister can guarantee that the Prime Minister will not put forward the Socialist rapporteur's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224205	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224207	A debate has been opened by a Social Democratic MP, and this is a necessary debate. We do not have a plan to put it forward as it stands, but we will have to discuss it with each other, because if we do not do something in the area of day-care, school, youth education and housing policy, then we will have an increasingly ethnically divided Denmark. And I think it is a pity for the children, and not least, I would like to say, it is a pity for the girls who are going to a high school today or to a primary school where there is so strong and so much social control that they can never really become Danes to say it as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224240	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224245	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the speech and for the answer. I would like to pursue the lead that Mr. Thomas Danielsen moved down, in relation to the compulsory distribution of primary school pupils. We can understand from the Minister for Education that there is a plan coming from the government before the summer holidays. Therefore, I would just like to ask the Prime Minister a simple question: can the Prime Minister guarantee that there are no families with children in Denmark who will see their free school elections cut?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224316	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224317	I can say that we are not yet clarified as a government about what we think is the right thing to do in this area, because it is very dilemmaous. I am not sure that we have the definitive answers, but I can see that there is an unsolved task. And I would not recommend that the problems that have been created over many decades in my view, failed integration policy, be allowed to continue. An ethnically divided Denmark is untenable. It is in day care, it is in school, it is in residential areas. If we accept that, we will be a different country from what we want to be. Because if we don't meet each other, if we don't know each other, there's no cohesion. I do not claim that this is easy, but I cannot actually understand that a large party that wants to be government-supporting can simply put the problems aside. I do not claim that the model chosen in the field of high school is an amazing model, but I can see that things that are happening today are certainly not fantastic either. At least some parties are trying to find solutions. I just think it would be nice for the Left to enter into that discussion instead of what I think we are experiencing a little too often, for why that confrontation? We have a huge problem that we need to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224434	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224435	The Left would very much like to find solutions. We just don't want to punch children and young people in the forehead with their parents' income. And since the Prime Minister would not answer the first question, whether a guarantee could be given to the families of children, I would like to follow up and ask: can the Prime Minister guarantee the families of children that there will not be a new system of pupil distribution in the primary school area, where pupils will be distributed based on parents' income?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224500	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224502	As I said before, we are not resolved with ourselves in government on how we deal with this issue. But I was about to say: there was once a time when the Left itself is continuing to return to this agreement in the field of high school. There was a time when the Left also cared about whether there were high schools in all parts of Denmark. Some of the high schools at risk of closure are Bjerringbro, Fjerritslev, Faaborg, Maribo, Morsø. If we don't take responsibility from in here to make sure there's a student base for those high schools, we risk them closing down. What do we think it'll be like in Fjerritslev if high school closes? Then I'm afraid Fjerritslev is closing, and this government doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224540	The next brief remark is to Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224543	Thank you for that, and I would like to thank the Prime Minister for saying here in the final debate that it requires both prevention, that it requires early action and that better efforts and better treatment are needed if we are to combat distrust and provide better help for those who suffer from a mental illness. I would like to thank you for that. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister if that too, if we are to look at it so broadly, requires an inter-ministerial effort, i.e. that it requires both an effort from the Ministry of Children and Education, from the Ministry of Social Affairs and from the Ministry of Health and probably also other ministries, if we really are going around this huge health crisis we have, where too many are going too hard?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224633	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224634	Yes, I agree with that and how nice it is that we can have the discussion. Because I think it is a little embarrassing that when I try to spread it out and say that there is also something about prevention and some general social trends, it is interpreted as if I just think that children should go to the FDF and then there are no problems. Why do we have to argue with each other in this way, and why do we have to argue with each other? We have psychiatric disorders in Denmark that cannot be prevented. There are some that you have from birth, there are some that you get along the way and that you cannot prevent, but we know very well in here that there are some of the children and young people who have very, very serious scars on their souls, are at a huge risk of developing psychiatric disorders as well. It could be that we had to secure a society where fewer of those scars come on that soul. It is also prevention that there is time for proper relationships, to seize the child or young person before the problems are allowed to grow so large that you may need treatment. So just thank you that today we are actually going to be very happy about it here at its almost 22nd year here in the house... can discuss something substantial, including in a final debate. I think it would be good if we actually did it a little more often. But I agree with the question, that is to say, it has to be cross-cutting.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224747	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224749	Thank you. In the government's proposal for a health reform, where we have negotiated part of it, but not all of it in place yet, it is also linked here with well-being and mental health that young people have to drink less, that they have to smoke less, that they have to exercise something more and that they have to eat something healthier, and I really think that is to enshrine this miserable agenda quite incredibly much. And that is actually why my appeal is that we should now look at things a lot. Because otherwise we won't solve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224821	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224823	I agree with that. And in reality, the health discussion is almost always simplistic, and to make it even more complicated, there is a lot of research that suggests that the stronger a network you have, the better relations you have, the more likely you are to get through a disease course, whether it is in one way or another. So there are a lot of things that help determine whether we become patients, including our growing up conditions, including our living conditions, whether we are safe or insecure, what kind of welfare society we have, and what kind of family relations we have, what kind of childhood we have had. It all plays a role, and it also does so in relation to whether or not we actually survive, i.e. the probability of survival if we become seriously ill. So it's complex, and it would be really wise to come all around.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224908	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224911	Thank you for two really good speeches, and I look forward very much to your government coming with your 2030 plan, which is why I also pointed out when the Prime Minister said that it will be a tight 2030 plan, and the Prime Minister also said that there will be historically few money left for new welfare improvements and, in general, for new initiatives. I fully understand that there is not much money in the box, but whether there is any money to make new initiatives is something we choose in here on the basis of the decisions we make. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: why choose to make a tight 2030 plan? Why not choose to make a 2030 plan that allows for a boost for children and young people and that bats something?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224953	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523224954	But we can do that, too. This requires that we give priority to something else down and/or make reforms that make us more room for manoeuvre, and I think we will have to do both. Because I think none of the roads will give us enough if we really want to invest in our children and young people. I have become increasingly hardcore about my view of bureaucracy in the public sector. There are so few examples I have been convinced of are necessary, and I am probably one of those in here today who are willing to go the longest in the deregulation of the public sector, because I believe so basically that the most important thing about people is relations, and what has become too little time for in the public sector today is actually that. That is why I am willing both to challenge, but also to challenge another way, i.e. if we could not do without some of the things that educators and nurses and schoolteachers and others spend time on today, so that we could actually create a society and a welfare society, where it is the relationship that comes to the heart, not all the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225057	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225058	I very much agree with that, and I look forward to it continuing the discussion. I am perhaps just a little surprised that the Prime Minister himself says in his speech today that, although the 2030 plan is tight, one will show the way to create a green space. Why not do the same with children and young people? Well, what's the difference? Is it because the Prime Minister thinks that children and young people are not important enough to say it already now, or is it because we have not pressured the Prime Minister enough to do so, or vice versa: what does it really take for the Prime Minister himself to play out with a plan where you can see it? And we can just call it the Children's Young Council Room, or whatever the Prime Minister wants. Shouldn't we make a 2030 plan from the start, where we can show the way to do something for children and young people who bat, so that it doesn't just become the small steps?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225144	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225145	Yes, but it is rarely that simple, because we also have a very, very large proportion of our population, who are older. And I think that in many places we have good care for the elderly, and I would like to say that it is all about the fact that there are very, very large parts of our welfare society that work better than what we often hear about. There are miracles being created there every day, but the elderly area is also important, so is the handicap area, and so are the most socially vulnerable adult Danes. So what we want in a 2030 plan and in general is that we need to give greater priority to our security, there must be a green space for manoeuvre, and then there must be room for our welfare society to develop, not only in relation to children and young people, but broader.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225229	The next brief remark is to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225232	Thank you. The green transition has come to stay, and that is a good thing, because it means that we need to take care of our climate, the environment and so on, and, at the same time, we need to become involved in creating more growth. The green tax reform has now started, and that is also good, and it is then that we can say that the specific issues are also beginning to arise. There I have noted that it has been said clearly and clearly that, for example, we are not going to be able to do so. Aalborg Portland should not be chased out of the country, and I think that is good too. Then there has just been an appearance, for example. from Danish Gartneri, who produces some of the world's very best vegetables, flowers, etc. They also want the green transition, but they say: then give us the tools to do so. So what I want to say is to ask the Prime Minister to put some words into this situation and to ensure that technology development is balanced, while at the same time getting it in place, so as to understand that it is only necessary to impose specific requirements on implementation when it is that technology development is there so that they can implement it out there in practice. Does the Prime Minister agree with this, so that we can also ensure that the example is now just the horticultural sector that we are not just introducing a new PRS tax or something else that is starting to chase our Danish horticultures out into the world? Does the Prime Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225351	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225353	If we take it from the top down, I would say that I think it is important that we have our own food production. I basically like that we can supply ourselves, i.e. have an agricultural production, have our horticulture, and have our dairies, and have everything that ensures that we can feed ourselves, both because I like the identity as a country, but also because I know that if we can't do it ourselves, we'll just import it from somewhere else, and there will CO2 So I basically agree that we have to maintain a production in Denmark, and we can also set up a CO2 On the other hand, I'm not quite sure that I agree that it's us from here that have to provide all the solutions. Because I would like to have reciprocity, i.e. where the companies themselves are also involved in the technological development of research and collaboration with other companies, what a number of Danish companies are doing. I think that when you get around Danish companies today, you see how far many of them are advanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225459	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225500	Thanks for that so far, so good. We fully agree that it is not from in here that all the solutions should be made, because we cannot. We must, of course, provide opportunities for them to develop the solutions. For example: I also had a visit to my small office today by the University of Copenhagen, which works with research and development of it, and they also say: Well, just make sure you get some more money off for research, so you can develop these technologies. But in order to clarify that now the speaking time is short in the second round, does the Prime Minister not agree that you have to look into reality and ensure that there are no technology solutions available before you tell them to do so? Otherwise, it will end up in the hunting of jobs, for example. In this situation, the market gardeners, out, and I can hear that we agree that we should not do that, and I think that is a good thing. So can we clarify a little about this: that technology development and solutions must be there before implementation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225546	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225548	In other words, what we basically want with a green tax reform is to ensure that Danish industry, Danish production and afterwards Danish agriculture are converted to produce climate-friendly and decently, and we know that some companies are easier to adapt to change. There are also those who are ahead of that transition and that there are other companies that have more difficulty adjusting, and all these balances and considerations must be taken into account in the negotiations. What is crucial, I think, is that the conclusion should be written in advance. We need CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225619	The next brief remark is to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225623	Our common welfare helps to make the individual stronger, our society stronger. The fact that generations before us decided that getting a light bill or being affected by illness should not mean being left behind has helped to increase economic security and is absolutely crucial to whether we have economic security in Denmark. And that goal should be something where we do not have to bow to each other, but actually stand side by side. We stood side by side with the harsh criticism we had of the former bourgeois government when they, with reforms, threw thousands of people into poverty, including more children than adults, and in which the Prime Minister said: "What matters must be whether we get a prime minister in Denmark who intends to do something about child poverty...And I will,...'. We turned it a year ago into the final debate, but we are simply asking again now when the government's own financial statement shows how the groups and especially the families of children in the low-income groups are being hit very hard. Nevertheless, we are currently in negotiations on a new performance reform in which virtually nothing is happening. That is why I would like to ask whether the State Minster can guarantee that we have an agreement before we go on summer vacation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225742	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225743	After all, it is difficult to issue guarantees on behalf of others, and that does not only require two to a tango; it requires more parties to a majority in this Chamber. I would say that the best way to combat child poverty is to get Mom and Dad to work. It is a link with the labour market that is crucial. Moreover, it is not only in relation to the economy; it is also often in relation to the conditions of upbringing in general. And if we zoom in on it, it has actually been possible in recent years to bring a significant number of children's families from cash benefits into the labour market. It's really, really positive, and in my view it's one of the most important victories, it's not told so much, but it's one of the most important victories of these years. I know, and we know that if you grow up in a childhood where there is too little money, it can have some really serious consequences, and that is why we are still open and away to discuss whether we can do something targeted the children, but our attitude in relation to such just generally setting up all services knows Enhedslisten also well. But if we can find a way to do something targeted for the children, we would like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225851	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225853	But right now, the government has a fantastic open window. We have had the evaluation of the temporary family allowance, which was one of the first things we agreed on together and which shows precisely that the fact that you have better living conditions actually has a positive influence, so that you look for work. We have the most up-to-date statistics right now, and they show that people are going to work, despite the fact that we have actually set up some of the children's families' rates. This means that unemployment is also falling among unskilled people and among some of them with the lowest incomes, because there are some employers who want them. And that is why I would like to hear: will we get that reform in place before summer holidays? Otherwise, and this is how I see it, we are going to have a direct breach of promise, because it is both something the government has promised and one of the most central points of the understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225942	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523225943	Well, I think we should negotiate with a view to making an agreement with each other, that is what I think of all the outstanding issues that we still have, and that list is almost endless when it comes to Danish politics, but there are still things that remain in this parliamentary term. And so it is true that, a few years ago, we jointly chose a temporary family allowance. On the other hand, it was said that it would certainly mean that there would be people who would then not get to work, that is, as I remember the discussion. And it is quite true that, despite the temporary family allowances, there are a great many people both with original Danish background and ethnic minority background who have come into work and thus got out of the cash benefits system, and it is an important knowledge to carry on in the political debate. However, I hope that, in focusing on the challenges that are, we also remember to rejoice at how many children have been moved out of that group with absolutely low income to a life where mother or father or both are in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230042	Then there is time for a final set of brief comments, and that is for Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230047	Thank you. I was surprised, but also glad, when I heard how much our older people filled in the Prime Minister's New Year's speech, but I was also a little disappointed that it almost didn't fill in the speeches that the Prime Minister has made today, because I had hoped that the Prime Minister could give me some peace of mind because I am walking around and worried about the free choice of our elderly, which they are using to a great extent in this area. The government made these welfare municipalities at a time when three municipalities were given the opportunity to deprive the elderly of free choice. They were given the opportunity, and now they want to spread this out, giving all 98 municipalities the opportunity to apply to become welfare municipalities, but they do not want to create a so-called fence stake, which fences the fact that the elderly must be guaranteed a free choice. You make a fence post saying that there must be an elderly council, that you must not dispense with the rules on the use of force, etc. Why don't you make a fence stake about the free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230144	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230145	Well, I might as well say this as it is: I am crazy about the free choice in the area of the elderly. I am. I have no wish whatsoever that any politician anywhere should define what is right for people in their lives. I think there are large parts of our older area, both public and private, that work well. It's important for me to say. Anything else would not be fair to the people who work hard, the relatives who help, and the elderly whom it is all about. Much works well, but there's also a lot that doesn't work. The fact that you can choose for yourself is not something that has to disappear because you get old, that is, that's the way we live our lives. So I am basically a strong supporter of free choice. I am not so happy with the bureaucracy it brings with it, just as I am not happy with bureaucracy when it comes to measuring their bmi or anything else that we demand. Then we can find a way to get rid of bureaucracy and still have a free choice, we would very much like to be involved in discussing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230242	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230244	However, it is strange that the Prime Minister loves free elections in the area of the elderly, but has an elderly minister who presents a draft agreement which envisages allowing municipalities to restrict free elections. We bourgeois parties are praying on our knees to bring in a principle that guarantees the free choice of the elderly. It is almost four out of ten Danes who today choose to have a private player deliver their home care. Can the Prime Minister give an assurance to the elderly that in future they will also have the opportunity to make a free choice, that is to say that the free choice, which everyone else appreciates in the course of life, must of course also be given when one grows old?
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230320	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230321	Well, I thought K stood for Conservatives. Now it is both too dear and too hugging and too kneeling, and I would say that if we are down to the knees of the Conservatives, I think we should discuss it in the negotiations. We have no desire to put an end to free elections... nothing! I am basically in favour of free elections and want everyone in our welfare societies to be free to choose. I just want to get rid of the bureaucracy. And what we must at least be honest about is that the more fence posts that come into these agreements in the area of children, in school, in the area of the elderly, the more bureaucracy and the less freedom. But we'll see if we can't find a balance, especially if you've gone all the way down to your knees. We can't have that. That's where we're gonna get you guys out of, I guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230403	Thank you, Prime Minister. And normally I would say that no more people have asked for the floor, but there is a great deal of it. I can say that there are at least 12 members of the Folketing who would also have liked to speak to the debate here, but the time has been agreed in advance, which is why, unfortunately, there is no time for any more brief remarks. We say that the debate is closed and we shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230426	The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 92 by Rasmus Stoklund (S), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Mai Villadsen (EL), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL and ALT), against voting 42 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Liselott Blixt (UFG), abstention 1 (M). Proposal for adoption No V 92 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 93 by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB), Alex Vanopslagh (LA), Naser Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG), proposal for adoption No. V 94 by Mr Morten Messerschmidt (DF), motion for a resolution No. V 95 by Mrs Susanne Zimmer (FG) and motion for a resolution No. V 96 by Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220523230557	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday 2 June 2022 at 2 pm. 10. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
